This case involved a belted driver responding to a far side (right) impact with another passenger vehicle. This crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a six-lane, divided, urban street. There were three lanes for travel in each direction, and a dedicated left turn, divided by a raised curb median. The crash site was located just north of an intersection and there was a gas station driveway along the west (right) roadside. The straight roadway had a negative grade for southbound traffic. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the afternoon, weekday crash. The case vehicle, vehicle 1 (V1), a 2000 Chevrolet Cavalier 4-door sedan, was traveling southbound in the number-three lane (left). V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and driver and passenger frontal impact air bags. The 25-year-old, male driver ( case subject/sole occupant) was determined to have been using the belt restraint by other than physical evidence. The opposing vehicle, vehicle 2 (V2), a 1992 Ford Mustang 2-door coupe, was traveling southbound in the number-one lane (right), and to the rear of V1. The driver of V1 determined to make a right turn from the southbound number-three lane into a gas station driveway along the west (right) roadside, crossing southbound lanes two and one. V1 crossed the southbound number-one lane into V2's path and the front of V2 struck the right side of V1, rear of the B-pillar. The impact rotated V1 180-degrees clockwise, abruptly, as it was deflected to the southwest; making contact a second time with V2. V1's left rear wheel struck the west, raised, curb and a similar sized planter-box wall as it spun to its final rest, straddling the narrow planter-box facing east. V2 came to rest, still within the southbound number-one lane, just south of the point of impact facing south. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The driver of V1 (subject) was transported to a trauma facility due to "B" injuries as rated by police. The driver of V2 was not transported.