This case involved a belted driver of a large sport utility vehicle responding to a head-on collision (frontal impact with another passenger vehicle) with frontal impact air bag deployment, and the front right seat passenger of the smaller, opposing vehicle responding to the impact also with frontal impact air bag deployment. This crash occurred on a two-lane, east/west street traveling through a commercial/residential area. There was a single lane for traffic in each direction separated by a painted dashed yellow line. The roadway was straight and level. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the dusk (daylight) weekend crash. The case vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Lincoln Navigator, 4-door SUV, was traveling eastbound. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts, driver and front row passenger frontal impact air bags, and first row seat back mounted side impact air bags. The 56-year-old male driver (case subject) was determined to have been using the belt restraint based on physical evidence. The additional 10-year-old female front right seat passenger was also determined to have been using the belt restraint. The opposing vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Ford Mustang, 2-door convertible, was traveling westbound. V2 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row driver and passenger frontal impact air bags. The driver was using the belt restraint, as were the front right seat 21-year-old female occupant (case subject # 2) and the second row right side 22-year-old male passenger. A third vehicle three (V3), a 1997 Saturn SL2, 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound to the rear of V1 with a close proximity. The driver was the sole occupant of V3. As V1 and V3 proceeded eastbound, the driver of V2 pulled out from behind a line of slow moving westbound vehicles in front of him and attempted to pass them in the eastbound lane. The driver of V2 had immediately realized that he would not be able to successfully pass the slower moving vehicles and applied his brakes hard, locking them up and sliding up to the impact. The driver (subject) of V1 observed this and had only enough time to begin steering to the right and getting his foot to the brake before the front of V1 struck the front of V2 in a head-on collision. V1's frontal impact air bags and the front right seat back mounted side impact air bag deployed. V2's frontal impact air bags deployed. The impact caused the vehicles to each pivot clockwise around their front ends while their rear ends came up off of the ground. V3 ran into the back right undercarriage area with its front. V1 continued rotating clockwise (approximately 120-degrees in all) and came to rest facing southwest within one meter of the point of impact. V2 rotated approximately 80-degrees clockwise and came to rest facing northwest within one meter of the point of impact. V3 came to rest at the point of its, minor, impact with V1. All three vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The subject (V1 driver) was transported to a trauma facility due to 'severe' injury(s) while V1's front right seat passenger was transported due to fractured bones in the right foot, a lacerated lip and abdominal contusions. The three occupants of V2 were all transported due to 'severe' injury(s). The front right seat passenger of V2 was also a case subject.