This case involved an unbelted male driver responding to a frontal impact with a slower moving heavy truck with airbag deployment. This crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a multi-lane, divided interstate. There were six lanes of travel for southbound traffic divided from northbound traffic by a concrete barrier. The roadway had a slight right curvature and positive grade for southbound traffic. The weather was cloudy but the concrete roadway dry during the early morning (dark, not lit) weekday crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2003 Nissan 350Z, 3-door hatchback) was traveling southbound, uphill, in the number two lane at an unknown speed (moderately high, based on vehicle damage and interview). V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts (pretensioners) and driver and passenger frontal impact air bags. The 37-year-old male driver (subject, sole occupant) was not using the belt restraint. The opposing vehicle (V2, 1989 Peterbilt tractor pulling one trailer) was traveling southbound in the number two lane at a police reported (estimated) 40 kmph. V2 was transporting asphalt. The driver of V1 recalled that as he approached the slower moving vehicle he noticed a vehicle to his right merging onto the interstate. He diverted his attention and checked traffic to his left in consideration of changing lanes to that direction. When he looked back toward the roadway he was upon the truck. There was no physical evidence of an avoidance maneuver. The front of V1 struck the rear of V2 and under-rode the rear "bumper" (as described in the police report). V1's frontal impact air bags deployed. V1 continued forward a few meters as the truck/trailer continued southbound. V1 became dislodged from under V2 and came to rest in the number two lane facing southeast. V2 continued slowly to the right shoulder and came to a controlled stop. NOTE: Once the crash had stabilized (V1 at rest, V2 stopped on shoulder) another southbound vehicle struck the right rear quarter panel and wheel of V1 with its front plane. This subsequent, separate, event did not cause additional injury to the subject. V1 was towed from the scene due to disabling damage, V2 was driven away. The driver of V1 (subject) was transported to a trauma facility with 'severe' injuries, as rated by police.