This case involves driver who was not wearing the seatbelt responding to a front left corner impact with frontal impact air bag(s) deployment. This single vehicle crash occurred at the 3-way intersection of a nine-lane, divided, trafficway. The east/west trafficway had three lanes for through travel in each direction divided by a wide, raised curb median. The eastbound side also had two designated left turn lanes and a dedicated right turn lane. From the eastbound approach to the intersection there was a traffic island that separated the two designated left turn lanes from the eastbound thru-lanes. On that island was located a 25cm steel, non-breakaway, traffic light pole. The intersection was controlled by tri-color traffic signals for three directions. The eastbound lanes were straight with a negative grade. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the evening (dark, street lights), weekday crash. The case vehicle, a 1999 Mazda Protégé 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound in the number four lane (left most thru lane). The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and driver and passenger frontal impact air bags. The 72-year-old female driver (case subject/sole occupant) was not using the belt restraint. As the driver came down the long hill, she began to lose consciousness due to a pre-existing medical condition (diabetic). As the vehicle neared the island, within the intersection, the driver allowed the vehicle to drive off of the roadway to the left and onto the island. The front left of the vehicle struck the non-breakaway pole in an extreme left off-set (corner) type collision. The vehicle's driver and passenger frontal impact air bag deployed. The vehicle rotated counterclockwise approximately 80-degrees as it rebounded away from the pole. The vehicle came to rest facing the pole (north) straddling the island and the number three lane. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage and the driver (subject) was transported to a trauma facility due to "A" injuries as rated by police.