This case involves the belted 48-year-old male driver of a passenger car responding to a near side, non-horizontal, upward impact with a boulder. The subject sustained serious injury as a result. This single vehicle crash occurred on the eastbound side of a four-lane, divided, interstate traveling through rural, mountainous terrain. There were two lanes for travel in each direction divided by natural terrain. For eastbound traffic there was a gradual downgrade and right curve. The left (north) roadside consisted of a narrow gravel shoulder followed by a water runoff ditch and then the natural median. There were small metal mileage marker posts situated on the median shoulder. The right (south) roadside consisted of a curb followed by a narrow gravel shoulder and a steep downward embankment made up of large boulders. There was a dry creek bed at the bottom of the approximate 15m embankment. The weather was clear and bituminous roadway dry during the afternoon, weekend crash. The case vehicle (2007 Toyota Camry, 4-door sedan) was traveling eastbound. The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts, first row seat back mounted side impact air bags and left and right roof rail mounted 'curtain' air bags. The 48-year-old male driver (case subject) was using the belt restraint as evidenced by its post-crash condition. There was another occupant aboard. A 5-year-old female was seated in the 2nd row, right side seat using the available lap and shoulder belt, no child safety seat. The subject allowed the vehicle to drift off of the roadway to the left (north) onto the gravel shoulder. The vehicle struck down a flat metal reflector post with its front, as the subject responded by steering the vehicle to the right in an effort to regain the roadway. The vehicle began an ever-increasing clockwise yaw, and the subject began braking as the vehicle re-entered the roadway, striking down another reflector post with its left side. The vehicle slid across the roadway and off of the opposite side. The vehicle struck down a 13x13cm wooden sign post with its left rear door area as it launched off of the steep embankment. The vehicle listed to the left as it lost altitude and the left sill, undercarriage and front door area struck the ground (large boulder) first. The vehicle had not yet rotated 90-degrees about its longitudinal axis upon first impact. It is unknown when the subject's seat back mounted side impact air bag and the left side 'curtain' bag both deployed. The vehicle continued to over-turn to the left an estimated 8 quarter-turns, sustaining another significant impact to the right rear passenger compartment. The vehicle came to rest on its wheels facing south. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. The occupants were transported to a local medical facility and the subject ultimately transferred to a trauma facility due to serious injury(s). The 5-year-old occupant was not injured.