This case involved a belted driver responding to a head-on, extreme off-set left impact with frontal impact air bag deployment. This crash occurred on a two-lane two-way east/west trafficway traveling through a residential area. There was a single lane for travel in each direction separated by painted double yellow lines. The roadway was bordered by bike lanes and curbed sidewalks. For eastbound traffic the roadway curved right and had a slight uphill grade. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the late afternoon, daylight weekday crash. The case vehicle , vehicle 1, (V1), a 2000 Ford F-150 4-door pickup, was traveling eastbound. The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and frontal impact air bags. The 44-year-old male driver (case subject) and the 19-year-old male front right seat passenger were both determined to have been using the belt restraints based on circumstantial evidence. The opposing vehicle, vehicle 2 (V2), a 2001 GMC Sierra pickup) was traveling westbound. V2 was occupied solely by the driver. As V1 negotiated the right curve on the uphill incline, V2 was traveling in the opposite direction, negotiating the left curve and downhill grade. The driver of V2 allowed the vehicle to drift left, across the double centerline, and into the path of V1. The front left of V1 struck the front left of V2. The impact caused both of the case vehicle's frontal impact air bags to deploy. V1 rotated counterclockwise approximately 100-degrees as it rebounded from the impact. The vehicle came to rest within close proximity of the point of impact facing north with its rear wheels on the south sidewalk and its front wheels in the roadway. V2 rotated counterclockwise approximately 80-degrees and came to rest within close proximity to the point of impact facing south. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The driver of V1 (case subject) was transported to a trauma facility due to injury while the front right passenger of V1 was not injured.