This case involved a belted female driver responding to a left side leading rollover sequence with frontal impact air bag deployment.

This crash occurred on the southbound side of a four lane, divided, traffic way in a rural desert environment. The north/south road had two lanes for travel in each direction divided by a wide natural median. The left (east) roadside was bordered by a paved bituminous shoulder and followed by the dirt median. The right roadside (west) was bordered by a paved bituminous shoulder followed by a, gently down sloping, dirt area culminating in a shallow ditch with a small dirt hill. There was a barbed wire fence stretching along the small dirt/sand hill. Beyond, the desert floor was level. The concrete road was level and had a gradual right curve for southbound traffic. The weather was clear and the road dry during the morning, daylight, weekend crash.

The case vehicle (1997 Nissan 200SX, 2-door coupe) was traveling southbound in the number-two lane (left) at a police reported (estimated) 105 mph. The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts in the outboard positions and driver and passenger frontal impact air bags. The 50-year-old female driver (case subject, sole occupant) was determined to have been using the belt restraint.

The driver became distracted, while intending to continue forward travel, by reaching and visually searching for items on the front right seat. During this she allowed the vehicle's left wheels to travel off of the left (east) roadside and into the dirt median. As she brought her attention back to the front the vehicle struck a plastic reflector post with its front plane. The driver steered the vehicle sharply to the right in an attempt to regain the roadway. The vehicle entered into a clockwise yaw as it came back onto the roadway, across it and off of the other side (west). The vehicle continued to slide in an ever-increasing yaw with its left side now beginning to lead as it struck the small dirt hill. The vehicle inspection revealed the front left wheel rim to be abraded and the tire flat, and the left rear wheel mud caked and also flat. However, there was also evidence of an impact to the front left underside of the bumper and undercarriage. It may be surmised that the vehicle struck and rode up onto the dirt hill with its front undercarriage as it rotated clockwise, tripping on its left side wheels. In the course of this the left plane of the vehicle would have struck the barbed wire fence. The vehicle overturned to the left, landing first on its right roof rail, presumably. Scene evidence revealed that the vehicle traveled an approximated 14 meters from its trip point to its first landing and 32 meters from its trip point to its final rest position on its wheels facing northwest (nearly opposite its original travel direction). It was estimated that the vehicle overturned twelve quarter-turns.

The vehicle's frontal impact air bags deployed. There were, at least, three distinct non-horizontal impacts to the greenhouse area. The top right plane including the hood, fender and right roof rail seemed to be damaged in the first landing. The right side pillars were folded inward 20 cm's and downward 25 cm's. There was an impact to the top back plane, which folded the trunk down and into the right quarter-panel suggesting a rearward movement on impact. There was a less significant impact to the left roof rail consisting of scratching but the pillars were upright. The left side wheels were bent slightly under while the wheels were protruding slightly on the right side suggesting an impact to the left side wheels during the sequence.

The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. The subject was transported to a trauma facility due to 'other visible injury' (fractured ribs and fractured bilateral wrists) as rated by police. The subject related that she came to rest (within the vehicle) trapped on her left side between the left doors and the driver's seat with her chest adjacent to the door and her flanks against the seat. Her head was out of the left rear window and her feet out the driver's window.