This case involved a belted driver responding to a frontal impact with a mound of dirt and then an eight-quarter turn rollover with the frontal and knee bolster airbag deployments. This single vehicle crash occurred on the eastbound side of a multi-lane, divided, trafficway traveling through a suburban area. The eastbound roadway had two lanes for travel. There was also a two-lane roadway merging from the right. There was a wide, flat, natural median dividing the roadways. The left (north) roadside consisted of a paved shoulder followed by the dirt median. There was a large mound of dirt (construction, approximately 1m high and 2m diam.) located on the median covered with a heavy plastic tarp. There was an overpass just east of the crash site. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the early morning (dark-not lit), weekend crash. The case vehicle, a 2001 Kia Sportage 2-door SUV, was traveling eastbound in the number-two lane (left). The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts, driver and passenger frontal impact air bags and a driver's frontal impact knee bolster air bag. The 20-year-old, female, driver (case subject/sole occupant) was determined to have been using the belt restraint. The subject, for unknown reasons, steered the vehicle to the right and then back to the left very abruptly (according to an eyewitness). The maneuvers resulted in the vehicle traveling off of the left (north) roadside and onto the median where the front and undercarriage struck the large mound of dirt. The vehicle's frontal impact air bags deployed. The vehicle dislodged the dirt and 'climbed' the mound with its left wheels as the mound gave way. The vehicle then began to rollover to the right where it landed first with its top left hood, fender, A-pillar, windshield header and roof rail on the median shoulder. The vehicle continued to overturn back onto the roadway, landing hard on its undercarriage during the process. The vehicle came to rest, after eight quarter-turns, on its wheels across lanes 2 and 3 facing northeast. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. The driver (subject) was transported due to "B" injuries as rated by police.