This case involved a belted driver responding to a rollover crash with side impact air bag deployment. This single vehicle crash occurred on the northbound side of a multi-lane interstate traveling through an urban area. The north/south interstate had four to five lanes for travel in each direction divided by a concrete barrier. At the crash site there were five lanes for northbound travel with a two-lane entrance ramp adjoining at a gradual angle to the northbound lanes. The right (east) roadside consisted of a paved shoulder, an area of ice plant, meter light pole, paved entrance ramp, paved shoulder, dirt embankment, large eucalyptus tree, concrete drainage channel and another dirt embankment with a chain-link fence. The trafficway was curved slightly to the right and was essentially level. The weather was cloudy but the bituminous roadway was dry during the early morning (dark-lit), weekend crash. The case vehicle, a 2006 Mazda 3, 4-door sedan, was traveling northbound in the number-four lane. The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts, driver and passenger frontal impact air bags, first row seat back mounted side impact air bags and left and right roof rail mounted side impact air bags. The 24-year-old male driver (case subject) was using the belt restraint as evidenced by the condition of the belt and associated injury. There was one additional occupant, a 24-year-old male seated in the front right passenger seat. This occupant may not have been belted as there was conflicting reported information that he may have been fully ejected and his belt did not exhibit signs of use. While traveling northbound and negotiating the gradual right curve, the subject allowed the vehicle to veer to the right for an unknown reason. The vehicle left the right roadside already in a clockwise yaw. The ice-plant landscaping became furrowed by the left side wheels. The vehicle tripped to the left. The vehicle overturned an estimated sixteen quarter-turns, striking a meter light pole and a large tree in the process. The vehicle rebounded off of the tree, reversed its heading direction and came to rest on its wheels facing south along side a perimeter fence. The vehicle's seat back and roof rail mounted air bags deployed during the sequence. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. The subject (driver) was transported to a trauma facility due to serious injury. The front right seat passenger was transported to a trauma facility due to moderate injuries.