This case involved a belted driver responding to a rollover crash. This crash occurred on the westbound side of a multi-lane, divided, interstate. There were three lanes for westbound travel and to the right (north), two transition lanes that split-off and began an ascent to an adjacent trafficway. The foundation for the ascending lanes creates a, steep, asphalt/earth embankment along the north shoulder of the interstate for the remaining three lanes. The westbound lanes are divided from the eastbound by a concrete barrier. The weather was clear and the concrete trafficway dry during the noontime, weekday crash. The case vehicle one, V1, a 1999 BMW Z3 Roadster 2-door convertible (previously owned), was traveling westbound in the number-five lane (far left). V1 was equipped with seat back integrated-lap and shoulder belts and driver and passenger frontal impact air bags. The 33-year-old male driver (case subject/sole occupant) was determined to have been using the belt restraint. There was another vehicle involved in the outset of the crash. A 2003 Nissan Sentra 4-door sedan, vehicle two (V2), was traveling westbound in the number-four lane, adjacent to V1. The driver of V2 made some lane changes and came up along the right side of V1. For unknown reasons, the subject (driver, V1) steered left abruptly causing him to leave the left roadway. The subject steered right abruptly, causing the vehicle to travel across the westbound lanes in a diagonal fashion. As V1 crossed the path of V2, the front left of V2 struck the right rear wheel of V1. The impact caused V1 to rotate slightly clockwise as the driver reacted by steering left. The vehicle began a counterclockwise yaw as it traveled off of the right (north) roadside. The vehicle's right rear wheel struck the asphalt embankment and was deformed as the vehicle ramped up the 'wall'. Varying theories of actual vehicle dynamics between this point in the crash and the point of final rest are plausible. The vehicle overturned an estimated ten quarter-turns to the right and came to rest on its top on the same side of the ramped structure. The first landing of the greenhouse was thought to be the right headrest roll bar and right A-pillar (and convertible roof). The relatively short distance from flip to final rest, and the damage sustained, suggests an upward launch of the vehicle with hard landings. The case vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. V2 was driven from the scene. The subject (driver, V1) was transported to a trauma facility due to serious injury(s).