This case involves a belted driver responding to a non-horizontal frontal impact with frontal impact air bag deployment. This single vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane, east/west roadway traveling through a rural area. There was a single lane for travel in each direction separated by painted double yellow lines. For westbound traffic, the roadway had a slight, gradual, downgrade, and a left curve where two straight sections of roadway joined. The roadway was bordered to the north by a narrow gravel shoulder followed by a shallow drainage ditch. The south roadside consisted of a narrow gravel shoulder followed by a steep, downward embankment approximately 10-12m, where the ground leveled out into a field. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the early morning (dark-not lit) weekend crash. The case vehicle (2002 Ford Expedition, 4-door SUV) was traveling westbound. The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and driver and front right passenger frontal impact air bags. The 54-year-old female driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint. The subject was traveling straight and negotiating the slight downgrade east of the left curve. The subject perceived an on-coming vehicle making the curve ahead as encroaching into her lane. As the subject reached the left curve she continued straight, off of the right (north) road edge and onto the narrow gravel shoulder. The subject steered left while braking in an attempt to regain the roadway and entered into a counterclockwise yaw as the vehicle did return to the roadway and then traveled off of the opposite side. The vehicle launched off of the embankment landing on its front right. The vehicle's frontal impact air bags deployed. The vehicle's back end rotated upward as the vehicle lifted and rollover to the right. The vehicle overturned four quarter-turns coming to rest on its wheels in the field, facing east (opposite its original heading). The subject self-extricated and crawled up to the roadway for help. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. The subject was transported from the scene to a trauma facility as a result of serious injury(s).