This case involved a belted male driver responding to a near side (left) impact with a narrow object (steel light pole). This crash occurred on the westbound side of a four-lane, divided, interstate in an urban area. The east/west traffic way had two lanes for travel in each direction divided by a guardrail-protected median. For westbound traffic there was an exit ramp leading off to the right. The north roadside consisted of a paved shoulder followed by a mountable curb. Just beyond the curb are located standard 30cm steel light poles. The westbound lanes were straight with a slight downhill grade. The weather was cloudy but the concrete roadway was dry during the mid-morning, weekday crash. The case vehicle (2006 Ford F350, 4-door pickup pulling an unspecified 'flatbed' utility trailer loaded with a small tractor) was traveling westbound in the number-one lane (right). The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row frontal impact air bags. The vehicle was occupied by the 49-year-old driver (case subject) and a second occupant, a 29-year-old male front right seat passenger. It was determined that the subject was using the belt restraint as evidenced by the belt being trapped spooled out by damage to its retractor. It is presumed that the other occupant was also belted, based on available information (no evidence). The small tractor had been loaded incorrectly onto the trailer by leaving it placed too far rearward. As V1 traveled westbound, the improper weight distribution caused the trailer to sway progressively more violently. The trailer rotated out away from V1 in a clockwise direction, pulling V1 into a left yaw as it traveled forward and now to the right (north). V1 traveled off of the north roadside leading with its left plane. V1 struck a steel light pole with its left side in the center of the driver's door. The impact caused V1 to 'wrap' around the pole to a degree and then rotate clockwise where it came to rest against the pole facing east (opposite its original direction) with the trailer still attached and upright. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. Both occupants were transported to a trauma facility due to 'C' injury as rated by police, with the driver (subject) complaining of pain to the left side.