This case involved the belted driver of a passenger car responding to a front plane impact with a left-turning large pickup (left turn into path) and with case vehicle frontal impact air bag deployment. The occupant's injuries were rated serious. This crash occurred at the four-way intersection of two multi-lane trafficways. The east/west trafficway was straight, had three lanes for travel in each direction, two designated left turn lanes and a designated right turn lane divided by a painted median. The north/south trafficway was curved on its approach, had two lanes for travel in each direction, two designated left turn lanes and a designated right turn lane divided by a raised curb median. The intersection was situated at the crest of a hill and was controlled by tri-color traffic signals. The weather was clear and the bituminous trafficways dry during the early morning (dark-street lights), weekend crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2003 Mitsubishi Eclipse, 2-door convertible) was traveling westbound in the number-three (left) lane on its approach to the intersection with the intention of traveling straight through. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row outboard frontal impact air bags. The 25-year-old female driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt based on physical evidence. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2006 Ford F250 pickup, nfs) was traveling southbound in the number-two lane (left) on its approach to the intersection with the intention of turning left. As V1 entered the intersection V2 began a wide, arcing, left turn across the number-two and left turn lanes into the path of V1. The front plane of V1 struck the front left of V2. V1's frontal impact air bags deployed. The impact rotated V1 approximately 100-degrees counterclockwise as V2 was deflected approximately 40-degrees clockwise until the vehicles struck a second time with the right plane of V1 striking the left plane of V2 (side-slap). V1 began free rolling out of the intersection toward the southeast corner where it came to rest facing southeast. V2 came to rest within the intersection facing south to southwest. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The driver of V1 (case subject) was transported to a trauma facility due to 'severe' injury(s).