This single vehicle case involved a belted driver responding to a right side leading rollover sequence. This crash occurred on the southbound side of a four lane, divided, traffic way in a rural, desert environment. There were two lanes for travel in each direction divided by a wide natural median with a depressed center. The roadway was curved, gradually, right for southbound travel and was level. Just prior to the first harmful event, however, there was an intersection with designated left and right turn lanes. The weather was clear and the concrete road was dry during the midday, weekday crash. The case vehicle (2003 Ford Expedition, 4-door utility wagon) was traveling southbound in the number two lane (left) at a police reported (estimated) 109 kmph intending to continue forward travel. The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts in all positions, and frontal impact driver and passenger air bags. The front row was occupied by the 34-year-old, female driver (case subject, belted) and a 43-year-old female passenger (belted) in the front right position. The second row was occupied by a 3-year-old, male passenger (CRS belted) in the left position, a 28-year-old male passenger in the center position (unbelted) and a 31-year-old male passenger (belted) in the right position. The vehicle's right rear tire tread separated from the tire body. The ensuing noise and pulling of the vehicle to the right startled the driver and she steered sharply to the left and began braking in an effort to stop in the median. The tire flattened as the vehicle began a counterclockwise yaw, gouging into the paved shoulder. The vehicle continued off of the left side of the roadway and into the dirt median where the right side wheels tripped the vehicle to the right. Scene evidence indicates the vehicle traveled 6.7m from its trip point to the first landing, determined to have been on its top left A-pillar, windshield header, roof rail, roof, B-pillar and to a lesser extent, hood. The vehicle continued overturning across the median an estimated twelve quarter-turns. The vehicle came to rest on its wheels on the opposite side of the median (on the northbound median shoulder) facing north, opposite its original travel direction. The vehicle traveled 31.7 meters from its point of trip to its final rest position. The frontal impact air bags did not deploy. During the sequence the vehicle sustained three distinct impacts to its greenhouse (aforementioned top left front half damage, top left rear half and top right roof rail). Additionally, there was a significant impact to the right side undercarriage and wheels that bent the muffler exhaust pipe upward. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. The case subject (driver) was transported to a trauma facility (via a local facility first) due to severe injuries as rated by police. The front right passenger was not injured significantly (eyelid contusion). The second row left side passenger was transported due to 'other visible injury' as rated by police (laceration to left hand). The second row center passenger (not belted) was fully ejected during the sequence and was transported due to severe injuries as rated by police (broken right arm and broken pelvis and complaint of pain). The second row right side passenger was transported due to 'other visible injury' as rated by police (lacerations to forehead and face, large contusion to forehead).