This case involved the belted driver of a passenger car responding to a near side impact with a large pickup. There was frontal air bag deployment in the case vehicle. This crash occurred at the three-way intersection of two multi-lane streets traveling through a commercial area. The east/west street had three lanes for travel in each direction with a designated left turn lane for the westbound approach and two turns lanes for the eastbound approach divided by raised curb medians. The north/south, street adjoined from the north, had two lanes for northbound travel, two lanes for southbound travel and two designated left turn lanes divided by a curbed median. The intersection was controlled by tri-color lights for all directions. Both roadways were straight and level on their approach to the intersection. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadways dry during the afternoon, weekend crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2003 Ford ZX2 Escort, 2-door coupe) was traveling southbound in the number-one left turn lane on its approach to the intersection with the intention of turning left. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and driver and passenger frontal impact air bags. The 26-year-old female driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint (based on 'other than physical evidence'.) The opposing vehicle (V2, 2002 Toyota Tundra pickup) was traveling westbound on its approach to the intersection in the number-three lane with the intention of traveling straight through. V2 was occupied solely by the driver. V1 came to a stop at the intersection limit line. The driver began to negotiate the left turn, which brought her into the path of V2. The driver of V2 observed this and applied his brakes leaving locked wheel tire marks. The front of V2 struck the left plane of V1 forward of the B-pillar. The impact caused V1's frontal air bags to deploy. V1 was deflected with a clockwise rotation toward the southwest (to its right) while V2 was deflected to the southwest (to its left) where the vehicles made slight contact with the left side of V1 striking the right side of V2. V1 came to rest within the intersection facing southwest. V2 came to rest partially off of the south roadside facing southwest. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The subject (driver, V1) was transported to a trauma facility due to 'severe' injury(s). The driver of V2 complained of pain but was not transported.