This case involved a belted right rear seat passenger responding to a left side leading overturn sequence. This single vehicle crash occurred on the northbound side of a multi-lane interstate traveling through an urban area. There were four lanes for northbound travel divided from the southbound lanes by a guardrail. The west roadside consisted of a paved shoulder followed by the guardrail. The east roadside consisted of a paved shoulder, a dirt shoulder/island created by the confluence of an entrance ramp adjoining from the right, the two-lane wide entrance ramp, a mountable curb and the natural roadside, which began relatively level and then fell increasingly away to a steeper embankment. The terrain had numerous trees in the vicinity. The dirt island held a warning sign and a metering light (non-breakaway) for the entrance ramp. The weather was cloudy but the concrete roadway was dry during the early morning (dark-lit), weekend crash. The case vehicle (2003 Toyota Tundra, 4-door pickup) was traveling northbound in the number-three lane. The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row frontal impact air bags. The 44-year-old male driver, 73-year-old male front right seat passenger, 16-year-old male second row left seat passenger and the 66-year-old second row right seat passenger (case subject) were determined to have been using the belt restraints. As the vehicle came to the top of a slight hillcrest the driver observed a disabled vehicle ahead in his lane due to a previous crash. The driver steered left in avoidance, traveled into the median and struck the guardrail with its front left. The impact redirected the vehicle to the right where it re-entered and crossed the northbound lanes in an increasing clockwise yaw. As the vehicle traveled off onto the traffic island it struck the metering light with its front right and sheared it from its base. The vehicle continued across the entrance ramp in a northeast direction while rotating clockwise and traveled off of the east trafficway. The vehicle tripped to the left, overturning an estimated ten quarter-turns and striking down a portion of chain-link fence before coming to rest on its top facing in a southerly direction. The vehicle's frontal impact air bags had deployed. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. The driver and second row right seat passenger (case subject) were transported to trauma facilities as a result of minor and serious injuries, respectively. The front right and second row left seat passengers were transported as precautionary measures per the police crash report.