This case involved the belted driver of a small passenger vehicle responding to a near side collision with the front of another passenger vehicle. This crash occurred at a four-way intersection traveling through a rural, agricultural area. The north/south roadway had a single lane for travel in each direction, separated by painted lane delineations, with a designated left turn lane at the intersection. The east/west roadway had a single lane for travel in each direction separated by painted delineations. The intersection was controlled by stop signs at the east and west approaches. The roadways were straight and level. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadways dry during the weekday afternoon crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2004 Toyota Corolla, 4-door sedan) was traveling westbound on its approach to the intersection with the intention of turning left. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row frontal impact air bags. The 19-year-old female driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint, as based on physical evidence. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2002 Jeep Wrangler, 2-door SUV) was traveling northbound on its approach to the intersection with the intent of traveling straight through it. As V2 neared the intersection, V1 (subject/driver) began the left turn maneuver bringing her into the path of V2. The driver of V2 observed this in time to apply the brakes leaving locked wheel tire deposits up to impact, where the front of V2 struck the left plane of V1. The impact deflected and rotated V1 to its right approximately 45-degrees (north/clockwise) where it came to rest off of the northwest corner facing northwest. V2 rotated approximately 100-degrees counterclockwise as it came to rest in the southbound left-turn lane facing SW. Both vehicles were towed due to damage and both the subject (driver/V1) and the driver of V2 were transported to a local hospital. The subject, for treatment of 'severe' injury(s) and was transferred to a trauma facility..