This case involved a belted driver of a small passenger car responding to a far side impact, and then a near side impact with similar vehicles. This three-car crash occurred at the intersection of an alley way access and a four-lane, undivided, north/south trafficway traveling through an urban area. There were two lanes for travel in each direction separated by painted double yellow lines. There were no controls. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway was dry during the dusk (daylight) time crash. The case vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Hyundai Accent, 4-door sedan, was traveling southbound in the number-two (left) lane proceeding straight. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belt restraints and first row frontal impact air bags. There were two occupants in V1. The 20-year-old female driver (case subject) was determined to have been using the belt restraint, as was the 42-year-old female front right seat passenger. The second vehicle two (V2, 1998 Mazda 626, 4-door sedan) was traveling eastbound in the alley way approaching the intersection and intending to turn left. There were two occupants in V2. The third vehicle three (V3, 1991 Honda Accord, 4-door sedan) was traveling northbound in the number-two lane. There were two occupants in V3. As V1 traveled southbound, the driver of V2 was easbound and came to the intersection, looked north but could not see V1 and began a left turn. V1 had already moved across the path of V2 to the extent that the front right of V2 struck the right plane of V1 primarily aft of the B-pillar. The impact caused V1 to rotate clockwise approximately 80-degrees as it was deflected to the left in a southeasterly direction, crossing the centerline and into the path of V3. The driver of V3 observed this and braked to a complete stop just before the left plane of V1 slid into the front of V3. V1 came to rest against V3 facing west. V3 remained in place, facing north. V2 came to a controlled stop along the east curb line. All three vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. Both occupants of V1 (driver/subject) were transported to a trauma facility due to varying degrees of injury. The occupants of V3 were also transported to medical facilities.