This case involved a belted driver responding to a frontal impact into a concrete center divider with frontal impact air bag(s) deployment. This crash occurred on the westbound side of an eight-lane, divided, interstate traveling through an urban area. There were four lanes for travel in each direction divided by a concrete barrier. The left shoulder (median) was paved. The trafficway was straight and level. The weather was rainy and the concrete travel lanes were wet during the dusk, weekday crash. The case vehicle, vehicle one, (V1), a 2001 Mitsubishi Eclipse 2-door coupe, was traveling westbound in the number four (left) lane. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and driver and passenger frontal impact air bags. The 55-year-old female driver (case subject/sole occupant) was determined to have been using the belt restraint. There were three vehicles traveling some distance behind V1 in the same westbound, number four lane. An unknown year, make, model or type of vehicle was the first traveling to the rear of V1. A 2005 Chevrolet Malibu, vehicle two (V2), was behind the unknown vehicle and a 1988 Dodge Caravan, vehicle three (V3), was traveling behind V2. The driver of V1 suddenly steered the vehicle to the left, possibly in response to a perceived hazard. This maneuver resulted in the vehicle leaving the travel lane, crossing the paved median shoulder and striking the concrete divider with its extreme front left. V1's frontal impact air bags deployed. The vehicle mounted the divider with its left side wheels and then came back down off of it, on the left side wheels, landing heavy on its rear axle. The vehicle reportedly rotated clockwise an unknown number of times (presumed 180-degrees) eventually coming to rest across the number-four lane facing south. V1 was now positioned with its left (driver's) side facing the on-coming traffic. The unknown vehicle steered to the left of the front of V1 and kept going without stopping. V2 saw V1 straddling the lane at the last minute and attempted to go left, in front of the vehicle, but swiped V1's front plane with V2's right plane. V3 came upon V1 and struck the left door with its front. V1 was pushed an unknown distance (presumed short) west and came to rest still facing south. V1 was towed from the scene due to disabling damage. V2 drove from the scene and V3's disposition was not known. The driver of V1 (subject) was transported to a trauma facility with "A" injuries as rated by police.