This case involves the belted driver of a passenger vehicle responding to a near side collision with another passenger vehicle. This crash occurred at the intersection of two multi-lane streets traveling through a suburban, residential, commercial area. The north/south, street had two lanes for travel in each direction and two dedicated left turn lanes divided by raised curb medians. The roadway was straight and level. The east leg of the east/west street had a significant downward grade and right curve on its approach to the intersection while the west leg was straight and level. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadways dry during the morning (daylight) weekend crash. The case vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, was traveling southbound in the number-two (left) lane. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row driver and passenger frontal impact air bags. The 25-year-old male driver (case subject) and the 22-year-old female front right seat passenger were both using the belt restraints. The opposing vehicle two (V2), 2003 Buick Regal 4-door sedan, was traveling westbound in the number-two lane. There were two occupants in V2. A third vehicle three (V3), a 2000 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, was stopped at the west leg of the intersection in the number-one lane, waiting to make a right turn. There were two occupants in V3. V1 and V2 entered the intersection simultaneously with V2 approaching from V1's left. The front of V2 struck the left side of V1. The impact deflected V1 to the right (s/w) and the front of V1 struck the left front of V3. V1's frontal impact air bags deployed during the sequence, presumably during the second event. V1 came to rest against V3 at the southwest corner of the intersection facing southwest. The impact caused V2 to rotate counterclockwise and travel in an arc adjacent to V1, though without second contact. V2 came to rest in the southbound number-one lane facing southeast. All three vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The driver of V1 (subject) was transported to a trauma facility due to 'severe' injury(s). The front right passenger of V1 was also transported with lesser injury. The occupants of V2 and V3 were also transported with lesser injuries.