This case involved the belted, pregnant driver of a passenger car responding to a series of minor bouncing forces culminating in a non-horizontal front undercarriage impact without airbag deployment. The driver/case subject was transported to a trauma facility due to perceived severe injury(s) relating to the pregnancy. This single vehicle crash occurred on a multi-lane interstate traveling through an urban area. The north/south trafficway had five lanes for travel in each direction divided by a concrete barrier and was curved, left for northbound traffic. An entrance ramp to the interstate, running parallel through the scene, eventually adjoined from the right. The right roadside (east) was planted with 'ice plant' and was level at the point of vehicle departure. The weather was clear and the concrete roadway dry during the morning (daylight) weekday crash. The case vehicle (2004 Honda Accord, 2-door sedan) was traveling northbound in the number-three lane. The case vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts with pretensioners, first row frontal impact air bags, first row seat back mounted side impact air bags and left and right roof rail mounted curtain air bags. The 24-year-old female driver (case subject/sole occupant) was determined to have been using the belt restraint. While negotiating the left curve in the trafficway, the driver began to experience physical impairments such as difficulty breathing and light headedness. The driver intended to pull onto the median shoulder but lost consciousness. The vehicle began tracking straight, through the left curve, and ran off of the right roadside into the ice plant. The vehicle continued tracking through the ice plant, evidently 'bouncing' across the relatively level terrain. The vehicle brushed aside a shrubbery as it continued straight until it dropped down into a shallow depression (approx. 1m) where it struck its front undercarriage, rotating the vehicle clockwise slightly where it came to rest facing northeast. The vehicle was towed from the scene with possible disabling damage to the undercarriage. The driver/case subject was transported to a trauma facility due to perceived severe injury(s).