This case involves a belted driver responding to a frontal collision into a large boulder with frontal air bag deployment.

This single vehicle crash occurred on the westbound side of a four lane, divided, interstate in a rural, mountainous area. There were two lanes for travel in each direction divided by a wide natural median. The westbound roadway was straight with an uphill grade that began a sweeping right curve at the point of the critical event. The south (left/median) roadside consisted of a narrow paved shoulder followed by a gravel shoulder with a shallow, asphalt drainage ditch running adjacent to it. Beyond the drainage ditch were large boulders. The north (right) roadside consisted of a narrow paved shoulder and a gravel shoulder followed by boulders. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the early morning (2:10 am, dark-not lit), weekday crash.

The case vehicle (2005 Mitsubishi Lancer, 4-door sedan) was traveling westbound in the number two-lane (left) at a police reported (estimated) 105 kmph. The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts (pretensioners, front row) and driver and front right passenger frontal impact air bags. The 20-year-old male driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint as evidenced by the pretensioner having activated and the belt being locked spooled out with friction burns/scuffs evident.

The driver was possibly fatigued, as indicated on the police crash report, and was occupying himself by adjusting the radio as he traveled up the straight stretch of roadway. The roadway curved northward (right) and the driver looked up to find that the vehicle had continued straight, and traveled off of the south roadway edge. The vehicle struck and traveled across the shallow, asphalt, drainage ditch, which may have caused the vehicle to become airborne for a short distance. The vehicle's front plane struck a large boulder, evidently riding up onto it, before overturning one quarter-turn onto its left side where it came to rest facing east. The vehicle's frontal impact air bags deployed.

The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage while the driver was transported to a trauma facility due to 'severe' injuries as rated by police.