This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 33 year old female restrained driver of a 2005 Dodge Durango (V1), involved in a rollover crash. The case vehicle (V1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The available driver frontal air bag and right front passenger air bag did not deploy as a result of this event. A three year old female passenger was seated in the 2nd row right hand seating position. V1 was traveling southbound on a two lane undivided bituminous road. The driver of V1 steered to the left into the center left turn lane to avoid a car slowing to turn right in front of her. The driver of V1 then over-steered right and entered a clockwise yaw as she re-entered the southbound travel lane. V1 continued the clockwise yaw off of the right edge of the southbound travel lane and tripped on the soft shoulder, beginning a driver side leading rollover. V1 rolled 3 quarter turns in a counterclockwise arc in the swale adjacent to the shoulder. At the end of the 3rd quarter turn V1 stopped - then rolled backward one quarter turn and came to rest on the roof and pointed in a southwesterly direction. The restrained 33 year old female driver of V1 (case occupant) was presumed to be in an upright posture. At initiation of the tripped rollover, the case occupant initiated a left lateral trajectory in response to the 9 o'clock trip force. During the rollover event the case occupant would have moved the left and upward due to the centrifugal forces created by the rolling vehicle. The 2nd row right hand occupant was improperly belted with the lap portion of the belt across her abdomen, but the shoulder portion positioned under her left arm and then up around the seat back head rest. The 2nd row occupant slipped out from under the seatbelt and was ejected from the vehicle during the rollover. Following the crash, the driver and 2nd row right hand occupants were transported to a local trauma center by air for treatment of their serious injuries. V1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.