The focus of this case is on a 4-year old female seated in the 2nd row left seating position (case occupant #3) and a 21 month old male seated in the 2nd row right seating position (case occupant #4) of a 2006 Nissan Altima (V1), involved in a rear impact with a 2010 Chevrolet Impala (V2) followed by a frontal impact with a 1993 Ford Econoline Cargo Van (V3). The driver was a 28 year old male and the right front occupant was a 30 year old female. Both occupants were restrained by the available manual lap and shoulder belt. This three vehicle collision occurred during the early morning hours (dawn) on a straight uphill bituminous northbound roadway with 3 travel lanes. The weather was clear and the road surface was dry. The speed limit for the road is 105 kph (65 mph). V1 was stopped in the center travel lane behind V3 due to traffic congestion ahead. For unknown reasons V2 drove into the back of V1 with no obvious signs of braking. The speed for V1 was estimated to be 65 mph (105 kph)and the speed for V2 and V3 was estimated to be 0 mph. As a result of the impact with V2, V1 was pushed forward such that the front of V1 contacted the back of V3. V2 was deflected to the right and came to rest against the guard rail on the right side of the northbound roadway pointed in an easterly direction. V1 and V3 remained in the center travel lane pointed in a northerly direction. The left rear passenger of V1 (case occupant #3) was appropriately restrained in a forward facing child safety seat (CSS), wearing the five point CSS harness. The CSS was appropriately fastened into the car utilizing the available lower rear latch fastener and tethered at the top to the tether attachment above the second row seating position. The right rear passenger of V1 (case occupant #4) was appropriately restraind in a forward facing child safety seat (CSS), wearing the five point CSS harness. The CSS was appropriately fastened into the car utilizing the available lower rear latch fastener and tethered at the top to the tether attachment above the second row seating position. Case occupant #3 was removed from the vehicle by rescue personnel and transported to the trauma center by air. Transport was uneventful. Case occupant #4 was also transferred to the trauma center by air. The driver and front right seat passenger of V1 were transferred by ground to local hospitals. The disposition and injury level of the drivers of V2 and V3 is unknown. V1, V2 and V3 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.