Vehicle one (V1 - case vehicle), a 1999 Ford Ranger, 4x2 Supercab pickup was traveling east in the eastbound lane of a two-lane, two-way dirt road and was approaching a 4-leg intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Dodge Durango, 4x4, 4-door utility vehicle was traveling south in the southbound lane of a two-lane, two-way bituminous road. It was daylight, the weather was clear, and the roads were dry. The driver of V1 was legally driving on a learner's permit with her father as the right-front passenger. As V1 approached the mouth of the intersection, the dirt road changed to asphalt and the driver stopped at the intersection. The driver of V1 began to make a left turn but due to inexperience failed to allow the steering-wheel to straighten out after making the left turn and V1 continued in a left turn maneuver which allowed V1 to cross the centerline of the north-south road and enter into the path of V2. The right-front passenger of V1 attempted to gain control of the vehicle by reaching for the steering-wheel with his left hand. The driver of V2 recognized the situation and applied the brakes and steered to the right but was unable to avoid a collision. The front of V2 struck the right side of V1 in an oblique, L-type configuration. Both vehicles came to rest off the road on the northwest corner of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to disabling vehicle damage. The 16-year-old female driver of V1 (non-case occupant) was using the available 3-point seat belt and the steering-wheel airbag deployed. She was transported to a regional level-one trauma center via ground ambulance where she was treated and released for minor injuries. The 43-year-old male right-front passenger (case occupant) was using the available 3-point seat belt and the dash-mounted airbag deployed. He was probably somewhat out-of-position as he was reaching with his left hand across the vehicle in an attempt to grab the steering-wheel and regain control of the vehicle. He was transported to a regional level-one trauma center via helicopter and hospitalized for treatment of severe injuries.