The case occupant was the 175 cm, 112 kg (5 ft 9 in, 246 lb), 23-year-old male driver of a 2000 Pontiac Grand Am, 4-door sedan who apparently fell asleep while driving. His vehicle drove down a long entrance ramp to a freeway parking lot/rest area in a controlled fashion until the single lane diverged into two lanes. His vehicle departed the left side of this ramp, struck a sign post with the front, then struck a parked 1994 International tractor-trailer somewhere along the tractor rear dual axles. The initial impact with the sign post was classified as minor and had little effect on the driver kinematics, but it is believed, this impact caused him to wake up and apply the brakes. The primary frontal impact was classified as severe. The WinSMASH reconstruction program calculated a Barrier Equivalent Velocity (BEV) of 68 kmph (42 mph) which appeared to be consistent with the observed vehicle damage and matched well with the Crash Data Recorder (CDR) output that indicated a longitudinal change in speed of -74 kmph (-43 mph). The case occupant was not using the available three-point seat belt. The steering-wheel air bag deployed. In response to the 12 o'clock direction of force (00 degrees) during the primary impact, the driver moved forward, relative to the vehicle interior. The subsequent rapid counterclockwise rotation probably caused him to move somewhat to his left, relative to the vehicle interior. He sustained multiple bilateral rib fractures with bilateral pneumothoraces (left ribs #4-5 anterolateral, left rib #9 lateral, right ribs #4-7 anterolateral), upper chest abrasions, multiple liver lacerations, a splenic laceration, and left L1-L2 transverse process fractures from contact with the steering-wheel rim through the air bag (overwhelmed air bag). He also sustained ascaphoid fracture, right triquetrium fracture and three metacarpal fractures from contact with the steering-wheel rim (not air bag related). He sustained right midshaft radius and ulna fractures and a left midshaft ulna fracture from contact with the upper instrument panel. He sustained a left midshaft femur fracture, left iliac wing fracture, and a left medial condyle fracture from contact with the knee bolster. The case occupant's heart was reportedly stopped during the extrication. He was successfully resuscitated and transported to a regional level-one trauma center, but the length of time that he experienced with no blood flowing to his brain caused diffuse anoxic/ischemic brain injuries (not coded) that resulted in brain death. The case occupant succumbed to his injuries and became an organ donor.