This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 30-year-old female driver of a 2001 Toyota Tacoma PreRunner SR5 2wd pickup truck. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions, both of which were non-deployed. Vehicle 1 was eastbound on an eight-lane interstate highway and proceeding straight in the second inboard lane. The east and westbound lanes were divided by a raised concrete wall ("Jersey barrier"). The road was dark and unlit with no adverse weather conditions. Vehicle 2 (unknown make/model) was also eastbound and just behind Vehicle 1 in the adjacent inboard lane. Vehicle 2 attempted to change lanes to the right across the path of Vehicle 1. As Vehicle 2 entered the second inboard travel lane, the front right area of Vehicle 2 impacted the left side surface of Vehicle 1 (Event 1). The impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1 and induced a counterclockwise rotation. At this point Vehicle 1 began to travel laterally as the right side wheels began digging into the asphalt surface. This tripping mechanism initiated a 6 quarter-turn right side-leading rollover, which resulted in moderate damage to the top plane (Event 2). The police reported that Vehicle 1 came to rest upside down in the second inboard travel lane, facing northwest. Vehicle 2 continued in service. The restrained 30-year-old female driver of the 2001 Toyota Tacoma PreRunner pickup was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat track adjusted to a midrear position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks and fabric transfers documented on the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. During the first impact, the driver initiated a lateral and slightly rearward trajectory in response to the 8 o' clock impact force and loaded the left door interior surface. The door fabric was found abraded along with scratches on the armrest. During the 2nd impact, the driver initiated a lateral trajectory to the right in response to the roll moment. Hair strands and scrub marks were identified on the left center headliner. Stress and scratch marks were noted on the center console, which was also slightly displaced to the right. Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.