This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 72 year old female driver of a 2008 Kia Spectra EX 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The case vehicle was also equipped with (seat back mounted) side impact air bags for the front outboard seating positions, and side curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions. The driver frontal air bag, right front side impact air bag, and right side curtain air bag deployed as a result of an oblique angle collision with a 2004 Ford F-150 SuperCrew 4x4 pickup truck (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was initially stopped and facing west in the left turn lane of a multi-lane state highway, attempting to turn left (south) into a business driveway. The business driveway was located just east of a 3-leg signalized intersection. Vehicle 2 was eastbound on the inboard lane of the same roadway, and proceeding straight. It was daylight; with rainy weather conditions as the roads were wet. Vehicle 2 proceeded through the intersection as Vehicle 1 began to turn left across the eastbound lanes. The right side surface of Vehicle 1 was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, both vehicles were re-directed to the southeast. Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise as the left rear wheel/tire struck the south curb, resulting in minor damage (event 2). Vehicle 1 came to rest in close proximity to the final point of impact (along the south curb) facing northwest. Vehicle 2 came to rest in the eastbound (outboard) lane facing southeast. The restrained 72 year old female driver of the 2008 Kia Spectra was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat track adjusted to a mid-to-rear position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Furthermore, blood spatter noted along the shoulder webbing was consistent with driver belt use. At impact 1, the driver initiated a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 2 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, center console, and front right seat back. Localized fractures, indentations, and scuff marks were identified on the center console. The console armrest, gearshift, and parking brake were also deformed to the right. The inboard taper of the front right seatback was deformed and the fabric was abraded. A small indentation surrounded the contact site. No specific contacts were found on the deployed air bags. Light fraying and abrading documented on the inboard face of the deployed right side curtain air bag was (possibly) attributed to expansion within the module. Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital. The driver of Vehicle 1 was subsequently transferred to a trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.