Vehicle one (V1- case vehicle), a 2000 Chevrolet Malibu, 4-door sedan was traveling north in the right northbound lane of a four-lane, divided, limited-access highway (2 lanes northbound, protected median, two lanes southbound). Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Pontiac Montana, minivan was also traveling north in the right northbound lane and was behind V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 2005 Ford Escape, was traveling north in the left northbound lane just slightly ahead of V2 but behind V1. Vehicle four (V4), a 1999 Ford F550 SuperDuty, stake truck was traveling north in the right northbound lane just ahead of V1. Traffic was congested in the northbound direction and V1, V3 and V4 were all slowing/decelerating due to this congestion. It was daylight, the sky was cloudy, and the bituminous road surface was dry. The driver of V2 reportedly reached for an object on the floor and V2 drifted to the left. The left side of V2 struck the right side of V3. V2 was subsequently redirected back into the right northbound lane where V1 was now nearly at a stop due to traffic congestion and the front of V2 struck the rear of V1 in an offset configuration. This impact casued V2 to rotate slightly clockwise and the right side of V3 made secondary contact with the left-rear corner of V2 as they were slowing to make a controlled stop. The impact with V2 caused V1 to accelerate forward, rotate in a clockwise manner and the left side of V1 struck the rear of V4. This impact caused V1 to rotate in a counter clockwise manner, depart the right side of the road and come to rest facing north-north-east. V1, V2 and V3 were towed from the scene and V4 was driven. The 28-year-old male driver of V1 was using the available three-point seat belt and was transported via ground ambulance to a regional level-one trauma center where he was treated and released with minor injuries (AIS-1, ISS-1). The 25-year-old female right-front passenger (case occupant) was using the available three-point seat belt and was transported via ground ambulance where she was hospitalized and treated for "serious" injuries (AIS-3).