The case occupant is the 163 cm, 77 kg (5 ft 4 in, 170 lb), 80-year-old male driver of a 2004 Chevrolet Malibu, 4-door sedan that struck two mailboxes, sideswiped a tree and then struck a tree with the front end. The mailbox impacts were classified as minor and had no effect on the kinematics of the case vehicle occupants. The tree sideswipe to the right side was classified as minor and the frontal impact with the tree was coded in a delta-v range (greater than 55 kmph) due to the large discrepancy between the WinSMASH barrier output and the vehicles crash-data-recorder (CDR) recorded longitudinal output. The consensus of the review group was to code the delta-v range. The case occupant was using the available three-point seat belt and the steering-wheel air bag deployed. The case occupant was semi-conscious through the enitre crash sequence due to a pre-existing medical condition. The long pre-crash travel path and two mailbox impacts may have caused his torso to be moved both right and left but it was determined that he was seated in an upright position by the time his vehicle sideswiped the tree. This impact would have caused him to move forward and slightly to the right, relative to the vehicle interior, in response to the 12 o'clock direction of force and he may have been in close proximity to the air bag when it deployed. This impact was followed in a short time span by the final, frontal impact with the tree. On impact he continued to move forward, relative to the vehicle interior, in response to the 12 o'clock direction of force. He sustained six left rib fractures (#1, and #3-7 antero-lateral) and ten right side rib fractures/flail chest (#3-11 antero-lateral, and #8 posterior), a sternal fracture, and liver laceration probably from contact with the seat belt. He sustained transverse process fractures to the right side of L2-L5, an abdominal contusion, a left pubis fracture and a right sacral ala fracture from contact with the lap portion of the seat belt. He also sustained vertebral body fractures to T6 and T9 possible from seat belt contact. He sustained a right humerus fracture probably from contact with the center instrument panel. He sustained bilateral maxilla fractures and a C6/C7 intraspinous ligament injury probably from contact with the steering-wheel rim. Contributing factors include age, the possibility that the driver may have been out-of-position, and pre-exisiting medical conditions all contributed to the injuries sustained by this driver. The driver died as a result of injuries sustained during the crash.