Vehicle #1 (case vehicle) was a 2004 BMW 325XI, four-door sedan vehicle. There were five occupants in the case vehicle with the front right occupant being our case study participant: Driver -was a 25-year-old male/ Frontal Advanced Air bag (steering wheel mounted/dual stage/dual threshold), door mounted air bag and side curtain air bag (roof rail mounted) with a manual lap and shoulder belt (with pretensioner) were available/ Frontal Advanced Air bag did deploy (door and side curtain did not deploy) and it appears the manual lap and shoulder belt was in use (pretensioner did fire/in use). Front right passenger (case occupant)-was a 23-year-old female/ Frontal Advanced Air bag (Middle Instrument panel mounted/dual stage/dual threshold), door mounted air bag and side curtain air bag (roof side rail mounted) with a manual lap and shoulder belt (with buckle pretensioner) were available. Frontal Advanced Air bag did deploy (door and side curtain did not deploy) and it appears the manual lap and shoulder belt was in use (buckle pretensioner did fire/in use). 2nd row, right passenger-was a 21-year-old male/ Manual lap and shoulder belt were available. It appears the manual lap and shoulder belt was not in use. 2nd row, left passenger-was a 24-year-old female/ Manual lap and shoulder belt were available. It appears the manual lap and shoulder belt was not in use. 2nd row, center passenger-was a 21-year-old female/ Manual lap and shoulder belt were available. It appears the manual lap and shoulder belt was not in use. This crash occurred in the morning, on a dry (level/bituminous construction) roadway with no adverse weather conditions. This crash occurred on a three-lane roadway with one southbound lane and two northbound lanes. Just prior to the impact area the right northbound lane merges with the left. This roadway is intersected by a two-lane (side street) roadway. The involved roadway had a speed limit of 56kmph (35mph). Vehicle #1 (case vehicle) was initially traveling northbound in the right curb lane. As the northbound lanes began to merge, V1 traveled partially off the roadway (driver fell asleep) impacting a utility pole (shearing it) with its front right bumper corner. V1 then began to rotate clockwise, rolling-over three quarter turns, before traveling to its final resting position in the middle of the northbound lane (facing south) on its right side. The front right passenger (case occupant) of V1 was extricated from V1 through the windshield (due to injuries and vehicle rolled-over onto its right side) and transported from the scene to a local trauma center where she was admitted for 4 days for injuries received in the crash.