Vehicle #1 (case vehicle) was a 2003 Nissan 350Z, two-door coupe vehicle. There were two occupants in the case vehicle with the front right occupant being our case study participant: Driver was a 33-year-old male/ Frontal Advanced Air bag (steering wheel mounted/dual stage) with a manual lap and shoulder belt (with pretensioner) were available/ Frontal Advanced Air bag did deployed and it appears the manual lap and shoulder belt was in use (pretensioner did fire/in use) Front right passenger (case occupant)was a 34-year-old male/ Frontal Advanced Air bag (Middle Instrument panel mounted/dual stage) with a manual lap and shoulder belt (with pretension) were available. Frontal Advanced Air bag did deployed and it appears the manual lap and shoulder belt was not in use (pretension did fire/not in use) This crash occurred in the early morning, on a dry negative grade/bituminous, two-lane, east/west roadway with no adverse weather conditions. The involved roadway had a speed limit of 40kmph (25mph). . Vehicle #1 (case vehicle) was initially traveling westbound in a 'slight' left curve. As the driver exited the curve, V1 traveled across into the eastbound lane. V1 then traveled back across both travel lanes and slightly off road edge onto sidewalk, leaving rolling tire marks (At this point the roadway curves back to the right). V1 continues back on the roadway, across both lanes of travel and off the east road edge (tire marks continue). Once V1 travels off the roadway, it impacts a signpost, and then continues on impacting a large tree with its driver's side door before traveling to its final resting point between two trees. The tire marks from V1 were not yaw or skid marks but tire marks from steering (no braking took place during the crash sequence. The front right passenger (case occupant) of V1 was extricated from V1 (due to injuries) and transported from the scene to a local trauma center. The driver was extricated from V1 but was pronounced dead at the trauma center.