Vehicle one (V1 - case vehicle), a 2008 Chevrolet Silverado, 4-door pickup was traveling south in the left southbound lane of a divided, interstate highway. Vehicle three (V3), a 2007 Nissan Altima, 4-door sedan was also traveling south in the left southbound lane and was behind V1. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Ford Escape, 4-door utility vehicle was traveling north in the left northbound lane of the same divided highway. It was daylight, the weather was clear, and the asphalt road surface was dry. For an unknown reason, the driver of V2 lost control and veered left into the median. V2 crossed the median and entered the left southbound lane. The driver of V1 could not avoid V2 and the front of V1 struck the right side of V2. The driver of V3 could not avoid V1 and the front of V3 struck the rear of V1. V1 and V3 came to rest in the left southbound lane facing south. V2 came to rest on the left shoulder of the southbound lanes facing south. All three vehicles were towed from the scene due to disabling vehicle damage. The 63-year-old female driver of V2 was reportedly using the available three-point seat belt and the steering-wheel air bag deployed but she was pronounced dead at the scene. The 45-year-old male driver of V3 was reportedly using the available three-point seat belt and the steering-wheel air bag deployed. He was reported to have no injuries. The 25-year-old female driver of V1 (case occupant) was using the available three-point seat belt and the steering-wheel air bag deployed. She was transported via ground ambulance to a regional level-one trauma center with multiple moderate (AIS-2) injuries. The 8-year-old male left-rear passenger of V1 (case occupant) was using the available three-point seat belt. He was transported via ground ambulance to a regional level-one trauma center with multiple moderate (AIS-2) injuries. The 12-year-old male right-rear passenger (case occupant) was using the available three-point seat belt. He was transported via ground ambulance to a regional level-one trauma center with serious (AIS-3) injuries.