Vehicle one (V1 - case vehicle), a 2003 Saturn Ion, 4-door sedan was traveling south in the southbound through-lane of a three-lane, two-way road (one southbound right turn-lane, one southbound through-lane, one northbound through-lane) and was approaching a three-leg intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Oldsmobile Aurora, 4-door sedan was traveling east in the eastbound lane of a two-lane, divided road (one lane eastbound, divided median with landscaping, one lane westbound) and was approaching the same intersection as the driver of V1. It was daylight, the weather was cloudy and the bituminous road surface was dry. As the driver of V1 was passing through the intersection, the driver of V2 attempted to turn left and entered the intersection at the same time as V1. The driver of V1 attempted to avoid the collision by initially braking and then by accelerating and steering left but the front of V1 struck the left side of V2 in an oblique L-type configuration. V1 was redirected in a southeasterly direction and came to rest off the east side of the road, facing east-southeast. V2 rotated clockwise and was also redirected off the east side of the road, coming to rest facing east-southeast. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to disabling vehicle damage. The 29-year-old female driver of V1 was using the available three-point seat belt and the steering-wheel air bag deployed. She was transported via ground ambulance to a regional level-one trauma center with minor (AIS-1) injuries. The 8-month-old female center-rear passenger was reportedly seated in a forward-facing child seat, restrained by a 5-point harness, with the child seat secured to the seat via the LATCH lower anchor/stap without upper tether. She also was transported via ground ambulance to a regional level-one trauma center with no injuries. The 4-year-old female right-rear passenger (case occupant) was seated in a convertible child seat utilitized in a forward-facing manner, restrained loosely by the 5-point harness, with the child seat attached to the seat via the LATCH lower anchors but without the upper tether. She was transported via ground ambualnce to a regional level-one trauma center with serious (AIS-3) injuries.