Vehicle one (V1 - case vehicle) a 2004 Chrysler Concorde, 4-door sedan was traveling east in the eastbound lane of a two-lane, two-way rural road. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Ford Mustang, 2-door coupe was traveling west in the westbound lane of the same road. Vehicle three (V3), a 2003 Dodge Dakota Quad cab pickup was also traveling east in the eastbound lane and was ahead of V1. Vehicle four (V4), a 1997 Ford Ranger Super cab pickup was also traveling east in the eastbound lane and was behind V1. It was daylight, the weather was clear and the bituminous road surface was dry. V2 lost control and drove left of the centerline. The driver of V3 steered to the right but could not avoid being struck by V2 and the front of V2 struck the left-rear of V3. This impact caused V3 to make a controlled stop on the right shoulder while V2 continued through the impact. The front of V2 then struck the front of V1 in an offset-frontal configuration (53% vehicle overlap on V1). After impact, V2 rotated clockwise approximately 90 degrees and V2 came to rest off the south side of the road facing north. This impact caused V1 to rotate clockwise approximately 80 degrees near the centerline of the road. The driver of V4, attempted to avoid the crash occuring before him, steered left but the front of V4 struck the right side of V1 in an L-type configuration. This impact caused V1 to rotate counterclockwise approximately 30 degrees and the front of V4 struck the right rear of V1 as the two vehicles came to rest. V1 came to rest in the westbound lane facing east-southeast. V4 came to rest slightly behind V1 in the center of the road facing east-northeast. V1, V2 and V4 were towed from the scene due to disabling vehicle damage. V3 was driven away. The 64-year-old male driver of V1 (case occupant) was using the available three-point seat belt and the steering-wheel air bag deployed. He was transported via ground ambulance to a regional level-one trauma center with serious (AIS-3) injuries. The 15-year-old male right-front passenger of V1 was using the available three-point seat belt and the dash-mounted air bag deployed. He was transported via ground ambulance to a regional level-one trauma center with serious injuries (ISS-10).