This 70-year-old female case occupant was the driver of a 2003 Honda Civic that was involved in a moderately severe collision when the front of the case vehicle impacted the back of a 1984 Ford E-Series Van. The case occupant utilized the available 3-point lap and shoulder belt. The available driver front air bag deployed upon impact. The case occupant's family reported that due to her stature the case occupant sits close to the steering wheel and sits on a pillow. The case occupant's bilateral rib fractures were felt to be primarily airbag induced injuries. As the case occupant moved forward upon impact, she contacted the airbag causing the rib fractures, pneumothoraces and pulmonary contusion. There was discussion whether or not the case occupant wore the seatbelt correctly. A definitive determination of the position of the shoulder belt could not be determined, although there were no contusions showing correct placement. Contusions to her breast and chest could indicate that she had the shoulder portion of the seatbelt underneath her arm and it is felt that the contusion to her left breast and the right-sided rib fractures where due to forces of the seatbelt. Sitting on a pillow would have allowed her lower body to somewhat submarine under the seatbelt as she moved forward, possibly allowing the shoulder belt to be positioned near the thoracic spine injuries. This loading caused shearing type injuries to the body of her thoracic vertebra, vertebral discs, posterior and anterior ligaments of T5 and T6 and the spinal cord contusion. Her right arm is struck by the deploying airbag causing the forearm contusion. Her right knee contacted the steering wheel column, evident by a crack, which caused the right patella fracture and right knee laceration. Her left knee contacted the left side of the knee bolster, evident by a scuff mark, which resulted in the left patella fracture. Her left thigh probably struck the bottom of the steering wheel, which resulted in the contusion. The source of her right hip contusion was caused by loading the lap portion of the seatbelt.