The 25-year old male driver (case occupant) was operating Vehicle 1 (V1), the 2003 Hyundai Santa Fe 4-door sport utility vehicle, in the right center eastbound travel lane (4 lanes eastbound and 3 lanes westbound). He was approaching the intersection from the west. He was restrained by a 3-point lap/shoulder belt and had the benefit of an advanced frontal impact air bag and a head/thorax seat back mounted side air bag. Vehicle 2 (V2), a 2003 Jeep Grand Cherokee sport utility vehicle, was in the right hand southbound travel lane of the 5 lane north/south roadway (3 lanes south and 2 lanes north), which was the right hand only turning lane, approaching the intersection from the north. For unknown reasons, V2 did not negotiate a complete right hand turn and crossed over the cement median strip from the west bound travel lane and entered into the eastbound travel lane just west of the intersection. There were no signs of skidding from either vehicle leading into the impact area. V2's frontal plane struck V1's left side plane in an angular side impact configuration. V1 pivoted counterclockwise, about 30 degrees, and the right rear wheel contacted the curb on the south edge of the right most travel lane. V1 tipped to the right, but did not roll over, rotated clockwise and came to rest with the right front wheel against the south edge roadway curb, facing in an easterly direction. V2 rotated counterclockwise after the impact and came to rest just west of the impact area, in the right center eastbound travel lane, facing an easterly direction. As a result of the impact, V1's frontal impact driver and passenger air bags deployed and both driver and passenger side front seat mounted head/thorax side impact air bags deployed. The driver of V1 (case occupant) was removed from the vehicle and transported, by ground EMS unit to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor and serious injuries. The driver of V2 was transported by ground EMS. The extent of her injuries and/or treatments is unknown. Both vehicles were towed due to damage sustained in the crash.