The crash occurred in the eastbound lane of a two-lane roadway with an adjacent private driveway. Conditions were dusk and dry with cloudy skies at 4:38 pm on a weekday late afternoon. The roadway had a posted speed of 35 MPH and the eastbound lane had a negative 2% grade. The private driveway was dry and did not have a posted speed limit but had a negative 3% grade.

Vehicle 1 was a 1995 Plymouth Neon Sedan decelerating for the vehicle in front of him, which was making a left turn into a plaza. Vehicle 2, a 1996 Kia Sephia, was exiting a private drive to the right of Vehicle 1. The front of V1 struck the right side of V2; V2 rotated 90 degrees right. V1 swerved right then left then both vehicles came to final rest in the right lane facing east. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 45-year-old driver of the Plymouth Neon (V1) stated that he was struck on the right side and swerved to final rest in the eastbound lane. The driver of V1 sustained a laceration to his forehead and was transported to the emergency room. V1 was towed due to damage.

The driver of V1 has pre-existing health conditions such as high blood pressure and a mild case of sleep apnea. The driver also has engaged in strenuous activities however none of these factors were thought to have contributed to the crash. The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was other vehicle encroachment - from driveway turning into opposite direction; no Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle.

A 30-year-old female who did not sustain any injuries drove the Kia Sephia (V2). She stated she had come to a complete stop, looked both ways, and then entered the roadway intending on turning left. She stated she was traveling less than 5 MPH and the sun obscured her vision of V1. Her vehicle was towed due to damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was turning left, exiting a parking lot; the Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was looked but did not see. An associative factor was sun glare.