V1, a 2004 Lexus ES330, was southbound on a two-lane undivided roadway (one lane each direction) slowing to look for a parking space. V2, a 1998 Gillig Low Floor bus was traveling behind V1 on the same roadway in the same direction. It was the late hours of the evening and it was dark outside, but the straight, level, slush-covered roadway was illuminated by streetlamps. The driver of V1 noticed a parking space on the opposite side of the street and decided to make a U-turn in order to turn his vehicle around and park on the other side of the street. In preparation of making this U-turn, he pulled as far to the right side of the roadway as he could while decelerating. The driver of V2 saw V1 pull to the right and assumed that the driver of V1 would wait for the bus to pass before initiating the U-turn. As the bus began to pass V1 on the left, the driver of V1 initiated the U-turn. The front right corner of the bus impacted the left side of V1 in the opposing lane of traffic. The driver of V2 had braked and steered left when he realized what V1 was doing, and struck a legally parked vehicle that was parked on the opposite side of the street with its front left. V1 rotated back southbound and the left side of V1 came to rest against the right side of V2. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. V2 was drivable after the crash. The left rear passenger of V1 was transported to the local trauma center; the driver and other two passengers of V1 denied any injuries. The driver and 10 adult passengers of V2 denied injuries. V1 was equipped with driver, right front and side curtain airbags, which did not deploy.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V1 was when this vehicle began traveling over the lane line on the left side of the travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as an illegal maneuver, a decision error. The driver of V1 was cited for making an illegal U-turn. Several associated factors were coded to the driver of V1. First, he falsely assumed that the bus, which he knew was behind him, would stay behind him until he completed his U-turn. Second, before beginning his U-turn, he did not check his rear mirrors again to locate the bus (inadequate surveillance). Third, he was focusing on the parking space on the other side of the street (exterior distraction). Fourth, he was distracted by conversations with and among his passengers. At the time of the crash, the driver of V1 was wearing his prescription lenses that corrected a myopic (nearsighted) condition. He was taking no medications, was not fatigued, and was familiar with both his vehicle and the roadway. Police did not consider either alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no tests. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V2 was also when it began traveling over the lane line on the left side of the travel lane. The Critical Reason was not coded to the driver of V2; however, he was thought to have contributed to the crash. When the driver of V2 observed V1 decelerating and pulling over to the right, he correctly interpreted the actions of V1 as being in preparation of making a U-turn. However, he falsely assumed that the driver of V1 would wait until V2 passed V1 before initiating its turn. Further, the driver of V2 received a citation from the police for improper passing. Therefore, an illegal maneuver was coded as an associated factor, as well as a false assumption. At the time of the crash, the driver of V2 was wearing his prescription lenses that corrected a myopic (nearsighted) condition. He was taking no medications, was not fatigued, and was familiar with both his vehicle and the roadway. Police did not consider either alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no tests.

In summary, the crash occurred when the driver of V1 attempted an illegal U-turn in front of V2, whose driver falsely assumed that V1 would wait for him to pass. Associated factors (for V1) included conversation with passengers, an exterior distraction, inadequate surveillance, and a false assumption.