This is a two vehicle,intersection crash involving a light vehicle and a heavy vehicle. The intersection is controlled by operating overhead traffic lights in rural area. There are three travel lanes for each leg of the intersection. The roadways are asphalt, straight and level with no sight line restrictions and no adverse weather or environmental conditions. The crash occurred during early morning hours.

Vehicle one (V1) was a 2000 Peterbilt tractor with sleeper cab pulling an empty, end-dump semi-trailer. V1 was driven by a 46 year-old male who was coming from a landfill and was traveling to an adjacent State. V1 was traveling straight through an intersection in the number one travel lane. Vehicle two (V2) was a 2003 KIA 4 door sedan. V2 was driven by a 20 year-old female who was stopped on the westbound turn lane lane. As the driver of V2 was making a right turn onto the northbound roadway V2,'s left side was struck by the rear wheels of V1, after impact V2 rotated clockwise coming to final rest on the east shoulder facing southeast. V1 continued north coming to a controlled stop on the east shoulder. V2 was towed due to damage. V1 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 did run the red light at the intersection, an illegal maneuver. He assumed the other driver would yield the right of way to his vehicle. He drives the route several times a month, was well rested and not distracted in any manner.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into same direction. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle, since he was traveling in a straight path and V2 encroached into the side of his trailer.

The driver of V2 was the only occupant in the vehicle, and was not available for a driver interview. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning right at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (failed to look, looked but did not see). This coding was chosen based on the vehicle dynamics and location of V1's trailer that was impacted by V2. V1's trailer had almost cleared the area where the driver of V2 was traveling when V2 impacted the right side of the trailer near the rear axle. This driver failed to look far enough ahead to note that V1 was in her path of travel.