The crash occurred in eastbound lane two of a four-lane, two-way roadway. There were two eastbound and two westbound lanes. The speed was posted at 59 kmph (35 mph). There were no control signals; the roadway was straight and a -5/122 slope. The weather condition was daylight, dry, and clear.

Vehicle 1 was a 1993 Oldsmobile 88 that was westbound in lane two V2 was eastbound in lane two behind another vehicle and was traveling at a constant velocity. A non-contact vehicle was in the westbound lane one and the driver of V1 thought that this vehicle was entering her lane and drifted to the left and crossed the centerline into the eastbound lane two. The front of V1 struck the front of V2. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle #1 was driven by a 74-year-old female who stated that she was going home from dropping off a friend, and was traveling at about 59-64 kmph (35-40 mph). A vehicle had passed her on the right side. As the vehicle passed her she stated that it encroached into her lane and, as she tried to keep from making contact, she crossed the centerline. By the time she realized she was in the wrong lane it was to late to avoid V2.

Vehicle #2 a 1993 Chevrolet Pickup, was driven by a 67 year-old male, who states he was traveling eastbound in lane 2. The driver also stated that a non-contact vehicle was traveling in the same lane directly in front of him and abruptly swerved to the right to avoid V1. The driver of V2 stated he could not execute any avoidance maneuvers.

The Pre-Event Movement for V1 was going straight; the Critical Pre-crash Event was this vehicle over the lane line on the left side of the travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as inadequate evasive action. Associated factors for V1 include 13 medications the driver of V1 was taking for back pain and other sorted illness; she was wearing prescription lenses that corrected a myopic condition; she further stated that she felt tired and usually does when she wakes up.

The Pre-Event Movement for V2 was going straight. The Critical Pre-Crash event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction-over left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle. An associated factor was that the driver of V2 was taking building materials to a rental home and was talking to the passenger of his vehicle. The driver wears prescription lenses that correct a myopic condition and is taking medications for Seizures.