The crash occurred at a three-legged intersection in the eastbound lane of a two-lane suburban roadway. The northbound road approaching the intersection was controlled by a stop sign and had a 4% downhill grade. The eastbound road curved left at the intersection and had a 3% downhill grade. The roadway had a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph), though the crash occurred during a 40 kmph (25 mph) school zone time. Conditions were daylight and dry with cloudy skies. The crash occurred in the mid-afternoon hours of a weekday.

Vehicle one was a 1991 Acura Integra 3-door hatchback traveling east in lane one. Vehicle two was a 2000 Honda Civic coupe stopped facing north. V1 continued through the intersection while V2 proceeded to attempt a left turn. The two vehicles struck head on. Both vehicles came to rest in the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by an 18-year old female who was transported to a local hospital with possible injuries. She stated that it appeared V2 was trying to follow a friend driving in front of V2 who had just completed a left turn in front of this driver. V2 tried to pull out quickly in front of this driver but mistimed her maneuver. This driver estimated her travel and impact speeds to be 40 kmph (25 mph), saying she didn't have a chance to slow down. V1 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for v1 was other vehicle encroachment from a crossing street turning into the opposite direction. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. This driver was wearing corrective lenses for a nearsighted condition. She stated that she was only somewhat comfortable with this manual transmission car, and much prefers an automatic transmission.

V2 was driven by a 16-year old female who was uninjured. She was unable to be interviewed as she was not home when I called and refused to return my calls. After speaking with her father a few times, he refused the interview on her behalf and asked that not call back. The investigating officer estimated this driver's travel and impact speeds to be 32 kmph (20 mph). V2 was not towed due to police-reported damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was this vehicle traveling turning left at an intersection. The Critical Reason was a decision error consisting of misjudgment of other's gap or speed. The driver had been licensed for less than a year according to the licensing rules of this state.