The crash occurred on a two-way, two-lane road that ran southwest to northeast and is an arterial road through a residential area. The portion where the crash occurred is in a left curve with a speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph) and an advisory speed of 40 kmph (25 mph). There was one lane in each direction and an intersecting side road on the west side just immediately after the left curve began a transition to a right curve. The intersecting side road had two lanes, one in each direction. The grade at POI was level. The grade measured 23 meters south of POI was a -4 percent in a sharp dip. The crash occurred in the northbound lane on the arterial road under daylight and dry conditions in the early afternoon on a weekday.

Vehicle #1, a 1978 Chevrolet Caprice, was traveling north in the northbound lane of the arterial road. Vehicle #2, a 2003 Ford Ranger pickup, was also traveling north on the arterial road and slowing down to make a left turn onto the intersecting side road to travel west. As Vehicle #2 was decelerating and almost stopped, Vehicle #1 struck the rear end of Vehicle #2. Both vehicles came to final rest approximately 4 meters north of impact, facing north. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle #1 was driven by a twenty-one year old belted male who was on his way home from the mall. The driver was uninjured. He stated, “I was headed to the house and coming round that hook in the road and only took my eye off the road for a instant (says was looking to the right at some girls) and then she (V2) was right there in front of me. I couldn't even hit the brakes 'till after I hit her.”

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was “Other Motor Vehicle In Lane: Traveling in same direction while decelerating.” The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a recognition error - External Distraction. Some contributing associated factors are fatigue; the driver only had six hours of sleep the previous night and stated that he worked sixty hours in the seven days previous to the crash. The exterior factor was located to his right and he was also thought to have failed to look far enough ahead. The driver was also thought to be in a hurry because he stated that he was going home to eat and that he was very hungry. Although it could not definitively be coded as an associated factor due to the lack of a drug test, there was the possibility of drug usage because of a strong marijuana odor present during the interview at the driver's residence fifteen minutes after the crash was cleared.

Vehicle #2 was driven by a twenty-three year old belted female who was on her way home from school. She was uninjured and there was no airbag deployment. The driver stated, “I was on my way home from school and that other guy (V2) rear ended me.”

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was “Other Motor Vehicle in Lane: traveling in same direction with higher speed.” The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. This driver was very uncooperative during the interview and could not remember how much she slept or worked in the week previous to the crash and stated that she had come to a complete stop, although several witnesses stated that they saw her decelerate considerably but not come to a complete stop before being struck. The driver drives the road daily. She also stated that she takes a prescription medication to treat severe heartburn, but this does not affect her driving. No other associated factors were coded to this vehicle.