V1, a 1999 Mazda 626 4dr sedan with 3 occupants, was eastbound in lane 1 of an interstate, bituminous, straight, level, divided traffic way -median strip with positve barrier (trees). At the time of the daylight crash, it had been raining and the roadway was still wet. The driver of V1 reported that he was proceeding eastbound when a truck in lane 2 began to merge into lane 1 contacting his left quarter panel with it's right front bumper. V1 rotated counterclockwise across lane 2, exited the roadway into the median still rotating counterclockwise, struck a tree >10cm with it's left quarter, then spun counterclockwise to final rest facing north. (It should be noted that the truck allegedly involved, stopped and remained at the scene until the investigating officer let him go after determining that he had not impacted V1. There are photos included in the case of the semi-truck. The officer determined that V1 lost control and spun out in front of the semi truck).

All 3 occupants of V1 were transported, treated and released. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

A complete driver interview and vehicle inspection was obtained for V1. The driver was from out of state, had been driving for close to an hour and was eating at the time of the crash. He was an experienced driver, properly licensed for the vehicle and familiar with it. He was not familiar with the road but was not in a hurry. There were no indications of fatigue, emotional or work stress evident though he was eating and conversing with other occupants at the time of the crash. He had also had recent surgery to c3 and c4 but that was reported as not restricting his driving. He reported not having taken any prescribed drugs the day of the crash. No citations were issued in the crash.

The pre-crash movement for V1 was going straight, the critical pre-crash event was traveling off the edge of the road on the left side and the critical reason is unknown.

There were no indications that drugs or alcohol were a contributor to the cause of the crash.