This two-vehicle intersection crash occurred during early morning daylight hours on a five lane, dry north/south bituminous asphalt roadway. The roadway has two northbound and two southbound lanes that are separated by a continuous left turn lane. The posted speed limit on this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph) The east/west cross street has two lanes that are separated by a painted centerline stripe. The speed limit on the cross street is posted 40 kmph (25 mph). The east/west roadway is controlled by a posted stop sign that was visible at the time of the crash. There were no environmental factors that contributed to this crash. There were no sight line restrictions or obstructions noted.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1990 Plymouth Voyager passenger van driven by a 54 year-old female was traveling westbound on the cross street, when the vehicle stopped for the stop sign. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Jeep Cherokee driven by a 22 year-old female was traveling northbound on the through street in the number one lane. The vehicle had its right turn activated and was intending to make a right turn onto a cross street that was located approximately 40 meters (131 feet) to the north of the cross street where V1 was stopped. As V1 entered the intersection the front struck the left side of V2. The impact caused V-2 to rotate clockwise. The vehicle came to rest in the number one lane facing in an easterly direction. V1 came to rest in the intersection facing west. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions. The driver assumed the driver of V2 was going to turn right on the street she was occupying.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.