The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of an interstate roadway divided by a concrete barrier wall. This was an interchange area, with off-ramps on both sides of the southbound interstate. In addition to the two exit lanes, there were four through lanes, which curved slightly to the left. This was a level, asphalt roadway with a posted speed of 105 kmph (65 mph). Conditions were dark with streetlights, on a weekday evening. The roads were wet and it was raining heavily. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 2002 Nissan Altima, was traveling in lane three. V2, a 1988 Mercury Grand Marquis, was traveling in lane four (HOV lane), staggered slightly behind V1. The vehicles were approaching an off-ramp. The driver of V1 suddenly changed lanes to the left, across V2's travel path, attempting to enter the exit lane. During this maneuver, the left side of V1 made contact with the front of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. There were no injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 67-year old male. He stated that he and his wife were coming from their house to the train station to pick someone up. It was raining pretty hard. He said that he was in lane four (HOV lane), as he approached his exit, he turned on his blinker and started to move over. The driver indicated that V2 came from the exit lane, hitting him in the left passenger side of the vehicle. It is the researcher's opinion that this scenario was given in order to avoid a perceived implication of fault.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a recognition error, inadequate surveillance. The driver failed to look behind him to the adjacent lane to see if it was occupied before changing lanes. One associated factor for this driver was an external distraction. The driver had nearly missed his intended exit, and was focused on the off-ramp rather than the driving task. Associated factors include possible inattention as the driver was conversing with his passenger, the wet pavement, and the heavy rain.

V2, the Grand Marquis, was driven by a 53-year old male. The driver could not be located for an interview. The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane over the right lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. Two potential associated factors for this driver were environment related, the wet pavement and heavy rain.