This five-vehicle crash occurred in the mid-afternoon hours of a weekday in a 4-way, traffic signal controlled intersection with pedestrian signals. The northbound roadway is on a downhill grade and consists of two through lanes and two left-turn only lanes. The southbound roadway consists of two through lanes, two left turn only lanes and one right turn only lane. Both the north and southbound roadways transition to two through lanes on the far side of the intersection. The east/west roadway consists of two through lanes, one left turn only lane and one right turn only lane preceding the intersection, then two through lanes on the far side of the intersection. The roadways are all of bituminous construction and the posted speed limit for all four directions is 64 kmph (40 mph). At the time of this crash, there were no adverse weather conditions, sight restrictions or road defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a dark gray 2003 Ford F250 4WD pickup truck, was northbound in lane one. V1 did not stop for vehicle two, stopped at a red light and the front of V1 impacted the back of V2. V1 then entered lane two and the intersection. V3 had entered the intersection eastbound and had turned left and the front of V1 impacted the back right corner of V3. After the impact, with V3, V1 came to final rest in the number two lane facing generally north. V1 was towed due to damage. The restrained V1 driver, a 63-year-old male, was transported and admitted to a local hospital. There was no interview with this driver; so all known factor information is derived from the police report, medical records, vehicle inspection, crash dynamics and observations from other drivers. The police report indicated the V1 driver was speeding, and estimated the speed of V1 to be 97 kmph (60 mph) in the 64 kmph (40 mph) speed limit zone. The police report indicated alcohol was not involved for the V1 driver; however, a medical condition was being investigated as a contributing factor for this driver. Paramedics at the scene found the driver to be confused and measured the drivers' glucose level at 30, which was well below the normal range. Paramedics then administered an amp D50 and his glucose level came back up to 150 and his mental status improved. Medical records indicate the driver was currently taking the following medications: cialis, insulin, lisinopril, flexoril, hydrochlorothiazide, vytorin, aspirin, metoprolol and digoxin. The medical records indicate the driver stated he had breakfast at 0730 hours and had taken his regular dose of insulin. The driver said he forgot to eat lunch because he was preoccupied thinking about a medical appointment he was on his way to when the crash occurred. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event was attributed to driver one as a critical non-performance error: heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act. This driver had a hypoglycemic physical episode and lost control of V1. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1 and 97 kmph for V2.

Vehicle two (V2), a red 1994 Ford Explorer, was northbound in lane one. After the impact with V1, V2 entered and crossed through the intersection, departed the road at the northeast corner, and impacted a traffic light pole with its front plane. After the impact with the pole, V2 rebounded backwards about ½ meter and came to rest on a traffic island where the pole was located facing generally northeast. V2 was towed due to damage.

The V2 driver, a 60-year-old female, was transported and admitted to a local trauma center with severe injuries. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.

Vehicle three (V3), a black 1993 Nissan Pathfinder, was eastbound in lane four, the left turn lane. After the impact with V1, V3 was rotated counterclockwise, redirected into the number five southbound lane, and collided front to front with V4, who was stopped. After impact with V4, V3 came to final rest in the number five southbound lane facing generally northwest. V3 was driveable, but was towed for purposes of police investigation. The restrained V3 driver, a 56-year-old male, was not injured. V3 was not involved in the first harmful event, and the critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.

Vehicle four (V4), a white 2000 Oldsmobile Alero 2-door, was southbound stopped in the number five left-turn lane. After the impact with V3, V4 rotated clockwise and impacted the left side of V5 with its front right corner. After impact with V5, V4 came to rest in the number five southbound lane facing generally southwest. The restrained V4 driver, a 16-year-old female, was not injured. V4 was towed due to damage. V4 was not involved in the first harmful event, and the critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.

Vehicle five (V5), a 2000 Toyota Sienna minivan, was southbound in lane four. After impact with V4, V5 rolled forward slightly and came to rest in its original lane of travel facing generally south. The restrained V5 driver, a 16-year-old female, was not injured. V5 was driven from the crash scene. V5 was not involved in the first harmful event, and the critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.