The crash occurred on a two-lane east/west suburban highway with left turn lanes. The highway is intersected by two lane side streets on the northeast and southwest. Both side streets had stop signs, there were no controls on the highway. The two side streets intersect the highway near the apex of a curve. Eastbound the highway curves left with a radius of 289m. There is a tree line present on the north side of the highway that limits site distance for traffic on the side street on the northeast side of the intersection. The view from the intersecting side street is limited to 130m looking west, and even shorter looking east. Conditions were daylight and dry early on a weekend morning. The sun was beginning to rise just above the trees, but neither driver cited glare as a factor.

Vehicle #1 was a 2001 Toyota Tundra pickup traveling southwest on the intersecting side street. Vehicle #2, a 1996 Dodge Neon, was eastbound on the highway. Vehicle #1 stopped at the stop sign and then attempted to cross the highway to travel southwest. The front of Vehicle #2 struck the right side of Vehicle #1. The Neon (V2) came to rest facing east in the northeast corner of the intersection east of impact. The Tundra (V1) pulled to final rest in a private lot off the southwest corner of the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle #1 was driven by a 54-year-old male who was belted and not injured. He drove the intersection on a daily basis and was aware of its danger. He stated that during weekday morning rush hour he normally makes a right and circles around rather than trying to go straight across the intersection. Since it was a weekend he felt traffic would be lighter and he would be able to go straight across. During the interview the driver stated he looked right then left, didn't see any traffic and attempted to cross the intersection. When he was about half way across he saw Vehicle #2 coming from his right on the highway out of the corner of his eye. He saw the Neon swerve right and he slowed thinking Vehicle #2 would pass in front of him. Instead the driver of Vehicle #2 swerved left when he slowed. Vehicle #1's driver then accelerated in an attempt to get on across the intersection but was unsuccessful. The truck suffered minor damage to right rear and was driven from the scene.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was this vehicle crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a recognition error-inadequate surveillance (looked but did not see). There were no associated factors. The driver of V1 was taking medication for high blood pressure and being over weight. Possible side effects from this medication is drowsiness.

Vehicle #2 was operated by a 39-year-old female that was belted with deployed airbag. There was a passenger in the right front seat who was also belted with deployed airbag. Both were transported to an area hospital with non-incapacitating injuries. The driver stated that the pickup pulled out into the intersection and she swerved right to avoid Vehicle #1. When the pickup slowed in the middle of the intersection she then tried to brake and steer left to evade Vehicle #1. Vehicle #2 left 20m of skids prior to impact and was towed away with moderate frontal damage.

Vehicle #2's Critical Precrash Event was other vehicle encroaching from crossing street across path. No Critical Reason for the Critical Event or associated factors was assigned to this vehicle. She was taking medication for her asthma and bronchitis the possible side effect are dizziness and headaches.