The crash occurred on a level two lane undivided roadway with a posted speed limit of 35 MPH (48 KPH). This was an "S" type roadway. The first curve was to the left with a radius of curvature of 225 meters and no superelevation which entered a curve to the right with a radius of curvature of 113 meters and a superelevation of 2.5%. There were no warning signs. It was raining, the roadway was wet and it was daylight at the time of this weekend afternoon crash.

Vehicle #1, a 1990 Mazda MX6, was traveling south on the two-lane roadway. Vehicle #1 entered the curve to the left and began to rotate counterclockwise. Operator of Vehicle #1 braked and corrected to the left. Vehicle #1 began to rotate clockwise and operator braked and corrected to the right. Vehicle #1 went off the right side of the roadway and struck a 90 cm diameter tree with its front. Vehicle #1 rotated clockwise and came to rest facing in a westerly direction. Vehicle #1 was towed due to damage. Police did not consider either alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no tests. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The Mazda MX6 (Vehicle #1) was driven by a 17 year old male who was not injured. A 17-year-old female passenger in the right front seat was transported, treated and released for minor injuries. Both occupants were wearing 2-point automatic belts; neither was using the lap belt. Driver stated that he had just picked up a loaf of bread at a local grocery store and was going home. He stated that he was traveling 40 MPH when he entered the first turn and that the rear of the vehicle slid to the right. He attempted to correct by braking, steering left and then right, but ran off the road and hit a tree. He advised that he had been driving for 15 months, did not have any driver training, but was very comfortable with the vehicle. He stated he was in good health, did not wear corrective lenses and took no medications.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was that this vehicle was traveling too fast for conditions. This was chosen because it was raining and he stated he was traveling 40 MPH in a posted 35 MPH zone. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was overcompensation. This was chosen because the driver over steered to the right. Police indicated unsafe speed and slippery road surface as contributing factors to this crash. An associated factor for this driver may be driver inexperience since he had only been driving 15 months.