This two-vehicle crash occurred during mid-afternoon on a dry, downhill, four-lane, median divided, roadway that runs east to west. There was no positive barrier present at the scene of the crash. There were also no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash. The speed limit on this roadway was 89 kmph (55 mph). There was no advisory speed limit.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Ford Escape, was traveling eastbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Chevrolet Malibu was traveling eastbound in lane two. V1 was passing V2. V1 changed lanes before completing the pass of V2. As V1 entered lane two the left side of V1 contacted the right side of V2. Both vehicles deflected to the left, and departed the left side of the roadway. V1 began to rotate counterclockwise and rolled over in the median. V1 rolled towards the right and overturned 4 quarter turns coming to rest in lane two of the eastbound side of the roadway. V2 came to rest in the median facing west. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1 and 89 kmph for V2.

A twenty-four year old female drove V1. This driver is seven months pregnant. There was no interview with this driver so nothing is know about her pre-crash information. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded as a driver related factor: type of driver error unknown. This driver was passing from the right travel lane & proceeded to make the lane change to the left without enough clearance. Since the two vehicles contacted each other, this indicates a misjudgment of gap distance on the part of the V1 driver; however, it is unknown what this was due to.

The driver of V2, a fifty-seven year old male, gave a partial interview and not much is know about his pre-crash activities. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from adjacent lane [same direction]- over right lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.