This is a three-vehicle rear end type crash that occurred in the westbound lanes of dry asphalt, interstate roadway. The area where the crash occurred is a 5% uphill grade with a slight right hand curve. The roadway has two westbound lanes that are separated by a painted centerline stripe. There is a guardrail on both sides of the roadway. The speed limit on the roadway is posted at 105 kmph (65 mph). There were no environmental factors or sight line restrictions that contributed to this crash. The crash occurred just before noon during daylight hours.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 GMC Sierra Extra Cab pickup, was traveling westbound in the lane one at a documented speed of 129 kmph (80 mph). Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 Freightliner truck tractor pulling a flatbed trailer loaded with 7,315 kilograms (19,600 pounds) of produce, was traveling westbound in lane one also, ahead of V1 and traveling at a driver estimated speed of approximately 64 kmph (40 mph). The vehicle was traveling as a slower speed because of the load and the incline. Vehicle three (V3), a 1993 Kenworh tractor pulling an empty 16.2 meter long (53-foot) reefer unit, was also traveling westbound in lane two traveling at a driver estimated speed of 97-105 kmph (60-65 mph). The front axle of V3 was approximately parallel with the rear trailer axle on V2. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

As the driver of V1 approached V2, he thought he had enough room to change lanes in front of V3. The driver accelerated to a speed of 137 kmph (85 mph) as he steered left. The front of V1 struck the rear of the trailer of V2. The vehicle continued into lane two where the front of V1 struck the right side of V3. V3 was redirected to the left, crashed through the guardrail on the south side of the roadway and traveled parallel to the roadway before coming to rest facing west. After impact with V3, the landing gear on the trailer and the outside tire on axle three on V2 struck the rear of V1. V1 initiated a clockwise yaw as it passed in front of V2 where the front of V1 struck the guardrail on the north side of the roadway. The vehicle came to rest against the guardrail facing north. After the original impact with V1 the driver of V2 applied the brakes and came to rest in lane one. Boxes of produce fell from the trailer during the ride down. V1 and V3 were towed from the scene V2 was driven. The driver of V1 was transported to a local hospital. The lone driver of V2 and the two occupants in V3 were not injured.

The driver of V1 was a 67-year-old male who is familiar with the vehicle and the route traveled. He is retired and was on his way to visit a friend. He stated he misjudged the gap between his vehicle and V2 when attempting to pass on the left. He also misjudged the speed of V2. As he initiated the passing maneuver, he steered to the left and accelerated before the front of the vehicle struck the rear of the trailer on V2. At impact the vehicle was traveling 137 kmph (85 mph) according to data obtained from the vehicle. The vehicle then struck V3 less than 0.5 seconds after impact with V2. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with lower steady speed. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver decision factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed.

The driver of V2 was a 63-year-old male. He was in the process of taking a load of produce from the farm to a cooling plant. A partial interview was conducted. At the time, the vehicle was carrying 7,315 kilograms (19,600 lbs) of produce. The vehicle was climbing a long incline and was traveling at a driver-estimated speed of 64-kmph (40 mph). The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V3 was a 61-year-old-male who was on his way to pick up a load. The vehicle was traveling in the left lane at a driver-estimated speed of 97 kmph (60 mph) and in the process of passing V2 when the crash occurred. This driver did not contribute to the cause of the crash. This vehicle was not involved in the first harmful event and was not assigned a critical reason.