This crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a divided high volume, high-speed interstate with a posted speed of 105 kmph (65 mph). It was raining during early evening on a weekday night. The five straight, level, and bituminous lanes were wet as it was raining all day off and on. Traffic flow was congested due to rush hour and slower as the roads were slick from the rain. V1 was an unknown vehicle that was traveling in lane five (the HOV lane) behind V2, a 2004 Ford F-250 King Ranch Pickup truck. As V2 was preparing to change lanes into lane four she was hit from behind by the front of V1. V2 than spun out of control (counter-clockwise) across five lanes of traffic into lane one, where it came to face north (into oncoming traffic). V2 front was then struck by V3, a 2005 Ford Sport Truck, who was traveling in lane one. V1 left the crash scene after impact and no information is known about the vehicle or driver.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded as other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with lower speed. The Critical Reason was coded as unknown as it was a hit and run and no further information could be obtained regarding V1. There are no known associated factors however the rainy weather produced wet roads during rush hour traffic, which may have contributed to the crash. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.

V2 was driven by a 22-year-old female in good health who was on her way home from running errands with her boyfriend. She state that as she was about to change lanes she was hit from behind which caused her to spin out before being struck by V3. Neither occupant was injured but V2 was towed due to damages.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded as other vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason was not coded for this vehicle. Associative factors include inattention as the driver's thoughts were on a family problem (her father had recently died) and she was conversing with her passenger. V2 faced the same road conditions as V1.

V3 was driven by a 64-year-old male in good health on his commute home and wearing his prescription lenses that corrected a myopic (near-sighted) condition. He stated there was no way he could avoid hitting the truck that spun into his lane. The driver was not injured, but V3 was towed due to damages.

The Critical Precrash Event for V3 was not coded, as he was not involved in the first harmful event. Outside of the weather and traffic conditions that the other vehicles faced the only associative factor related to this driver was that he was late for a social appointment and in a hurry to get home, but he was not thought to have contributed to the crash.