This three-vehicle daytime crash occurred mid-morning during daylight hours. At an intersection comprised by a north/south roadway and a west/east roadway. The southern portion of the north/south roadway consists of five-lanes, including a left-turn pocket. The northern section of the north/south roadway consists of six-lanes, including a left-turn pocket. The west/east roadway consists of five-lanes, including a left-turn lane, for both of its eastern and western sections. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light signal that was functioning properly at the time of the collision. Both roadways were dry asphalt, free of congestion, poor weather conditions, sight restrictions, and/or road deficiencies at the time of the collision. Both roadways are designated as 56 kmph (35 mph) zones.

Vehicle one (V1) was a 1997 Chrysler Concorde sedan driven by a 69 year-old male who was traveling westbound in the number two lane. Vehicle two (V2) was a 1998 Ford Taurus sedan driven by a 70 year-old female who was traveling northbound in the number one lane. Vehicle three (V3) was a 2001 BMW 740 iL,sedan driven by a 28 year-old male who was traveling northbound in the number two lane. V3 was stopped waiting for a green light so as to enter the intersection. As the light turned green, V3 entered the intersection with V2 slightly behind it. At the intersection, the front plane of V1 contacted the right plane of V2. V2 rotated clockwise causing it to partially encroach into V3's lane the rear of V2 contacted the right rear side of V3. V1 then continued in a northeasterly direction coming to final rest on the northeast curb. V2 came to rest facing east in a gas station located on the northeast corner. V3 continued traveling until pulling over. V1 was towed from the scene, V2 & V3 were driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inattention (i.e., daydreaming). The driver of V1 was on his way home from a store errand. He stated he was zoned out (e.g., day dreaming) prior to the crash. An associative factor for V1 was disregard of the traffic signal.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street - across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.