This crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a two-way roadway with two lanes in each direction. The roadway was straight with a downhill grade of -2/61. It was daylight and clear with no adverse conditions. The speed limit for the roadway was 48kmph (30mph). On the right of the southbound lanes was a gas station and a carwash.

Vehicle # 1 was a 1996 Mitsubishi 3000GT, that was traveling southbound on the right lane. Vehicle # 2 was a 1996 Ford Windstar that was traveling northbound on the left lane and attempting to turn left into the Gas Station. Due to a sightline restriction from a non-contact vehicle, the front of Vehicle # 1 contacted the right-front wheel of Vehicle # 2. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The Mitsubishi 3000GT was driven by a 40-year old male who did not sustain any injuries. He stated that he was traveling approximately 25 mph when a mini-van traveling northbound attempted to make a left-turn. The driver stated that he tried to brake but it was too late because his sightline was restricted by another vehicle on the left-lane. The Mitsubishi 3000GT was not towed due to damage.

The Ford Winstar was driven by a 66-year old male who did not sustain any injuries. He stated that the driver of a non-contact vehicle allowed him to enter the gas station and that once he began turning, he was struck on the right-front wheel by Vehicle. # 1. The Windstar was towed due to damage.

The Critical Pre-crash event for Vehicle #1 was coded as, other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction - over left lane line. No Critical reason was coded to the driver of Vehicle # 1 because he was not thought to have contributed to the crash. The driver of the 3000GT had engaged in strenuous workout at the gym, four times a week, however he was not thought to be fatigued at the time of the crash. An associated factor was coded as a Roadway related factors, Slick surface due to soap and tire treatment residue from the carwash.

The Critical Pre-crash event for Vehicle # 2 was coded as, this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason was coded as; a decision error, turned with obstructed view.