This crash occurred at noon involving two passenger cars at a T- intersection without traffic lights. The speed limit for the primary roadway is 54 kmph (35 mph). The road is a 4-lane undivided (two-way traffic) asphalt roadway for east/west travel. The secondary leg of the intersection is a 3-lane divided (no positive barrier) uphill asphalt roadway. The secondary roadway has a stop sign posted as traffic control for the intersection, there are no controls for the east/west primary roadway. The speed limit on the secondary road is the same as on the primary roadway. The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Cadillac Sedan DeVille driven by a 33 year-old male, was traveling north in the third lane attempting to cross the eastbound lanes of traffic in order to reach a business parking lot located north of the westbound lanes of traffic. The entry gate of this facility was west of the north bound roadway. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Jeep Grand Cherokee, driven by a 37 year-old male with three passengers was traveling east in the second lane. V2 recognized V1 crossing its lane of travel. The driver tried to avoid the collision by steering to the left. V1 entered the second lane of the westbound traffic lanes. The front of V1 impacted the right side of V2.. V2 started to rotate clockwise and continued to move eastward in the westbound lanes. V2 came to rest within the westbound lanes of traffic, facing southeast. V1 came to rest within the intersection, facing north. V2 was towed from the scene. The right front passenger and the rear occupants of V 2 were transported to a medical facility with minor injuries. V1 was able to drive off the scene and enter the business parking lot. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V 1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed.

The critical pre-crash event for V 2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle..