This two-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of a two-way, five-lane roadway. Traffic signals controlled all directions of the intersection. The roadway was not physically divided for vehicle one (V1); however, there was a divider for vehicle two (V2). V1 had a slight downhill grade, but the gradient for V2 was level. The roadway was dry, and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the incident. The posted speed limit was 64 kmph (40 mph).

Vehicle one, a 2000 Ford Windstar, was traveling north at approximately 24 kmph (15 mph). V1 then attempted to make a left turn at the intersection, but contacted the left front corner of V2. Vehicle two was traveling south, at approximately 56 kmph (35 mph) intending to continue straight through the intersection. At impact, V1 spun counterclockwise approximately 90 degrees before coming to rest in the southbound travel lane. V2 continued forward before coming to final rest, also in the southbound travel lane. Both vehicles had to be towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a 50-year old female, did not suffer any injuries, nor did the passenger in the vehicle. Neither of the individuals from V1 was present at the scene upon researcher arrival. An interview with the driver could not be obtained, even after numerous attempts to contact her. The Police Accident Report (PAR) indicated that the driver of V1 was in the left turn lane, although she claimed that her intention was to continue straight through the intersection under the overpass. When traffic prevented her from accomplishing this, she decided to make the left turn. It is unclear whether fatigue, medications, or distractions played any role in this crash due to the lack of an interview. The Critical Pre-crash Event for this vehicle was coded as turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as an unknown recognition error.

The driver of vehicle two, a 26-year old female, was on-scene upon researcher arrival. She suffered from a bruise on her head and received an ice pack from EMS to reduce the swelling. The researcher attempted to conduct an interview while on-scene, however she was not "in the mood" to answer any questions. She was obviously still a bit shaken up. The researcher tried to reach her by phone, but could not get in touch with her. The Critical Pre-crash Event for this vehicle was coded as other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction - over the left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors could be coded to this driver due to a lack of an interview.