This two-vehicle crash occurred on a north/south, five-lane, dry, straight, level, asphalt roadway. This roadway intersects with a two-lane, straight, downhill roadway that is controlled by a stop sign. The posted speed limit for both roadways is 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Ford minivan, was eastbound on the two-lane roadway, waiting to turn left onto the five-lane roadway. A truck was southbound in the number one lane, slowing to turn right onto the westbound two-lane roadway. V2, a 2001 Pontiac Grand Am, was southbound in the number two lane of the five-lane roadway. As V1 turned left, the front of V2 struck the left side of V1. Both vehicles rotated and the left side of V1 was struck by the right side of V2. V1 came to rest in the southbound number two lane facing south/southeast. V2 came to rest in the turning lane and northbound number two lane facing east/southeast. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

V1 driver, a fifty-six-year-old male who is a Mexican citizen, was driving from a friend's house to his own home. He was well rested, drives this route often. This driver stated that he saw the non-contact vehicle turning right and he also saw the small red car and was sure he was going to stop.

V2 driver, a seventeen-year-old male, with his two passengers, had just left a gas station, intending to travel to another town 128 kilometers (80 miles) away. He was well rested and very familiar with his route. He was conversing with his passengers, but was cognizant of the traffic surrounding him.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was attributed to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment: from crossing street, turning in opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.