This two-vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours on a Friday at dusk. The collision occurred at a four-leg intersection comprised by an east/west roadway and a north south roadway. The east/west roadway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt and consists of seven lanes including a left turn lane. The north/south roadway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt and consists of two lanes. Both roadways are designated 56 kmph (35 mph). The intersection is controlled by a tri-light signal that was working properly at the time of the collision. Traffic turning left at the intersection is not protected by a green arrow.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1993 Chevy Cavalier 4-door sedan, was traveling east in the left turn lane approaching the intersection with the intention of turning left. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Ford F800 series straight truck was traveling west in lane 2 approaching the intersection. As V1 attempted a left turn, the front of V2 struck the right side of V1. V1 rotated counter clockwise as it traveled in a northwesterly direction and the left front struck a metal post where it came to rest. V2 came to rest in the northwest quadrant of the intersection facing northwest. Prior to impact the driver of V2 steered right and applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid the collision. Approximately 40 feet of skid marks were documented from V2. The dogleg in the skids marks from the front wheels marked the impact point. V1 was towed from the scene while V2 was driven. Two of the four occupants in V1 received minor injuries; the driver of V2 was not injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 39 year-old male. He drives the route several times a month and has driven the vehicle 2-5 times in the last three months. He was on his way to a retail store to buy toys to send to Mexico. He claimed he was not distracted and attentive to the driving task. However, he accelerated thru the intersection as an avoidance maneuver. He either misjudged the gap distance or the speed of V2 as he attempted the left turn. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related decision error: misjudgment of gap or other's speed.

The driver of V2 was a 23 year-old male who is familiar with the vehicle and the route traveled. He was returning to the company headquarters from a warehouse. He was attentive to the driving task, braked and steered right in an attempt to avoid the collision. The critical pre-crash event was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction-over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.