This collision occurred during daylight hours on a weekday. The crash occurred at a tri-light controlled intersection, and both intersecting roadways are designated 56 kmph (35 mph) zones. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse atmospheric conditions, and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1989 GMC G-2500 cargo van, was traveling westbound in the fourth lane of a seven-lane, two-way, undivided, dry, level, bituminous roadway. V1 was stopped in the middle of an intersection, and awaiting an opportunity to turn left. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Toyota Rav4, was traveling eastbound in the third lane of opposing traffic, approaching the same intersection with the intention of passing straight through. Vehicle three (V3), a 2004 Toyota Camry, was stopped facing north at the same intersection, in the first lane of a five-lane, two-way, undivided, dry, level, bituminous roadway, waiting during the red phase of the traffic light. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

As the tri-light for east/west traffic entered the yellow phase, V2 entered the intersection and V1 started its turn. The front of V1 impacted the left side of V2. V2 deflected right and entered the northbound lanes, where the front of V2 impacted the left side of V3. V1 drove away from the scene. V2 came to rest in the first northbound lane, facing south. V3 came to rest facing northeast in its original lane.

The driver of V1, an eighteen-year-old male was heading to his office from a construction site. This driver had been driving for about six minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that he pulled out into the intersection and was waiting and the light turned red. He stated that he saw V2 but he was in the middle of the intersection on a red light and he thought V2 would stop and he could turn. This driver was not licensed and had been driving for only two years. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.

The driver of V2, a forty-three year old female stated that was heading home at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about one minute at the time of the crash. This driver stated that she saw V1 stopped in traffic with its signal light activated and that she assumed it would remain stopped and allow her to pass. She entered the intersection on the yellow phase of the signal light, and accelerated through the intersection. This driver drives this vehicle daily and only rarely over this roadway.

The driver of V3, a forty-two year old female was not interviewed. There is no know information for this driver.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction, over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in first the harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.