The crash occurred in the intersection of a two-lane two-way roadway. The asphalt roadway was dry, level, and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35mph) for all directions. There are stop signs at each of the four corners before the intersection. The crash occurred on a weekday evening and the traffic was consistent and heavy.

V1, a 2003 Dodge Durango SUV, was traveling south on the roadway and stopped at the stop sign before entering the intersection. His intention was to continue traveling south. He looked in all directions before continuing and noticed V2, a 1992 Toyota 4 door Camry stopped at the corner of the intersection heading westbound. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a 38year old male, stated that he believed that he made eye contact with the driver of V2, a 53-year-old female, before he proceeded. He said that it was stop and go for several seconds, he'd take off slowly and put on brakes and then the driver of V2 would do the same. It happened a few times before he actually applied the gas and accelerated quickly. He assumed she was going to let him go first. He said that he did not have time to react or stop fast enough to prevent hitting V2. All he could do was hit the brakes before he impacted the right side of V2 with his font-end.

The driver of V2 couldn't be contacted for an interview. She was transported to the hospital for observation. She told the police that she was not injured. She was just shaken-up and scared. V2 was towed due to damages from the crash.

The driver of V1 was obviously shaken-up as a result of the crash. However, decided not to be transported to the hospital. He was more concerned with getting into a crash with his uncles car. The car that he was driving belonged to his uncle and he reluctantly gave me the interview because he had to deal with his uncle. He admitted that he had been in a few crashes before. He said that his uncle thinks that he is a bit of a reckless driver. He is familiar with the roadway and the vehicle and has been a driver for several years.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle crossing over (passing though) the intersection, and the Critical Precrash Reason was also coded for this vehicle, V1 false assumption of the other's actions. It is the researchers opinion that the driver of V1 did stop for the stop sign before entering the intersection, however, did not proceeded at a considerable speed which would have allowed him to respond to the other drivers actions. V2 was impacted on its right side at the B pillar, mid car, and the distance from the corner/ stop sign is approximately 100 ft which is enough distance to react to a critical moment.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path.