The crash occurred in the grass roadside of a two-lane, east to west, rural roadway. The roadway was level with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). Conditions were dark, dry and clear. The crash occurred in the early evening hours of a weekday.

Vehicle #1 was a 1975 Ford F100 pickup. V1 was parked in a gravel driveway facing the roadway. The driver entered the vehicle, turned it on, and then had an unknown medical emergency. The driver inadvertently engaged the transmission and depressed the accelerator, causing the vehicle to travel forward unguided. The vehicle struck a small tree followed by a post of mailboxes before traveling across the roadway. V1 then continued into the roadside on the other side of the road, striking a utility pole followed by a mobile home, where V1 came to rest. All impacts were to the front of the vehicle. The utility pole collapsed next to the truck leaving a live electric wire in contact with the vehicle. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1.

The Ford F100 was driven by a 35-year old male who was transported to a local hospital with minor injuries. He and his mother stated that he had no recollection of the crash events. The pickup was later moved to a shop across the street, but not due to damage, according to the police report.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V1 was when he approached an object (the mailbox) within the right-of-way of the roadway. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a physical impairment of the ability to act, a critical non-performance error. The driver's mother reported that he had a brain tumor removed when he was a child. She would not comment on his current mental status. Medical records indicated that when EMS personnel reached the scene, the driver was not responsive when questioned, but was awake. Brain scans revealed the old surgeries (craniotomies) but did not suggest a reason for the blackout. The driver reported that he was taking no medications. Although the police report indicated a suspicion of drug use, no tests were conducted. The driver was familiar with both his vehicle and the roadway.