The crash occurred on a secondary arterial road that runs northeast to southwest. The road is two travel lanes undivided with a double yellow stripe. It is straight with a 3% positive grade if traveling northeast. It is intersected from the east by a residential side street that is two lanes undivided. The posted speed limit for both roadways is 48kph/30mph. Conditions were daylight and dry at mid morning on a weekday.

Vehicle 1, a1997 Honda Civic was stopped waiting to turn left onto the residential side street from the southwest direction travel lane on the arterial road. As Vehicle 2, a 1986 Ford Aerostar approached, it was headed northeast in an opposing direction of travel from V1. When V2 was close, V1 attempted the left turn and was struck on the front end by the left front corner of V2. Both vehicles came to rest within a few meters of POI. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Two pedestrians standing on the southeast corner of the intersection were struck by flying debris receiving possible injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle 1 was driven by a twenty-year-old belted male who was uninjured in the crash. He was sited by police for no license, failed to yield and no insurance. His eighteen-year-old passenger was also uninjured in the crash. No airbags were deployed in this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for Vehicle 1 was This vehicle traveling: turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded as an unknown decision error as the driver did not return any phone calls and was unable to be located for an interview. No other factors could be coded.

Vehicle 2 was driven by a belted 16 year old female who was uninjured in the crash. The belted right front passenger was also uninjured in the crash. The ten-month passenger in the first position second row was listed as having non-incapacitating injuries, although she was not transported for medical treatment. The two-year-old male passenger in the second row third position was uninjured in the crash. The driver of vehicle two is the mother of both children that were in the vehicle and a stay at home mom with no driver's license.

The critical pre-crash event for Vehicle 2 was Other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle. The driver was coded as fatigued as she only gets six ½ hours of sleep per night due to child rearing duties. False Assumption was coded as a contributing factor because she (driver V2) assumed that the driver of V1 would yield the right of way. Inexperienced driver was also coded because she stated in the interview that she had been driving for less than six months.