V1, a 2003 Pontiac Vibe, was eastbound on a two-way, two-lane undivided roadway. It was the early hours of the weekday morning, dark and unlit. The statutory speed limit on the level, bituminous, slush covered roadway was 89km/h (55mph).

The 27 year-old male driver of V1, traveling approximately 64km/h (40mph), noticed an approaching curve to the right and attempted to slow his vehicle. The driver gently braked on the snowy/slushy road, but encountered an icy patch on the pavement. V1 began to swerve to the right. The driver slightly steered left to correct and v1 then began to swerve back and forth. The driver, conscious of overcorrecting, was continuing to make slight steering adjustments with both hands on the wheel, however v1 began to swerve further back and forth each time. V1 left the roadway on the right side, skidding longitudinally less than 30 degrees to the right. The nose of v1 fell over a 90-degree embankment/culvert and v1 rolled two-quarter turns to the right and came to rest on the roof in a creek. The front row seating area was completely submerged. V1 sustained damage to the top (00TYDO2). V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The fully restrained upside down driver of v1 was able to release his seat belt and unsuccessfully attempted to open the driver's door. While disoriented due to the position of the vehicle, the dark and the water, the driver then attempted to move to the front right door, but found himself in the rear cargo area and located an air pocket. The driver then opened the rear hatch and exited the vehicle with the help of a bystander. The driver denied any injuries.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V1 was when he lost control of his vehicle on the curve due to poor road conditions. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as “Environmental/highway related due to the slick icy road. A contributing factor of “traveling too fast for conditions-did not realize caution was required” was coded because although the driver knew that the road was slick and was attempting to drive at a lower speed, he did not know that there was ice and could not control v1 when he encountered it on the road. There were no other contributing or associative factors including emotional, physical or medical conditions at the time of the crash. The driver was not fatigued, and was familiar with both his vehicle and the roadway. Police did not consider either alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no tests, and the driver was not issued a citation. The driver had a valid drivers license with no restrictions or endorsements.

In summary, the crash occurred when the driver of V1, encountered ice on the slushy road, lost control, left the road on the right side, and rolled/fell over an embankment and came to rest in a creek on it's roof. A contributing factor of “traveling too fast for conditions-did not realize caution was required” was also coded. There were no associated factors coded for V1.