The crash occurred on a three lane, east /west state highway in a rural area. It had one travel lane in each direction and a center turn only lane. From the eastbound direction of travel there is a curve left (slight north) before the straight portion of road where the crash occurred. This curve terminates for eastbound traffic approximately 91 meters west of point of impact and has a radius of 387.9m. The crash occurred on the straight portion of road where it is also level. It was a weekday, shortly after the morning rush hour with no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit was 50mph/80kph.

Vehicle 1, a 1988 Ford Bronco2, was traveling east in the right lane and after negotiating the curve left, crossed left into the center turn only lane and then crossed into the westbound travel lane, striking Vehicle 2 in the left front. Vehicle 2 was a 1997 International Cab-over tractor (with sleeper) pulling an empty forty-eight foot flatbed trailer. After initial impact Vehicle1 rotated counterclockwise and rolled right two quarter turns onto its top coming to rest facing northwest in the center turn lane about twenty five meters east of impact. Vehicle 2 started to jackknife after the initial impact and came to rest with the cab facing southwest and the right side of the rear two axles on the tractor were hanging off the roadway and off of the ditch next to the right shoulder. The trailer for V2 came to rest facing west partially in the westbound travel lane and the right shoulder. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle 1 was driven by a 28 year-old belted male (determined by vehicle inspection). After a lengthy extrication process he was flown by helicopter to a local trauma center for treatment of serious injuries sustained in the crash, where he died that same day. According to his family he had just dropped a friend off after driving back that morning from a town approximately two hours away, and possibly visiting a methadone clinic in that town.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for Vehicle 1 was This Vehicle Traveling: Over the Lane Line on Left Side of Travel Lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was An Unknown Decision Error. Some Associated Contributing Factors were: Fatigue, the driver just had gotten back from a two hour drive from a town where he was believed to have been “partying” the night before according to family. Also the presence of the drug Methadone in the drivers system was believed to have been a contributing factor. An interviewed family member also believed the driver had emotional problems, but it couldn't be ascertained as to whether this had anything to do with the crash.

Vehicle 2 was driven by a belted 42 year-old male who was uninjured in the crash. He was on his way home after making a delivery and had just taken a nap in the sleeper of his truck less than thirty minutes before the crash occurred. He had had ten hours of sleep in the twenty-four hours previous to the crash.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for Vehicle 2 was: Other Vehicle Encroachment from Opposite Direction - Over Left Lane Line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. The driver of Vehicle 2 had been listening to some chatter on the CB radio just before the crash, but since the driver reported in his interview watching Vehicle 1 come at him, this was not believed to be a contributing factor. The driver's vision was corrected by glasses.