The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a two-way, four-lane tunnel, divided by a concrete wall. The entrance to the tunnel sloped downhill more than two percent. The middle of the tunnel sagged, followed by an uphill slope of greater than two percent. This was a straight, dark, asphalt tunnel, illuminated by streetlights. Conditions were morning on a weekday with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 2002 Cadillac Deville with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane one. V2, a 1999 Ford Ranger Pickup with one occupant, was stopped ahead of V1, assisting a disabled vehicle. V3, a 2001 Mercedes-Benz C320 with one occupant, was the disabled vehicle stopped in front of V2. The front of V1 made contact with the back of V2. The front of V2 then made contact with the back of V3. All three vehicles were towed due to damage. All drivers refused treatment. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

V1, the Cadillac Deville, was driven by a 36-year old male, who reported no injuries. The driver could not be reached for interview. The Critical Precrash Event was "other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a recognition error, internal distraction. The driver was talking on a cell phone at the time of the crash. The driver was also looking for something or looking down at something inside the vehicle.

V2, the Ford Ranger, was driven by a 42-year old male, who was not injured in the crash. He said that his coworker called him saying that her car was broken down. He was close by, and arrived to the scene within minutes. He confirmed that he pulled up one car length behind V3 and put his flashers on. The driver indicated that surrounding traffic was moving over to the left lane. He and the driver of V3 got out of the vehicles and pushed V3 to a distance of about three car lengths from V2. At that point, the driver said that they saw V1 approaching in the right lane, and it was not moving over. They heard brakes squealing as they jumped over the handrail to avoid being hit. The driver insisted that the driver of V1 was on a cell phone before, during, and after the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. One associated factor for this driver was a decision factor. The driver stopped in a traffic lane when not required to do so. Another associated factor was the traffic flow interruption caused by his parked vehicle in the roadway.

V3, the Mercedes C320, was driven by a 40-year old female, who was not injured in the crash. She stated that she began having mechanical problems a few blocks before entering the tunnel. The driver of V2 noticed that she was having car trouble, and motioned for her to pull in front of him. Both vehicles were now in lane one. After entering the tunnel, the driver of V3 said that her vehicle broke down completely. V2 stopped about a car length behind her. Both vehicles put on their hazard lights. The two drivers got out of their vehicles and started to push V3 out of the tunnel. The driver of V3 indicated that the driver of V1 entered the tunnel in the same lane, and it became apparent that he was not slowing down. As V3 approached, the driver of V1 said that she could see that he was on a cell phone, and was looking down at something inside the vehicle. The drivers of V1 and V2 had to jump over a handrail onto the adjacent sidewalk at the last minute in order to avoid being hit. The driver of V1 looked as if he might attempt a last second lane change, but could not due to traffic occupying that lane.

There was no Critical Precrash Event for V3. The driver was not involved in the first harmful event. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. One associated factor for this driver was the traffic flow interruption caused by her disabled vehicle.