Case Summary P43-094

This single vehicle crash occurred Friday morning on a 2-lane undivided rural roadway. The road was straight, flat, dry and conditions were clear with sunlight. The road runs north and south with the northbound travel lane congested with the early morning traffic into the city. The posted speed for both directions was 89 kmph (55 mph). Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1.

V1, a 2000 Dodge Stratus with one occupant, was traveling north approaching stopped traffic. V1 swerved to the right around a stopped vehicle in its lane and departed the right side of the road. V1 entered a ditch and impacted the embankment with its front-end plane. V1 then rolled 2-quarter turns coming to rest on its roof.

V1 was driven by a 22-year-old male driver that works at a warehouse Monday thru Friday 07:45 - 17:00 hours. His normal sleep schedule is anywhere from 23:00 - 24:00 hours to 07:00 hours and he usually feels rested when he wakes. He admitted that he had a late start this morning and was still a little tired when he left his house for an unknown reason. While he was not involved in an argument the past 12 hours he acknowledged that he frequently argues with his mother about his future plans.

He left his home this morning and drove north toward his job. After driving less than 2 miles from his home, he looked down inside his car to either grab a cigarette or change the CD (he is not certain which action he took.) Once he looked up at the road again, he saw the traffic in his lane stopped. He immediately braked and steered right causing him to depart the roadway and drive into a ditch where his vehicle rolled onto its roof. He said he unbuckled his seat belt and exited the car through the passenger door. He reported that he was not injured in the crash and refused EMS treatment, but there were visible scratches on the top of his left hand.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded: (23) this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side and the Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash event was coded: (111) as a recognition error; internal distraction because of the other non-driving activities mentioned above. Associated factors, coded to this driver, include being in a hurry since he mentioned he had a late start to the day and he had to travel 35 miles in 20 minutes to get to work on time and false assumption for believing that traffic would continue without stopping.