This two-vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane asphalt roadway with a right hand curve. The speed limit on the roadway is 89 kmph (55 mph). The two-way road is intersecting a second road that leads into a subdivision. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1989 Ford Bronco was eastbound traveling at 89 kmph (55 mph) negotiating the right hand curve. Vehicle two (V2), a 1986 Jeep Wagoneer was eastbound stopped waiting for the vehicle in front to make its left turn. As V1 negotiated the curve it saw the brake lights for V2. V1 applied the brakes and steered right. V1 departed the roadway to the right, overcorrected back to the left and rolled the vehicle one-quarter turn on to its right side. As V1 slid on its right side, V2 moved forward to avoid and the front of V1 slid into the rear of V2, a very minor impact. V1 was towed due to damage. V2 was not towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1 and 89 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a sixteen-year old male, was heading to his mothers house. This driver had only been driving on this trip for about five minutes. The vehicle was equipped with a lifted suspension and oversized tires. This driver had only been driving this class of vehicle for three months. In his interview, the driver indicated that as he was driving he was looking outside unfocused, just watching the road go by.

The driver of V2, an eighteen-year-old male was headed to a friend's house. This driver had only been driving on this portion for about five minutes. The driver of V2 stated that he had stopped so the vehicle in front of him could turn into the subdivision. This driver drives this road daily. This driver has only been licensed for two years and been driving this class of vehicle for about twelve months.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling: off the edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: external distraction.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as: not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event not coded to this vehicle.