The crash occurred in the intersection of a three-lane (one-way with a turning lane) asphalt roadway. The intersection was controlled by a red, yellow, green traffic signal that was at the time of the crash was working properly. The intersection is level, with a downhill slope to the north approaching the intersection is -1.9%. The slope of the road coming from the east is slightly uphill at a +1.1%. At the time of the crash it was dark, and dry. The southbound lane has a posted speed limit of 72kmph (45mph), and the westbound traffic has a posted speed limit of 40kmph (25mph).

Vehicle #1 a 1995 Chevrolet Lumina four-door car was traveling west in the middle lane at approximately 40kmph (25mph), coming up on the intersection, intending to go straight. Vehicle #2, a 2000 Toyota 4Runner was traveling south in the middle lane at approximately 64kmph (40mph), approaching the same controlled intersection. The driver of vehicle #1 was lost in thought and did not recognize that her traffic signal was red, and did not try any evasive maneuvers. The driver of vehicle #2 saw Vehicle #1 at the last moment and applied the brakes and steered to the right to avoid the collision but it was too late to avoid. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The front left corner of vehicle #2 contacted the right side of vehicle #1. Neither one of the two drivers had any injuries that required any medical treatment.

Vehicle #1 (Chevrolet Lumina) was driven by a 45-year-old woman, who was heading west in the center lane, without the right-of-way approaching the controlled intersection. The driver was tired, and lost in thought thinking about her daughter that she does not see enough because she works very long hours. The driver was very fatigued from work and a lack of sleep. During the interview the driver stated that she did not see that the light she was approaching was red. The driver also stated that the only thing she was thinking about was her daughter.

The pre-event movement of vehicle #1 was going straight. The critical pre-crash event for vehicle #1 was coded as crossing over (passing through an intersection). The critical reason for vehicle #1 is inattention (i.e., daydreaming). The associated factors for this driver inattention, fatigue, inadequate surveillance, and work stress. An illegal maneuver was also coded as an associated factor because this driver ran a red light. The driver of V1 was familiar with both her vehicle and the roadway. She takes no medications. The driver also stated that since she works 12hrs a day and has a 5yr old daughter, she does not get for enough sleep (usually 5hrs a night).

Vehicle #2 (Toyota 4Runner) was driven by a 50 year-old man, who was heading south in the middle lane with the right-of-way approaching the same intersection. The driver stated that he had just got off work and was heading home. The driver also stated that he saw vehicle #1 running the red light at the last second, and had just enough time to apply the brakes (without lockup) and steer to the right, but was unable to avoid vehicle #1.

The pre-event movement coded for this vehicle is going straight. The critical pre-crash event coded for this vehicle is another vehicle encroaching into lane from crossing street. There is no critical reason code for this vehicle, and he was not thought to have contributed to the crash. He was familiar with both his vehicle and the roadway. He was taking no medications. Police did not consider either alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no test for either driver, and he was not thought to have contributed to the crash. He was familiar with both his vehicle and the roadway. He was taking no medications. Police did not consider either alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no test for either driver.