This three-vehicle collision occurred in a four-way intersection. No traffic control signs or signals controlled traffic flow for the vehicles involved in the collision. This roadway is three-lane, two-way and undivided. The roadway surface is bituminous, straight alignment, and with a vertical profile of -3% slope for northbound traffic and a 3% slope for southbound traffic. The posted speed limit is 64 kmph (40 mph). No adverse weather present at the time of collision.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Hyundai Santa Fe was southbound in the second lane with the intention of going straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Saturn VUE was northbound in the second lane with the intention of turning left at the intersection. Vehicle three (V3), a Chrysler PT Cruiser was northbound behind V2 with the intention of going straight. V2 approached the intersection with the intention of stopping for traffic before turning left. V2 almost came to a complete stop; the left front bumper corner of V3 contacted the right rear bumper corner of V2. After impact, V3 continued into intersection before coming to rest in northwest corner of intersection. The force of impact forced V2 into southbound lane where the front bumper contacted the front of V1. After impact, V1 deflected into the southwest before coming to rest against some small diameter trees. V1 and V3 were towed due to damage. V2 drove home the three blocks with disabling damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-three year old female was coming from the post office and heading to get some lunch with her mother. This driver had been driving for about five minutes at the time of the crash. This driver indicated that as she was driving, she saw V2 as it approached the intersection and took her foot off the accelerator as she approached. This driver was having a social conversation with her mother, the passenger. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road several times a month. This driver indicated that she saw the turn signal for V2 was on.

The driver of V2, a thirty-six year old female was on her way back home from dropping her son off at pre-school. This driver had been driving for about ten minutes at the time of the crash. This driver indicated that as she approached the intersection she saw V1 and was going to wait for it to pass before turning left. She never saw V3. This driver indicated that she felt like she was driving on autopilot that day. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of V3, a forty-eight year old female was driving from one realty office to a second realty office. This driver had been driving for about twenty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver indicated that she did not see any brake lights or turn signals for V2. This driver was distracted internally due to looking for a food item in her vehicle and/or handling some paperwork placed on front passenger seat. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.

V1 was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was not coded to this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded to this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V3 and was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction.