The crash occurred in the eastbound lane of a two-lane (one each way) east/west, undivided highway with a posted speed limit of 89kph(55mph) and just past the apex of a long curve to the right. The radius of curvature for said curve was 335.82meters. The sight line on the curve from POI and back is 151meters, which is just within AASHTO standards. There is a side street that intersects from the north just east of the apex of the curve. The crash occurred about 20 minutes predawn on a weekday at the beginning of rush hour with no adverse weather conditions.

Vehicle #2, a 1997 Saturn SL2, was stopped in the eastbound lane waiting for the vehicle (non contact) in front of him to turn left onto the side street that intersects from the north. Vehicle #1 was a 200 Ford Escort traveling eastbound when the driver, startled by his passengers screaming, slams on the brakes and skids to impact (V1 front to V2 rear) with the stopped Saturn (V2). Both vehicles came to rest approximately 10meters east of POI still facing east in the eastbound lane. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle #1 was driven by a 35-year-old male restrained with a seatbelt. The airbags on the Escort (V1) did not deploy. The driver of Vehicle #1 stated that he was on his way home from a newspaper route negotiating the curve when his wife screamed and he looked for what she was yelling about and didn't see the other car (V2) until the last second before applying the brakes and impact. He approximated his speed before recognition at 55mph(89kph). He also stated that his “Gulf War Syndrome” affects his driving abilities so he always rides with someone else in his car to keep him awake and alert.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was Other Motor Vehicle in Lane: Other Vehicle Stopped. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was Recognition Error: Internal Distraction annotated as talking to his passenger and smoking a cigarette. Some contributing associated factors are critical non-performance-he only had 5 hours of sleep total in the last 24 hours. His most recent sleep was only 3 hours 45 minutes long and was 3.5 hours prior to the crash. He is on a prescribed medication, Paxil (60mg per day), which can make the user sleepy. He has “Gulf War Syndrome” which he states manifests the following symptoms; insomnia, irritability, and lack of concentration along with diagnosed post traumatic stress disorder. He is also undergoing testing to determine whether or not he has sleep apnea. As stated previously he was also conversing with his passenger. Another contributing factor was inadequate surveillance, failed to look far enough ahead.

Vehicle #2 was driven by a 27-year-old belted male who was on his way to work. There was no airbag deployment for the Saturn (V2). The driver of Vehicle#2 stated that he had stopped for a vehicle in front of him to turn left and just after the vehicle was making it's turn and before he had a chance to start again (had just removed his foot from the brake) he heard the tires screech (V1) and was hit from behind.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #2 was Other Motor Vehicle in Lane: Traveling in the same direction with a higher rate of speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. There were no contributing associated factors for the driver of Vehicle #2.