The crash occurred on a rural secondary arterial road that ran north/south. It was two way and had two lanes undivided and with a slight curve right (east) at the portion of road where the crash occurred. The roadway was level with a curve radius of 205 meters. There was a speed limit of 56kph/35mph. Conditions were dark, and unlit on a weekday night.

Vehicle 1, a 1994 Volvo 850, was traveling northbound on the road when it departed the left side of the road just after the apex of the curve and struck a roadside utility pole with its front and rotated counter-clockwise approximately sixty degrees before coming to final rest. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

Vehicle 1 was driven by a 34-year old belted female who was the beneficiary of a deployed airbag. The driver admitted to police and EMS that she had been drinking and had also smoked crack earlier in the evening. She claimed to have been attempting suicide.

The critical pre crash event for Vehicle 1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason for the critical event was an Other Critical non-performance, driving under the influence. Medical records show cocaine in the driver's system as well as a 0.217 blood alcohol level less than 1-hour post crash. In the interview the driver stated that she had just had an argument with her ex-husband over custody of their children. He was going to take them and not give her visitation. Emotional factors were coded because of this in addition to the fact that the driver is still undergoing treatment for emotional problems and is currently taking prescriptions for the emotional unbalance. In the drivers interview she stated that she was attempting suicide. The police report indicated that the driver's seat belt was used in the crash. In the interview the driver stated that she was doing at least 50mph at time of impact. It is possible that she saw the crash coming and was indifferent to any avoidance actions but the researcher does not believe the crash was deliberate. Unfortunately the driver became uncomfortable with the questions (as she was charged with DUI and has a court date pending) so poor directional control was the only other associated factor coded.