This two-vehicle crash occurred during early evening hours on a dark but lighted, four-way traffic controlled intersection. One roadway runs east/west while the other runs northwest/southeast. The east/west roadway is a two-lane undivided roadway that is bordered by bicycle-only lanes and parking lanes on the section west of the intersection. The northwest/southeast roadway consists of five lanes. The northwest travel lanes, south of the intersection, are comprised of two lanes that eventually open up to three lanes for a left turn only lane. North of the intersection, this roadway becomes two lanes again. The southeast travel lanes, north of the intersection, consist of two lanes that eventually open up to three lanes for a left turn only lane. South of the intersection, this roadway becomes two lanes again. The speed limit on the road is 56 kmph (35 mph). There were light flurries falling at the time of the crash, causing the roadway to be wet.

Vehicle one (V1) a 2003 Acura 3.2 TL sedan carrying one occupant, was traveling northwest in lane two. Vehicle two (V2) a 1995 Chevrolet Astro Van carrying one occupant, was traveling east in lane one. Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the front of the Acura contacted the front right corner of the Astro Van. After impact, the van rotated counterclockwise and the Acura rotated clockwise. Both vehicles came to rest near the northeast corner, facing approximately northbound, nearly parallel to one another. A small fire began in the engine compartment of the Astro Van. This was safely extinguished by the fire department. The driver of V1 was a 61 year-old male received a non-incapacitating injury and was transported to a medical facility. The vehicle was towed due to damage. The driver of V2 was not reported as injured according to the accident report, but during the interview, he did complain of general soreness in his legs. The van was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 had been driving for approximately twenty years. He received his driver training in Korea, but had been driving in the United States for many years. He had owned his vehicle for less than two years, but was familiar with it. He was also familiar with the roadway, driving it nearly everyday to and from work. The driver had worked an 8-hour day and was on his way home. He had been awake for eleven hours after having slept for nine hours the previous night so fatigue was not considered a factor.

The driver of V2 had been driving for approximately five years. He was familiar with the vehicle, but not with the roadway. He was on his way home from work and took another route for unknown reasons. The driver had worked a 10-hour day and had been awake for twelve hours after having slept for eight hours the previous night, so fatigue was not considered a factor. He did indicate that he had not received a day off from work over the past twenty-three days.

The driver of V1 did not speak English, so his son translated for him. The son stated his father had the green light and proceeded into the intersection. According to the police report, the driver of V2, and a witness, the driver of V1 drove through the red light. Due to the communication barrier with the driver of V1, it is undetermined whether he chose to proceed through the red light or failed to notice it. The driver of V2 and the witness also claimed the driver of V1 was traveling somewhat above the speed limit, roughly 56-64 kmph (35-40 mph).

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: illegal maneuver, for disregard of traffic signal.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.