This is a two vehicle intersection related crash that occurred during morning daylight hours on a two lane, two way dry asphalt roadway. The roadway has one northbound and one southbound lane. The lanes are not separated. The speed limit on the roadway is posted 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred in a t-type intersection within a urban neighborhood. There are no traffic control devices to control the intersection. There were no environmental factor that contributed to this crash and there were no sight line restrictions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Jeep Cherokee 4x2, driven by a 57 year-old female with one passenger was traveling southbound within the southbound half of the roadway approaching vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Dodge flatbed with trailer which was stopped on the right side of the roadway. When the driver of V1 was passing V2, V2 then pulled out from the parking spot and began to make a left turn onto a cross street. The front of V1 impacted with the left rear of V2. The impact caused V1 to rotate counterclockwise coming to rest within the intersection facing in southeasterly direction. V1 was towed from the scene; the driver was transported to a local medical facility and the passenger was not injured. V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from adjacent lane (same direction)- over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V2 was a 35-year-old male traveling with a 22-year-old co-worker as the right front passenger. He had just picked up the passenger and they were on their way to a job site. The driver had pulled over to the right curb and was looking down at paperwork on the seat for an address just prior to making the left turn & did not realize V1 was passing his vehicle on the left side. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason was coded to V2 as a driver recognition factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). The drive initially had an internal distraction while looking for the directions and another vehicle forward and to his left. He made the situation critical when he entered the travel lane without looking in the side mirror to see if traffic was approaching from behind.