A five-vehicle crash occurred in the morning daylight hours on an eastbound three-lane urban expressway. The expressway consists of three eastbound lanes that go into a slight right curve. Shoulders border the roadway, and to the north is a concrete median that separates these lanes from the westbound lanes of the expressway. The speed limit on the expressway was 89 kmph (55 mph). There was traffic congestion due to morning rush hour, and the weather conditions were clear.

Vehicle one (V1), a 5-axle configuration of a 2005 International 9900 model tractor & 1998 Manac semi-trailer with one passenger, was traveling in lane one (the far right lane). Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Honda Civic with two passengers, was in lane one stopped in traffic ahead of vehicle one. Vehicle three (V3), a 1997 Oldsmobile Bravada with one occupant, was in lane one stopped in traffic ahead of vehicle two. Vehicle four (V4), a 2002 Saturn L300 with one occupant, was in lane one stopped in traffic ahead of vehicle three. Vehicle five (V5), a 2005 Nissan Sentra, was in lane one stopped in traffic ahead of vehicle four. However, due to the parameters of this study only V1, V2, and V3 were thoroughly studied and these drivers were interviewed. All five vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a twenty-nine year old male who has been driving commercial trucks for less than six months. This driver had never driven on this road before and was uncomfortable with the surrounding traffic densities. For this trip he had departed from a truck stop one hour before the crash occurred, and was on his way to drop off cargo in his trailer. The cargo consisted of hockey pucks & plastic parts and had a weight of 5,959 kgs, or 13,137 lbs. He had 6 hours and 45 minutes of last sleep in his sleeper berth, and had been awake nearly four hours when the crash occurred. He also stated that he was looking for his exit that was approaching, and regularly looking at a map to identify his exit. Federal Motor Carrier Safety inspectors performed a level-4 inspection of V1 and no vehicle violations were discovered. This inspection included brake measurements and they were determined to be within the proper adjustment range. The vehicle was equipped with a satellite radio system that was on at the crash and may have caused some inattention on the driver's part. The driver stated he was accelerating in the stop & go traffic and was in 2nd gear when the forward traffic suddenly stopped and he could not avoid the initial impact with V2. The driver was looking too far ahead for his exit and at his map and not directly in front of him to realize that the forward traffic had stopped. He estimated his gap distance was 3.7-meters (12-feet) at the time he realized the forward vehicle had stopped & he attempted to avoid the collision. Due to his inattentiveness, interior & exterior distractions he misjudged both the speed and gap distance of the forward vehicle and also made a false assumption that the forward traffic would continue to proceed. The Critical Pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle traveling in lane: other vehicle stopped. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded to vehicle one as a driver recognition error: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see). This was due to the driver looking at his map while also looking ahead for his exit.

The drivers of V2 (a 29 year-old female), and V3 (a 36 year-old male) had both stated that they were stopped for five to ten seconds due to the traffic congestion. The driver of V2 said that she was listening to the radio while on her way to a graduation ceremony While V2 was stopped in traffic the driver observed the truck (V1) in her rear view mirror. She said it looked like the truck was going 40 kmph (25 mph) and did not try to slow down until it was too late. The Critical Pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle traveling in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded to V2 as: critical event not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V3 did not speak English and an interview was obtained through a surrogate for this driver. He was on his way to work and stopped in the traffic when his vehicle was hit from behind. The Critical Pre-crash event for V3 was coded: other, not involved first harmful event. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded to V3 as: critical event not coded to this vehicle.