This five-vehicle crash occurred in southbound lanes of a 4-way signalized intersection. The intersection was controlled by pre-timed traffic signals without pedestrian crossings and a speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph) for the north and south lanes. The conditions were clear, dry, daylight and it was the late afternoon on a weekday.

Vehicle 1 (V1) was traveling in lane 5 of 6 northbound lanes toward this intersection. V2, V3, and V5 were all traveling south toward the same intersection. V1 made a left turn across V2's path and caused the two vehicles to collide. V1 spun off of the roadway and came to rest on the southwest roadside of the intersection. After V2's initial impact, it spun 180 degrees and was struck in the front by V3.V3 came to final rest in the intersection. V2 continued traveling toward the southwest corner of the intersection where it struck V4, which was stopped for the red signal. V5 was struck by debris from the previous events. Only V1 and V2 were towed due to damage but all five drivers were transported to a local trauma center. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

V1, a 1996 Saturn SW, was driven by a 44 year-old male that could not be reached for an interview. The medical report states this driver is homeless and the police report recorded a false address and phone. He suffered serious injuries and was hospitalized for 9 days. He was cited for driving under the influence of an unknown substance with the results of a BAC test pending.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded: this vehicle turning left at an intersection and the Critical Reason for the Event was coded: illegal maneuver.

V2, a 2003 Dodge Ram 2500, was driven by a 30-year-old male driver that works as a Parts Manager at a local car dealership. He left work this evening and stopped at a bookstore to pick up a book for his wife. As he drove his truck south in the back of 8-10 cars, he approached this intersection with a clear sight line to all traffic. Just before he entered the intersection, a northbound vehicle (Saturn) made a sharp left-turn across his path, causing this driver to brake hard in an attempt to avoid a collision. This driver could not stop in time to prevent a crash. The front of his truck struck the right side of the Saturn and then struck another two vehicles in an unknown manner. His truck came to final rest against the southwest curb of the intersection.

This driver said he clearly saw the driver of the Saturn as he crossed his path and noticed that the other driver never looked in his direction. Once this driver realized the other driver was not going to stop, he thought to him self 'I can't believe this is happening' and braked hard. His left hand was on the steering wheel and his right hand was gripping the center console during the crash sequence. He was in a good mood when he left work and was looking forward to sharing a dinner with his wife and kids.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroaching from opposite - over left lane line and the Critical Reason for the event was not coded to this vehicle.

V3, a 2003 Chevrolet Cavalier, was driven by an 18-year-old female that could not be reached for an interview. The Critical Precrash Event for was coded: not involved in first harmful event and the Critical Reason for the event was not coded to this vehicle.

V4, a 1999 Chrysler Concorde, was driven by a 26-year-old male and V5, a 1993 Honda Civic, was driven by a 16-year-old female.