This two-vehicle crash occurred during early evening hours in the Northeast corner of a large four-way intersection. This intersection is controlled with traffic control signals with pedestrian crossing signals. The roadway is straight; the surface was dry traffic polished asphalt. The weather was clear, dry, and it was dark with overhead streetlight's. The posted speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph).

Vehicle one a 1988 Buick Regal coupe driven by a 66 year-old female was traveling westbound in lane one, which turns right to the north, when the driver realized she needed to be in lane two, to continue traveling straight. She changed lanes to the left and stopped for the red light. She recalls noticing the vehicle to the left of her, she looked up and saw a green light, possibly the left turn arrow, and she proceeded forward into the intersection, at the last minute prior to impact the driver applied the brakes, and believes that there was full ABS application. The front right corner of vehicle one impacted the right side front of vehicle two. Vehicle one came to rest in the intersection facing northwest. the vehicle was towed due to damage. Vehicle two a 1998 Toyota 4-Runner driven by a 44 year-old male was at a light facing eastbound in lane three, (the left turn lane) when the traffic control signal changed to a green left turn arrow. In the intersection vehicle two was impacted in the right side front and passenger area by the front right of vehicle one. Vehicle two came to final rest facing north in the intersection. The vehicle two was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was attributed to V1 as a driver related factor: Illegal maneuver, for disregard of traffic signal. Associative factor for vehicle one, possible emotional factors weighing heavily on her mind, due to concerns in her personal relationships. And possible fatigue issues, as she was a little tired and worn out from cleaning her son's house.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction-over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.