This three-vehicle crash during the morning daylight hours on a five-lane, undivided, dry, straight, bituminous, level roadway. This roadway runs north to south and intersects with a two-lane, downhill, bituminous roadway that curves to the right and runs east to west. The intersection was controlled by a stop sign for the eastbound lane. The speed limit on the main road is 72 kmph (45 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Mazda Protégé was facing east and was attempting to turn left at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Chevrolet K1500 was traveling southbound in lane one. Vehicle three (V3), a 1990 Kenworth 800 dump truck was stopped in lane three facing southbound. V3 was stopped to allow V1 to enter the intersection. V1 turned left at the intersection and was impacted on its left rear by V2. V1 rotated and its front plane impacted the front plane of V3. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. V3 was not towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-five year old female was not interviewed. The drivers of V2 and V3 indicated that this driver was looking to the right when the crash occurred. This driver never cleared the traffic to the left.

The driver of V2, a thirty-five year old male was out running errands and had been driving for about ten minutes. This driver drives this road daily and in this vehicle daily.

The driver of V3, a fifty-five year old male was working and had been on this portion of the trip for an unknown time. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this route daily.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.