This two-vehicle crash occurred in the second lane of a 4-lane undivided roadway. The roadway runs east and west with two lanes for each direction. The posted speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph) and the road has a negative 3% slope. The weather conditions were clear, sunny, dry, and it was the morning of a weekday.

V1 and V2 were both in the eastbound lane; V1 was stopped and V2 was traveling behind it. The front of V2 struck the back of V1 causing both vehicles to be towed due to damage. The driver of V1 was transported to a local trauma center for minor injuries and no other injuries were reported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1 and 0 kmph for V2.

V1, a 1997 Saturn SC1, was driven by a 33-year-old female. She did not participate in the study and declined an interview. She was stopped in front of her home waiting to turn left into her driveway. Her Saturn was struck in the rear while she was waiting in her lane.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction while decelerating and the Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V2, a 1998 Dodge Neon, was driven by a 27-year-old female. She is a single mother of three children and her driver's license is revoked for failing to pay to court fees on previous traffic violations. This morning started like every other day, she dropped off her son at school and then she drove toward her children's daycare. On her way to daycare, the car (V1) in front of her suddenly stopped. She says everything happened so fast she cannot recall exactly what happened, but she tried to stop before she struck the car in front her. She said there was a moderate level of traffic on the road at the time of the crash and all the other vehicles were driving at the same speed, 30-40 mph. She is not certain if she was blinded by the sun glare, but she thinks its possible the sun may have contributed to the crash. She claims it all happened too fast for her to remember every detail.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane stopped and the Critical Reason was coded: inattention. Associated factors also coded for V2 included sun glare as an environmental contributing factors. The images taken on scene support the sun glare issue and 35 meters of precrash skid marks indicate that V2's driver was not tailgating but rather not paying attention for an unknown reason.