This two vehicle crash occurred mid-afternoon at a four way intersection. The intersection is controlled by traffic signals for all directions of travel. There are also left turn lanes on all sides of the intersection. There were no adverse weather conditions that contributed to this crash. There no roadway deficiencies and no sight line restrictions noted. Posted speed limit 72 kmph (45 mph).

Vehicle one (V1) was a 1988 Dodge Ram van being driven by a 41 year-old male with one passenger. V1 was traveling eastbound approaching the intersection in the number two lane. Vehicle two (V2) was a 1996 Chrysler Town and Country van being driven by a 84 year-old male. V2 was traveling eastbound in the number two lane when the vehicle entered the left turn lane intending to make a left turn to travel southbound. The two vehicles collided in the intersection with the front of V1 impacting with the front of V2. The impact caused V2 to rotate clockwise and travel through the intersection in a southerly direction. V2 then came to rest in the south crosswalk of the intersection facing south. V1 rotated counterclockwise after the impact and came to rest facing southeast in the intersection. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

The critical pre crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction, over the left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

The critical pre crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the pre crash event was coded to V2 as a driver related factor: Inadequate surveillance (e.g. Failed to look, looked but did not see). The driver of V2 stated that he did not see any other vehicle in front of his vehicle. The driver also stated on several occasions throughout the interview that he was struck from behind. This driver takes the medication Namenda (Memantine), which is prescribed for moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease. He also takes the medications Aciphex and Zoloft.