The crash happened just past noon. The location was a four lane divided (without positive barrier, seven lanes overall) straight roadway. Road surface asphalt the weather was clear and the road dry. Posted speed limit 56 kmph (35 mph). Four vehicles involved in crash, two passenger cars a SUV and a pick-up truck. The traffic was stopped and backed up for a traffic light.

Vehicle one (V1) a 1985 Honda Accord driven by a 32 year-old male was traveling west in the third lane of traffic. Vehicle three (V3) a 2001 Toyota Land Cruiser driven by a 71 year-old male and Vehicle four (V4) a 1995 Ford Ranger driven by a 75 year-old male were slowing down in lane four. Vehicle two (V2) a 2004 Volkswagen Passat driven by a 24 year-old male with one passenger was decelerating in lane three. The traffic light west of the crash site was green, but the line of cars did not yet move in front of these vehicles. V1 was traveling in lane three approaching the slow moving traffic ahead. The driver fell to sleep at the wheel. The last thing he remembered was seeing the green light at the intersection ahead of him. V 1 continued to drive west. The front of V1 impacted the rear of V2. V2 moved forward. V1 left lane three and moved into lane four where it impacted the rear of V3. V3 was pushed forward and impacted the rear of V4. V1 was towed from the scene, the other three vehicles were driven, no one was transported for injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating . The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: sleeping, this is actually asleep. The driver told the researcher at the scene that he had been moving his household to a new residence for the last 29 hours. He did not get any sleep. He tried to stop for a short rest at a church parking lot located a block away. When he was told to leave the lot by security, he entered the roadway to look for another public parking lot to sleep. There was no cargo seen inside the vehicle that would indicate a move of any kind of household goods. The driver's license showed an address about 9.3 kilometers (5.79 miles) driving distance southwest of the crash site. The driver paid the tow-truck driver to tow the vehicle into that direction. The appearance of the driver looked more like the driver attended a party or other kind of social event.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed . No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle.

V3 and V4 were not involved in first harmful event. The critical event was not coded to either vehicle.