A two-vehicle crash occurred in the late morning hours in a four-way tri-light controlled intersection. This intersection is a bituminous asphalt straight level roadway. The east side of the intersection is a four lane divided roadway without positive barrier. There are three westbound lanes and one eastbound lane. The westbound lanes consist of a right turn only lane, a through lane and a left turn only lane. Construction cones blocked the right turn lane. Further east of this intersection this roadway is a two-lane roadway that becomes a four-lane roadway before the intersection. The speed limit for this road is 48 kmph (30 mph). The south side of the intersection consists of four lanes. The northbound lanes consist of a right turn lane and a through/left turn lane with no markings. The speed limit for this roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph). There were no adverse weather conditions and/or sight restrictions at this crash location. The traffic signals were operating properly at the time.

Vehicle one (V1) is a 1997 Buick LeSabre four-door sedan. Vehicle two (V2) is a 1999 BMW 528I four-door sedan. V1 was traveling westbound approaching the collision intersection. V2 was traveling northbound approaching the same intersection. As V1 approached the intersection it traveled into the left turn only lane to attempt a left turn to go southbound. As V1 entered the intersection on a red light the front of V2 struck the left side of the vehicle. V1 continued (coasting) to a final rest facing south in the first southbound lane south of the intersection. V2 came to a final rest in the intersection just north of the center of the intersection. V2 was facing north/northeast. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A witness traveling behind V1 stated that the light for westbound traffic had turned red. The north and southbound traffic had begun to travel through the intersection. The driver of V1 tapped her brakes (the witness observed the brake lights come on briefly) and continued with her left turn. He further stated that the driver of V2 had no chance to avoid the crash. During an interview, the driver of V1 stated that there was a "big truck" in front of her and she was following it through the intersection. She stated she waited on him to turn and she followed him into the intersection. She further stated that she must not have seen the light turn red due to the truck's size. The driver of V2 and the witness denied the presence of this truck.

The driver of V1 is an 87-year-old female who is familiar with the vehicle and the route traveled. This driver claimed a large truck in front of her blocked her view of the traffic signals as she entered the intersection. She claimed she was stopped for an unspecified length of time before entering the intersection. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e. g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

The driver of V2 is a 51-year-old female who is familiar with the vehicle and the route. She was attentive to the driving task. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, tuning into opposite direction. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.