This two-vehicle crash occurred at dawn on a cloudy morning on a westbound, expressway consisting of four-lanes with paved shoulders bordering the travel lanes and a short concrete jersey barrier adjacent to the left shoulder separating the four westbound lanes from eastbound traffic. To the right of the roadway was an uphill grassy roadside. Prior to the crash area, there was an exit ramp, but this did not play a role in the crash. The eastbound section of the expressway did not play a role either. The roadway was dry, straight, level, of concrete construction, and had a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Chevrolet Cavalier four door carrying three occupants, was traveling westbound in the third lane. The V1 driver stated that he swerved to his right into the #2 lane to avoid a large semi-truck in the #4 lane that had encroached into his lane and the front of V1 struck the rear of V2. After this impact, V1 was redirected on a northwest trajectory and entered a clockwise rotation, applied left steering correction, departed the right side of the roadway in a counterclockwise rotation as it entered the grassy roadside, and struck a wooden sign post with the right rear bumper corner. V1 came to rest partially on the right shoulder and partially on the grassy roadside facing generally south. V1 was towed due to damage but the driver and occupants were not injured or transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Ford F-250 pickup with work box bed and storage racks carrying one occupant, was traveling westbound in the first lane. After the impact with V1 the V2 driver stated that he was able to maintain control and pulled off onto the right shoulder. V2 was not towed and the driver was not injured or transported. The V2 driver stated that as he had been traveling approximately 89 kmph (55 mph) in the #1 lane, had checked his mirrors and then merged into the #2 lane approximately 2 to 3 seconds before his vehicle was struck in the back by V1.

The V1 driver, a 20-year-old male, had been driving without a license for approximately five years. He stated that he had only been driving legally for about two months at the time of the crash. Though he had received nearly four hours of sleep prior to the crash, this last sleep period had taken place over a day before the crash. The V1 driver had been awake for nearly twenty-eight hours at the time of the crash, having not slept in the last twenty-four. The V1 driver had started a new job and worked a five-hour shift, which had commenced at midnight. Upon finishing the shift, he then picked up his sister and dropped her off at a church lock-in. Fatigue is considered a factor for this driver. The driver of V1 reported that prior to the crash he was driving at 64 kmph (40 mph). Since V2 was driving ahead of V1, it would not have been possible for V1 to strike V2 if V1 was traveling at 64 kmph (40 mph). It therefore appears that the driver of V1 was incorrect about his speed and driving faster than V2's reported speed of 89 kmph, or 55 mph. The large semi-truck that encroached into his travel lane externally distracted the driver. He steered to the right to avoid the semi without adequate surveillance of the vehicles in the adjacent right lane. By doing this overcompensation to avoid the semi at the speed at which he was traveling, the driver exhibited poor directional control and was unable to avoid an impact with V2. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on right side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded to V1 as a driver related performance factor: poor directional control.

The driver of V2 was a 37-year-old male who had been driving for approximately twenty-one years. He was familiar with both his vehicle and the roadway. He stated that he had changed from the #1 lane to the #2 lane and been in the #2 lane for about 2-3 seconds before he was impacted from behind by V1. The The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to V2.