The one-vehicle crash began on the curved section of a two-lane north/southbound cobblestone undivided roadway. The south/north two-lane roadway was wet, and level. Planted in the cobblestone road were metal trolley tracks in cement in both directions of the roadway. The posted speed limit was 40 kmph (25mph) for both directions. There were no traffic-controlled signals. The crash occurred in the mid afternoon on a weekday. It was raining and the cobblestone roadway was wet and slippery. Traffic flow was normal.

Vehicle 1, a 2005 Chrysler Sebring, was traveling southbound on the slippery cobblestone road when she attempted to avoid contact with another vehicle. While negotiating a curve to the right, she traveled off the road and struck a pole with its front left and the wall with its right back side. The pole was 16 meters in diameter and the wall was 40 meters high. V1 was lodged between the pole and the wall facing south at final rest. V1 was towed due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1, a 21-year old female was visibly shaken. She said she was driving south and was aware of the cobblestone and how slippery it gets when it rains. Her travel speed she said was approximately 48 kmph (30mph). She was attempting to avoid contacting another vehicle to her left and turned to the right while traversing a curve right and lost control because the cobblestone, was wet. The driver first, was not interested in being transported to the hospital. However, deciding after her mother arrived at the scene to be transported.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event was coded control loss due to rain and wet cobblestone, while negotiating a curve. The Critical Reason was as a decision error driving to fast on wet cobblestone while traversing a curve. The associated factor is driving slightly over the speed limit. Another associated factor is the road design; possible speed limit and the surface condition of cobblestone when wet. This road has been paved over with asphalt since this crash.