The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes and median of an east/west, four-lane US Highway divided by a grassy median. There were two travel lanes and shoulders on both sides of the eastbound lanes. The roadway alignment was a long curve right (south) with a measured radius of 1210 meters. Eastbound the right shoulder was paved and the left shoulder was also paved but very narrow with no rumble strip before the grassy median/ditch. The posted speed limit was 89 KPH/55 MPH. The crash occurred under dark and dry conditions in the pre-dawn hours with no lighting. The side slope into the grassy ditch on the left side of the northbound lanes near the runoff road point was measured as 14.5 percent. The grade measured at POI/road departure from the first section of median was +25 percent and the side slope measured at the trip point in the second section of median was +20.8 percent (the area in the median where the crash occurred was divided by a crossover to give access to the westbound lanes of the highway).

Vehicle 1 was a 1996 Volvo 850 GLT station wagon traveling eastbound on the US Hwy in the left travel lane. It departed the left side of the road and went down into a ditch, impacting the positive grade slope for the highway crossover. Vehicle 1 went up the slope while rotating counterclockwise and when it landed on the median on the opposite side of the crossover, the vehicle tripped and rolled four quarter turns, coming to rest on its wheels facing north. Vehicle 1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

Vehicle 1 was driven by a 23-year old belted male who was the beneficiary of deployed airbags. He sustained minor injuries and some slight disorientation due to the crash, but refused medical treatment by EMS. He disclosed to the researcher in the interview that he had been drinking alcohol and smoking marijuana three hours prior to the crash, but hadn't had any drugs since then.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling off edge of the road on the left side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was a critical non-performance error: sleeping, that is actually asleep. The driver had not slept in the twenty-four hours prior to the crash and was coded as being fatigued. Additional associated factors coded to the driver include alcohol use, illegal drug use, use of an allergy medication, an unnamed sleep disorder, and the driver being in a hurry to get home.