This three vehicle daytime collision occurred just past noon during daylight hours. The collision occurred at an intersection comprised by a north/south roadway and an east/west roadway. The south portion of the north/south roadway consists of eight lanes. These lanes include a northbound number one and number two lane that must turn right. The northbound number three lane is a "proceed straight-only lane." The northbound number four lane proceeds straight and allows a left turn. The northbound number five lanes is a left-turn pocket. The north section of the north/south roadway consists of four lanes. Both sides of the east/west roadway consist of six travel lanes, including a left-turn pocket. The north and south edges of the east/west roadway contain bike lanes. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light signal that was functioning properly at the time of the collision. Both roadways were dry, asphalt free of congestion, poor weather conditions, sight restrictions, and/or road deficiencies at the time of the collision. Both roadways are designated as 56 kmph (35 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Chevrolet Silverado pick-up driven by a 35 year-old male with three passengers, was traveling in the westbound number three lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Chrysler LHS sedan driven by a 33 year-old female with four passengers, was traveling in the eastbound number two lane of the eastbound, Vehicle three (V3), a 2001 Chevrolet Malibu sedan driven by a 22 year-old female, was stopped in the northbound number two lane of the northbound roadway. As V2 entered the intersection, V1 made a left turn from the "straight only" number three westbound lane. The front plane of V2 contacted the right plane of V1. V1 rotated counter-clockwise causing its right plane to impact the left plane of V2. V2 then proceeded to travel in a southeasterly direction towards V3. The front plane of V2 contacted the front plane of the V3. V1 came to rest facing southeast near the south crosswalk. V2 came to rest facing southeast blocking the northbound number two and three lanes. V3 came to rest facing northbound in the number two lane. Vehicle one was towed with moderate damage. Vehicle two was also towed with moderate damage. Vehicle three was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was engaged in conversation with the passengers about a future event. They were traveling from their residence to a restaurant. The driver indicated that he drives the road several times a month and had looked but did not see V2 prior to the impact. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: Inattention (i.e., daydreaming). The driver was engaged in conversation and not paying attention to the driving task. He did not realize he could not make a left turn from his travel lane and had previously observed a vehicle forward of his vehicle turn left, so he assumed it was safe for him to follow suit. He failed to yield the right of way to V2. An associative factor for V1 was an illegal maneuver for turning left from a designated straight travel lane.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction-over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.