This two-vehicle intersection related crash occurred in the morning daylight hours on a two-lane, undivided, two-way, bituminous roadway that intersects at a "T" intersection with a two-way two-lane road to the south. The roadway was wet because it had just started to rain. The primary roadway runs east/west with one lane in each direction and is slightly curved. There are no traffic controls for the east/west roadway and a stop sign is posted for the intersecting northbound travel direction. The posted speed limit on the east/west roadway was 72 kmph (45 mph).

Vehicle one (V1) was a 1997 Infinity Q45 that was traveling west and negotiating a curve to the right. The driver of V1 intended to make a left turn at the intersection. The driver of V1 stated that as he approached the intersection, his vision shrank to tunnel vision and he blacked out. V1 crossed the double yellow lane line and its front contacted the front of vehicle two (V2). V2 was a 2005 Lexus ES330 that was traveling east negotiating the curve to the left. Post impact V1 rotated clockwise and departed the north side of the roadway and the front of V1 impacted an embankment where it came to rest. After the first impact V2 deflected to the right and departed the south side of the roadway and came to rest facing east on the upslope of an embankment. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, and sole occupant, was a 51 year old male. He had been awake for four hours after adequate sleep. He performed strenuous recreational activities of playing tennis for three hours prior to this trip and takes the medication Mavik for high blood pressure. He blacked out while driving his vehicle. Medical records indicated that low blood sugar may have been why the driver blacked out even though he had not been diagnosed as being diabetic. The driver was very familiar with the vehicle and the roadway.

The driver of V2 was a 32 year old female who was traveling with her 7 year old son. She came over the rise in the hill and V1 was in front of her vehicle. She was on her cell phone talking with her sister and was not in a hurry. She was on an errand from home to meet with family members. This driver has hypertension and takes the following medications: Toprol, Zoloft and Prilosec.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related critical non-performance factor: heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.