A three vehicle daytime collision occurred just before noon on a Saturday. The collision occurred on a five-lane, undivided, dry, level, asphalt roadway. Both the north and south edges of the roadway are bordered by parking lanes. The west/east roadway is designated a 35 mph (56 kph) zone.

Vehicle one (V1) is a 2005 Ford Focus ZX5 four-door hatchback that was traveling west in the number one lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1990 four-door Honda Accord, was a not-in-transport vehicle that was legally parked along the north edge of the roadway in a designated parking lane. A third vehicle, a 2003 four-door Chevrolet Monte Carlo, was also not-in-transport and legally parked along the north edge of the roadway in front of V2. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

As V1 was traveling, it entered the north edge parking lane. The front plane of V1 contacted the rear plane of V2. The front plane of V2 then contacted the rear plane of the legally parked not-in-transport vehicle in front of it. V1 came to rest facing west in the parking lane. V2 came to rest facing southwest in the parking lane. Vehicles one and two received major damage and were towed.

The driver of vehicle one refused to be interviewed due to pending criminal charges and intoxication. A Drug Recognition Trained (DRT) police officer determined the driver was under the influence of a narcotic analgesic, a depressant, and a stimulant. Alcohol test results were negative. There were no pre-crash avoidance skid marks indicating that the driver of V1 did not maintain lane control of the vehicle.

Vehicle one's Pre-Event Movement was coded "Going Straight." The Critical Event was coded "This Vehicle Traveling: Over the Lane Line on the Right Side of Travel Lane." The Critical Reason was coded driver related performance factor: "Poor Directional Control (e.g. failing to control vehicle with skill ordinarily expected)." The driver being under the influence of a narcotic analgesic, a depressant, and a stimulant were factors attributed to poor directional control of the vehicle by the driver.

Case Note: V3, as shown on the scene diagram, was a legally parked vehicle that was not-in-transport. Because it was impacted by V2, another legally parked vehicle not-in transport, the NMVCCS case structuring and event rules prohibit structuring V3 in the case as a vehicle. In addition, all events between the two legally parked not-in-transport vehicles are not coded into the case.