This crash occurred just past noon. The weather was clear and the road surface bituminous and dry. The crash occurred at a "T" intersection with the through street a six lane, divided, north/south roadway. The speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph). The secondary street intersects at a 90-degree angle from the west and is a two way, two lane asphalt roadway. The speed limit for this roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). Traffic eastbound is controlled by a stop sign before entering or crossing the six-lane roadway.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Infiniti G 20 was stopped at a stop sign. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Nissan Frontier Pick up truck, was traveling south in the third lane V1, after stopping for the stop sign, attempted a left turn into the northbound lanes of traffic. While crossing the third lane of southbound traffic, the front of V2 impacted the left side of V1. V1 rotated clockwise and came to rest within the third lane of traffic. V2 came to rest within its original traffic lane. The frontal air bags in vehicle 2 deployed at impact. V2 was towed from the scene. The left front wheel on V1 was restricted; a relative of the driver was able to drive the vehicle across the street to a gas station located east of the intersection. The vehicle was towed away later. The driver of V1 was not injured; the two occupants in V2 were transported to a local hospital. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 17-year-old female student who possesses a valid driver's license . She had driver training in high school and has been driving for one year. She had just purchased the vehicle the day before the crash. She told police and fire department personnel she waited for about 3 minutes at the stop sign before proceeding into the intersection. The driver was not able to provide any information about the traffic flow. She did state there was no view obstruction. She claimed she was not in a hurry, not conversing, in good health, not taking any medication, and no hearing deficiency. She stated she had a clear view of approaching traffic from her left. She was wearing glasses to correct for a myopic condition. Sleep and fatigue factors are unknown as is her trip plan. It is unknown if she had been involved in any arguments She was not conversing and claimed she was not involved in any non-driving activities. There was no involvement of alcohol or drugs.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed. This inexperienced driver attempted a left turn in front of cross traffic. She saw approaching traffic, and she claimed she was at the stop sign for approximately 3 minutes so she had sufficient time to judge the speed of cross traffic. The impact location and final rest positions of the vehicles at the scene dictate that this driver did not accelerate rapidly across the intersection. This driver had limited experience, possibly became impatient and was driving a vehicle she had just purchased the day before the crash.

The driver of V2 is a 64 year-old male who possesses a valid license with no restrictions or endorsements. He is retired and does not work. He was going from a grocery store to his residence, a distance of 1.6 kilometers (1 mile) when the crash occurred. He drives the route twice a week and is familiar with the vehicle that he stated was in good condition. He was not in a hurry, was not conversing, not distracted, no arguments and had no concerns with family, employment or personal relationships. He stated he was in good health, has no hearing deficiency, not taking and medication and was wearing corrective lens at the time. He slept 12 hours the night before and had been awake for approximately 2.5 hours prior to the crash. His sleep schedule is related to his social schedule since he does not work. There was no alcohol or drug involvement. He claimed to be well rested prior to the start of this portion of the trip. He was looking straight ahead and applied the brakes before the front of his vehicle struck the left side of V1.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.