This crash occurred on the southbound lanes of a five-lane undivided urban highway. There were three southbound lanes that included a left turn lane for the traffic signal-controlled intersection. Conditions were dark, but the roadway was illuminated and dry in the mid-evening hours on a weekend. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 48 KMPH (30 MPH) and the southbound lanes were straight and level. The crash occurred on a weekend during the hours of darkness.

Vehicle #1 was a 2002 Hyundai Accent 2-door hatchback driven by a 65-year old female. She was traveling in the first lane of travel, approaching a four-way intersection controlled by a traffic signal. V2, a 1997 Nissan Pathfinder was stopped for a red light in the same lane at the intersection ahead of V1. The driver of V1 stated that she looked to her left at a retail store while braking, thinking that V2 was quite a distance ahead of her. She estimated that she had enough room between her vehicle and Vehicle #2 as she slowed down to the intersection. She stated she probably didn't apply enough braking force, and the front of V1 struck the rear of V2. The driver of V1 was wearing her lap and shoulder seatbelt. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V1 was when another vehicle was in her lane stopped at the intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as an external distraction. This was chosen because the operator of V1 stated that she was looking at a store to her left as she approached the rear of V2. She also stated that she thought that V2 was farther ahead of her than it actually was. Because of this, she was also coded as misjudging the gap distance to V2. Another associated factor coded to this driver was inadequate evasive action. By her own admission, she did not apply sufficient pressure to her brake pedal. The driver of V1 reported that she was taking four medications: an unknown diabetes medication, a cholesterol-lowering medication, an anti-inflammatory, and an antidepressant. Only the antidepressant had the possible side effects of dizziness and tiredness. She did not wear glasses for driving. She stated she was two-third's deaf in both ears but could not afford hearing aids although her driving license had a restriction on it indicating that she should be wearing hearing aids. She was familiar with both her vehicle and the roadway. Police did not consider alcohol to be involved and ordered no tests.

The driver of V2 was a 23-year old male with a 29-year old passenger in the front right seat. Both driver and passenger stated they had minor injuries to the head/neck areas. The driver stated that he was at the intersection waiting for the light to change with one hand on the gearshift and one hand on the steering wheel. He had one foot on the accelerator pedal and one foot on the clutch pedal thereby indicating his brake lights were not engaged, possibly an associated factor in this crash. The driver and occupant were both restrained by lap and shoulder belts.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V2 was when another vehicle was in his lane, traveling in the same direction, but at a higher speed. The Critical Reason was not coded to the driver of the Vehicle #2 and he was not thought to have contributed to the crash. At the time of the crash, he was talking to his passenger about family matters while waiting for the traffic signal to change to green. This conversation was not thought to have had an impact on the crash, as the driver was engaging in no driving activity at the time. The driver was in good health and did not take any medications. He was familiar with both his vehicle and the roadway.