The crash occurred in the southbound lane of a two-lane highway with a T-intersection. Conditions were daylight and dry with cloudy skies in the mid-afternoon on a weekday. The roadway had a posted speed of 45 MPH and the southbound lane had a negative 2% grade.

Vehicle #1 was a 2003 Ford F350 super duty extended cab pick-up traveling south. Vehicle #2 was a 2004 Honda Civic coupe EX traveling south in front of V1. V2 was braking and drifting to the right side of the road then tried to make an illegal left-handed U-turn. V1 steered left but the front right corner of V1 struck the left side of V2. V1 pushed V2 across the road coming to final rest just south of the impact. V1 was facing south and V2 was facing north. After coming to final rest, V2 drove up and over a median to get out of the way of oncoming traffic. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle 1 was driven by a 34-year-old male who sustained minor injuries and did not receive any medical attention. He had stated that he was traveling south when he saw the other vehicle (V2) in front of him braking and drifting towards the right shoulder. V2 then attempted to make a U-turn and the driver of V1 swerved left. The driver of V1 was traveling less than 40 MPH. V1 was driven from the scene.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was when another vehicle encroached into his lane from an adjacent lane over the right lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to the driver of V1 was a false assumption of the road user's actions. The driver of V1 assumed that the driver of V2 was pulling off the road to the right and that he would stay there until he (V1) passed. V2 had been braking on and off for some distance, and it is possible that the driver of V1 was getting “fed up” with V2's erratic behavior and wanted to believe that V2 was pulling off to the side of the road so that V1 could pass him. The driver of V1 was wearing his prescription glasses that corrected a myopic (near-sighted) condition. The driver of V1 was taking an allergy medication that had the possible side effect of drowsiness but this was not thought to have contributed to the crash. He was familiar with the roadway and his vehicle.

Vehicle 2 was driven by a 17-year-old male who was treated by EMS at the scene for minor injuries but was not transported. The driver of V2 stated that he was lost so he decided to move to the shoulder then make a U-turn. He did not see the white truck behind him and was struck on the left side then pushed to final rest across the roadway. He stated that he was traveling less than 5 MPH at the time of impact. V2 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event was when V2 went over the lane line on the left side of the travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was when V2 attempted to negotiate an illegal maneuver (U-turn) in front of V1. Inattention was coded as an associated factor because the driver of V2 admitted that he was lost. Consequently, he was thinking about this fact rather than focusing on the driving task. Similarly, an exterior distraction was coded as an associated factor - he was busy looking around for his intended destination. Inadequate surveillance was also coded as an associated factor - had the driver of V2 checked all his mirrors, he would have seen V1 approaching. Finally, while the driver of V2 was familiar with his vehicle, this was the first time he had driven on this roadway. This helps explain the fact that he was lost, looking around for his intended destination, and inattentive to the driving task.