This two-vehicle collision occurred in the northbound lanes of a five-lane, divided, dry, straight, level interstate roadway with a posted speed limit of 97 kmph (60 mph). It was dark at the time, but lighted and there were no adverse weather conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Beaver Motor home, was traveling northbound on the roadway in lane four. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Toyota Corolla, was traveling northbound in lane three. V1 changed lanes to the right and the front right corner struck the back left side of V2. V2 rotated counterclockwise and traveling left across lanes four and five. V2 then traveled off the left side of the road and the front and the right side struck the median concrete barrier. V2 came to rest on the shoulder facing southbound and was towed due to damage. V1 was not towed due to damage.. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a forty-eight-year-old male, was not interviewed and the vehicle could not be located for an inspection.

The driver of vehicle two, a thirty-four-year-old female, was driving from a friend's house to her home. She was very familiar with the route and her vehicle and was well rested. She was preparing to change lanes to the left. When she looked in her rearview mirror to ensure that the left lane was clear, she saw V1 and believed that it was "going really fast for a bus." She did not recognize that V1 was changing lanes so she did not attempt any avoidance maneuvers.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on right side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical event was attribute to V1 and coded as: unknown reason, unknown reason for critical event. This was due to the lack of driver interview or vehicle inspection of V1.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from adjacent lane (same direction)- over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.