The crash occurred on an east/west residential arterial road at an intersection with a crossing side street. Both roads were two-way, two-lane roads with double yellow stripes leading to the intersection. North/south traffic was controlled by stop signs, while east/west traffic had no traffic control device. The arterial road was straight and level in the area involved in the crash. The southbound approach to the intersection on the crossing side street had a measured grade of +2 percent. The crash occurred in the early evening on a weekday during rush hour. Conditions were daylight and dry. The posted speed limit on the arterial road (Vehicle 2) was 64 KMPH/40 MPH and the posted speed limit on the crossing side street (Vehicles 1 and 3) was 48 KMPH/30 MPH. There was some tall grass on the northwest corner of the property bordering the intersection.

Vehicle 1, a 1995 Dodge Intrepid, had stopped at the stop sign on the southbound approach to the intersection on the crossing side street. It then accelerated across the intersection and was struck in the right side by the front of Vehicle 2, an eastbound 2004 Cadillac CTS. Vehicle 1 then rotated clockwise about 45 degrees and its left side contacted the front left corner of Vehicle 3, a 1998 Thomas school bus that was stopped northbound on the side street. Vehicle 1 came to rest facing west against the front corner of the school bus. Vehicle 2 came to rest about 8 meters east of POI still in its travel lane facing east. The school bus never moved. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed due to damage. Vehicle 3 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle 1 was driven by a 56-year old male who was belted and whose frontal airbags did not deploy. There was also a 47-year old female who was belted in the right front seating position. Both occupants were transported to a local hospital for treatment of non-incapacitating injuries. The driver of Vehicle 1 claimed to be under some stress at this point in his life and believes that he suffers from undiagnosed sleep apnea.

.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for Vehicle 1 was coded as "This vehicle traveling: Crossing over (passing through) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as inadequate surveillance - looked but did not see. Fatigue was coded to this driver as an associated factor because he reported that he did not rest well at night and was under treatment for another sleep disorder for which he takes medication. The medication was supposed to help him sleep longer with fewer interruptions. He also takes an anti-depressant, a few blood thinners for his blood pressure, and an allergy medication. Although the driver wore glasses that corrected his hyperopic condition and astigmatism, he also had a condition that caused his eyes to cross without his glasses and see double of everything. He felt that this, in combination with the arm of his glasses, may have partially blocked his view and prevented him from seeing Vehicle 2 approaching from his right. He was also under some emotional stress due to the fact that he had been job-hunting for the last six months with no success. An exterior factor was coded, because the driver was communicating (via hand signals) with the driver of the bus that was stopped at the intersection.

Vehicle 2 was driven by a 28-year old belted male whose airbags deployed and was uninjured in the crash. The Critical Pre-crash Event for Vehicle 2 was coded as "Other vehicle encroachment: From crossing street, across path." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors included an exterior factor; the driving was looking for a street that he intended to turn onto.

Vehicle 3 was driven by a 47-year old belted male whose vehicle was not equipped with airbags. He was uninjured in the crash. Neither the Critical Pre-crash Event nor the Critical Reason was coded to Vehicle 3 because it was not involved in the first harmful event. Associated factors coded to the driver of Vehicle 3 included prescription medications for high blood pressure, an on-going conversation with a passenger, and unfamiliarity with the roadway.