The crash occurred on a two-way, straight, bituminous road at an intersection controlled with an on-colors traffic signal on a cloudy weekday afternoon. V1 was traveling eastbound approaching the intersection in lane 3 of 5 lanes, with a positive grade > 2%, and a posted speed limit of 72 kmh (45mph). V2 was traveling westbound approaching the intersection in lane 2 of four lanes, with a >2% negative grade, and a posted speed limit of 56kmh (35mph). The traffic signal was green for both directions.

V1, a 1989 Pontiac Grand Prix driven by a 47 year- old male, turned left in front of V2. V2, a 1993 Saturn SL2 driven by a 21 year-old female, was going straight through the intersection. The driver of V1 had no avoidance maneuvers. The driver of v2 braked without lock-up and steered right. The front of V2 struck the right side of V1. Both vehicles rotated clockwise and came to rest facing east and were towed from the scene due to damage. The unrestrained right front adult female passenger, and the two unrestrained children in the rear seat of v1 were transported from the scene due to injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to the driver of V1 was 'this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was 'Driver related factor-inadequate surveillance (failed to look far enough ahead before turning left). The driver of V1 was cited for 'Failure to yield right of way” and for driving with 'Unrestrained child passengers.'

A Contributing Factor of strenuous non-work activities was coded for this driver due to the fact that he was moving and had loaded his possessions into his vehicle for 1.5 hours prior to the crash. The driver is overweight and has high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and diabetes which affects his foot requiring him to wear an orthopedic boot which was on at the time of the crash. Another Contributing Factor was coded for possible side effects for his daily medications for his health issues, which include insulin and unspecified blood pressure and cholesterol medications.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to the driver of V2 was 'Other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction - over left lane line' and the critical reason for the critical event was coded 'Critical reason not coded to this vehicle'.