The crash occurred on a six-lane, straight, east/west, urban roadway with no shoulders that was intersected by private drives on the north and south. Westbound, there were two through lanes with a right turn lane into a shopping center and a center lane that serves both directions. The private drives on the north and south sides of the road are entrances to businesses and have stop signs present. Conditions were daylight and overcast during the midmorning hours on a weekday. The posted speed on the highly traveled road was 72 kmph (45mph).

Vehicle #1 was a 1997 Hyundai Sonata southbound on a private drive attempting to go straight across the six lanes into a separate private drive on the south side of the road. Vehicle #2, a 1983 Ford F-150 pickup, was westbound in the left lane. Vehicle #1 attempted to cross the road and was struck in the left side by the front of Vehicle #2. After impact Vehicle #1 rotated counterclockwise and the Hyundai (V1) driver's foot remained on the accelerator. Vehicle #1 eventually came to rest facing north 75m north of impact in the private drive that it had exited. The Ford pickup (V2) came to rest in the center turn lane 15m west of impact facing west. Both vehicles were towed due to severe damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle #1 was driven by a 69-year-old female that was hospitalized for three days with "B" injuries. She was belted and the frontal airbags did not deploy in the side collision. In the interview she stated she was on her way to a job interview and realized that the business was on the south side of the street. She pulled off into a shopping center on the north side of the road to turn around so she could go straight across into her intended destination. She said she waited in the private drive for a lengthy amount of time for traffic to clear before looking both ways and attempting to cross the six lanes. She reported that she was not in a hurry and that she was early for her interview.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was "This vehicle traveling-crossing over (passing through) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a recognition error - inadequate surveillance. She said she looked but never saw the other vehicle. The driver of V1 was taking an unknown prescription diuretic at the time of the crash. She wore glasses to correct an unidentified vision condition. While familiar with her vehicle, she reported that she rarely drove on that roadway.

Vehicle #2 was operated by a 66-year-old male that was belted and not injured in the crash. In the interview he stated that Vehicle #1 pulled out in front of him and although he left 16m of pre-impact skids, he couldn't avoid a collision.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #2 was "Other vehicle encroachment from driveway, across path." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The driver of Vehicle #2 was taking a prescription medication (for a gastric condition) that did not have known performance-impairing side effects. He was wearing prescription lenses to correct a hyperopic (far-sighted) condition.