The crash occurred on a two-way, two lane, rural, slag road with a statutory speed limit of 89kmh (55mph). Conditions were clear, dark, unlighted and dry on the straight and level road, in the late evening hours at the beginning of the weekend. V1, a 1983 Ford Crown Victoria, was traveling westbound when it left the road on the left side and the front of v1 struck and broke a small metal sign post and then struck a utility pole. V1 came to rest facing southwest against the pole. The wooden utility pole (26cm diameter) remained upright, but a high voltage wire at the top of the pole was knocked loose and hung below the remaining wires. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage.

The driver of v1, a 50 year-old male, was transported from the scene due to injuries and for the police to obtain a blood alcohol level. The adult female passenger also was transported with the driver. The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was 'this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side.' The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as a recognition error of 'internal distraction', as the driver was engaged in kissing the passenger in the center front seat prior to and at the time of the crash. The driver left the state and was not available to be interviewed. The passenger stated that neither of them knew that the vehicle had left the road until it struck the pole. There were no avoidance actions. Coded, as a Contributing Factor was 'driver related factor/other critical non-performance' due to alcohol involvement. The blood alcohol level of the driver was tested at a local trauma center where the report indicated that there was 'acute alcohol intoxication'. An Associated Factor coded for this driver was “driver inattention-thinking of a future event' as the couple was on a date and looking for a place to park. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver was familiar with his vehicle and drives that roadway every once in a while with the same passenger. No vehicle defects were found during inspection. Police coded 'speed too fast' on their report as a Hazardous Action, but did not issue a citation for speeding. The driver was not fatigued, reported no stress related issues, or medical conditions per passenger and was not in a hurry. The driver was properly licensed with no restrictions.