This two-vehicle collision occurred during morning daylight hours on a weekday. The crash occurred at the four-leg intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway. The speed limit for eastbound and westbound traffic is 64 kmph (40 mph), and the intersection is controlled by a tri-light traffic signal with no protected left phase. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse atmospheric conditions and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Honda Civic four-door sedan, was traveling westbound in the fourth lane of a seven-lane, two-way, undivided, dry, level, bituminous roadway, about to turn left at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Honda Accord four-door sedan, was traveling eastbound in the second lane of opposing traffic, approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. As V1 made its turn, the front of V2 impacted the front of V1. Both vehicles deflected southeast to final rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 47-year-old male driver of V1 did not provide an interview, but he reported to police that he did not observe V2's approach. Another vehicle directly in front of him executed the same left turn, and he turned as well assuming clear traffic. Inspection revealed that V1's tires were under-inflated. The critical precrash event for V1 was: This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver related recognition error, inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

The 25-year-old female driver of V2 reported that she was in a hurry to get to work, as she was late for the start of her shift. She reported to police that another vehicle turned safely in front of her as she approached the intersection, and as she entered the intersection, the tri-light began the yellow phase. She saw V1's turn signal, but did not expect it to execute its turn as she passed through the intersection. An associative factor of false assumption is attributed to V2. V2's tires were also found to be under-inflated. The critical precrash event for V2 was: Other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over left lane line. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.