This two-vehicle collision occurred during the night hours in a 4-way intersection that is controlled by stop signs for north and southbound traffic and has no traffic controls for east and westbound traffic. The east/west roadway is not divided, is 2-way, consists of 2 lanes, is straight, level and of bituminous construction and has a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). The north/south roadway is also not divided, is 2-way, consists of 2 lanes, is straight, level and is of concrete construction and has a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The northbound roadway approaching the stop sign has an uphill grade of 10 percent. At the time of the crash it was dark, but the weather was clear and the intersection was illuminated by street lights. There were no adverse weather conditions, road defects, or sight-line restrictions at the crash scene.

Vehicle one (V1), a gold 1988 Chevrolet Caprice 4-door sedan with two occupants, was traveling east in lane one approaching the intersection intending to go straight. The V1 driver, an unrestrained 18 year old male entered the intersection and the front of V1 and left side of vehicle two (V2) collided. After impact, V1 entered a counterclockwise rotation, continued through the intersection on a generally east trajectory and came to final rest to the east of the intersection across both traffic lanes facing generally northeast. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a green 1999 Chevrolet Tahoe with one occupant, was traveling north in lane one and stopped at the stop sign. The V2 driver, a 21 year old male, entered the intersection intending to turn left and the left side of V2 and front of V1 collided. After impact with V1, V2 departed in a counterclockwise rotation on a northeast trajectory and came to rest partially off the roadway at the northeast corner of the intersection.

V1 and V2 were both towed due to damage.

Associative factors: The length of V1's approach skid marks indicate that V1 was traveling at a high rate of speed. The V2 driver did not see V1 or notice any approaching headlights. The V1 right front seat passenger stated that V1 was traveling at a high rate of speed and that V1's headlights may have been off. He also said that he had heard reports that a hit and run collision involving V1 had occurred a short time before this crash, but added that he does not believe V1 was involved in a previous collision. The V1 driver had a Blood Alcohol Level of 0.141 and is also below the area's legal age to consume alcohol.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others (Specified as: well in excess of speed limit, at night, into an intersection, possibly without headlights on).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason was not coded to V2.