This three-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of a four-way intersection, which was controlled by traffic signals in all directions. The east/west roadway consisted of 5 lanes at the intersection, whereas the north/south roadway consisted of six lanes at the southern end and five lanes at the northern end. The grade for all vehicles involved was level except for vehicle one which was slightly downhill. The posted speed limit for the east/west roadway was 64kph (40mph) and the posted speed limit for the north/south roadway was 72kph (45mph). The incident occurred during daylight hours during a moderate rainfall.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 black Chevrolet Malibu, was traveling east at approximately 16kph (10mph) intending to make a left at an intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 black Acura 3.5RL, was traveling west at approximately 64kph (40mph), intending to continue through the intersection. Vehicle three (V3), a 2005 red Honda Civic, was stopped at a traffic light in the southbound lanes. As V1 attempted to make the left at the intersection, the front of V2 struck the right front of V1. The impact caused V1 to spin counter-clockwise in a backwards motion approximately 270 degrees. Vehicle two continued forward and to the right, and ultimately struck the left front of V3 before coming to final rest. Vehicle three was pushed slightly to the right before coming to final rest. All three vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

The driver of vehicle one was taken to the hospital for injuries including, but not limited to closed head injuries, and abrasions. A complete interview was obtained from the driver. The driver claimed that he was stopped in the middle of the intersection waiting to make a left turn. At first he did not see the approaching vehicle (V2) because of a hill. When the vehicle came into view, the driver stated that V2 was at least 150 yards away. This occurred when the light, a steady green at the time, changed to yellow. The driver of V1 then stated that he thought the light would change to red, and that the other vehicle would stop. He offered that after the light turned to yellow, V2 must have slammed on the accelerator, because there was nothing he could do to avoid the collision. The driver of V1 told the researcher that he was on prescription medication at the time of the incident. The medication prescribed to the driver was to help an irregular heartbeat as well as high cholesterol among other ailments. No fatigue related factors were thought to have played a role in this crash. The Critical Precrash Event coded to vehicle one was: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The reason for the Critical Precrash Event was coded as: misjudgment of gap or other's speed.

The driver of V2 had unknown injuries, but did not require transport to a medical facility. A partial interview was obtained from the father of the driver for legal reasons. According to the surrogate, vehicle two was intending to continue through the intersection. Vehicle one had all of the sudden made a left directly in from of vehicle two, and there was nothing that could have been done to avoid the collision. No fatigue or medical related factors were thought to have contributed to this crash. The fact that the driver was inexperienced may have played a role. The Critical Precrash Event coded to vehicle two was: other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over left lane line. The reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V3 did not suffer any injuries as a result of the crash. An interview could not be obtained from this driver, however the role of this driver was that of an innocent bystander. No Critical Precrash Event, nor a reason for such, was coded to this vehicle since it was not involved in the first harmful event.

NOTE:

It should be noted that although the driver of V1 claimed a roadway grade that prevented him from seeing the other vehicle in time, it is the opinion of the researcher that there was not a significant grade for vehicle two, which would have caused this.