This two vehicle crash occurred mid-afternoon at a on-colors controlled intersection during daylight hours. No adverse weather conditions at the time of accident. Roadway at collision location is a dry, concrete roadway. Pre-crash roadway east/west initially is a 6-lane divided roadway with a 3% negative slope that turns into a 5-lane divided roadway. Initial pre-crash roadway east is a negative sloping 3-lane bituminous undivided roadway that levels off and turns into a concrete surface prior to intersection, which after the intersection, turns into a positive sloping 6-lane divided roadway. Posted speed limit 64 kmph (40 mph).

Vehicle one (V1) a 1997 Chevrolet Cavalier 2-door coupe, driven by a 17 year-old female was traveling westbound in lane 3 that turned into lane 2 (yield on green left turn only). Vehicle two (V2) a 1994 Pontiac Grand Prix 2-door coupe, driven by a 17 year-old male was traveling east in between lanes 1 and 2. As V2 was traveling thru the intersection, the left front side was struck by the front of V1. V1 rotated counterclockwise before coming to rest facing south. V2 continued forward to final rest approximately 2 meters (6.5 feet) from the area of impact. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: inattention (e.g., daydreaming). Driver inattentiveness was a result of not being very familiar with roadway, being lost, failing to adequately survey the roadway far enough ahead and gaining line of sight around other vehicles. The driver also failed to recognize that right of way had to be given to oncoming traffic despite having a green light. Also, driver's attentiveness to driving may have been impaired by the medications Trileptal & Midrim ingested the morning of the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.