This two vehicle crash occurred during early morning daylight hours at an intersection that has the east/west traffic controlled by stop signs. The road surface dry concrete, posted speed limit east/west 64 kmph (40 mph) and north/south 72 kmph (45 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Ford Windstar van, driven by a 47 year-old female with one passenger was traveling west on a 4 lane undivided roadway. V1 failed to stop at the stop sign and was attempting a left turn at impact. The driver of V1 had never driven on this roadway before, and at the time of the crash was reading a map on how to get to a residence where she and the passenger were going. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Chevrolet Silverado pickup truck driven by a 27 year-old male was traveling south in lane 1. As V2 approached the intersection V1 crossed through the intersection in front of V2. The driver of V2 veered slightly to the right but maintained his original lane before the crash. The front of V2 struck the right front of V1. V2 deflected to the right and was struck on the left rear by the right side of V1. V1 came to rest heading south in lane 1 of the southbound traffic. The vehicle stopped about 17 meters (56 feet) south of the intersection. . V 2 came to rest off the roadway, facing southwest approximately 15 meters (49 feet) from the intersection. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: internal distraction, for reading a map while driving. At the time of the crash driver of V1 was reading a hand drawn map to get to her destination. The driver admitted she did not see the stop sign.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into same direction. Critical reason not coded to this vehicle.