This crash occurred at an intersection on a weekday afternoon. There were 4 lanes of travel on the north/south roadway (two each direction), and on the east/west roadway there were 2 lanes eastbound and one lane westbound. V2, a police vehicle, was traveling north in lane two with its lights activated but no siren. V2 entered the intersection at the same time as V1, a passenger vehicle traveling east. The front of V1 impacted the left side of V2. V2 then skidded off onto the northeast curb. V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to final rest in the center of the intersection. The posted speed was 56 kmph (35 mph) on the east/west roadway (V1) and 48 kmph (30 mph) on the north/south roadway (V2). There was a properly working traffic light at the intersection. The roadway was level and dry.

V1, a 1994 Buick Century, was driven by a 19-year old male. He stated that he was traveling east into the intersection on a green light. He also stated that he did not hear or see the lights or siren on the police vehicle. The driver also stated that he was in good health and was not on any medications. He does not wear glasses. This driver reported that he had just picked up the vehicle from a person who said he could have it if he wanted it, and that it would be junked unless he took it out of their yard. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 2004 Chevrolet Impala (police vehicle), was driven by a 53-year old male. The surrogate interviewee stated that the driver of V2 was traveling north on the roadway, traveling to a silent dispatch with lights activated, but no siren. He stated that as the driver approached the intersection he did not see the other vehicle due to a vehicle parked on a lawn at the intersection. He also stated that the driver assumed that all traffic would yield the right of way to him.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling - crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). An associated factor coded to this driver was inattention to the driving task. The driver admitted that he was thinking about the vehicle as he drove it and this was his first time driving it. There was also a sight restriction coded, as there was a non-contact vehicle parked on a lawn at the intersection that partially blocked his view.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded: This vehicle traveling - crossing over (passing through) intersection. No Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. Associated factors included the driver of V2 falsely assuming that traffic would yield to him because he was driving a police vehicle with the lights activated, traveling over the speed limit for the roadway, being in a hurry to get to the police call, and a sight line restriction caused by the parked vehicle parked on a lawn near the intersection.

Two witnesses were interviewed and these witnesses had different views of the crash. One stated that they saw lights on the police vehicle and the other stated that there were no lights.

This researcher noted that the reconstruction officer used a math formula to mark the spot were each vehicle would have been. Using the assumption that V1 was traveling at 64kmph (40mph) and V2 at 56kmph (35mph), they would have had a clear view of each other. However, using the match with V2 traveling at the EDR reading speed, it would not put them in clear view of each other. There was a full-size vehicle sitting on the lawn of a home on the southwest corner (for sale) that may have blocked each driver's view of the other.