The crash occurred on a north/south 3 lane, undivided arterial road. The center lane was a left turn lane for both north and southbound travel. The roadway was straight and level. There was a residential cross street, intersection, controlled by traffic lights. This was an offset intersection with the road intersecting from the left (west) containing three lanes, one westbound, one eastbound and one left turn only, and the part of the road that intersected from the east was two lanes only, one eastbound and one westbound. There were spaces for parallel parking in front of a commercial building on the right (northbound) side of the arterial road. There was also a sidewalk next to the parking slots in front of the building. Conditions were daylight and dry with a posted speed limit 56KPH / 35MPH.

Vehicle 1, a 2001 Chevy Malibu, was traveling northbound on the arterial roadway. The traffic light was red at the intersection for the northbound direction of travel with traffic stopped for the signal. Vehicle 1 swerved right into the parking lanes to avoid stopped vehicles and drove up on to the sidewalk striking a non-fixed sandwich sign and the doorpost to the entry way of a business in the commercial building. It then continued down the sidewalk and impacted a signpost that was anchored in the concrete sidewalk, continued north on the sidewalk, crossed the side street that intersected the arterial road from the east and finally came to rest on the sidewalk to the right of the arterial road just passed the intersection, facing northbound. Vehicle 1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

Vehicle 1 was driven by a 63 year old belted female whose airbags did not deploy. The driver stated that she saw a used furniture store on her right. She stopped and tried to back into a space, and hit a pole and bounced forward. She tried to put her foot on the brake and steer, she did not know why she was on the sidewalk or crossed the side street. She did not recall hitting any buildings. She was uninjured in the crash but wanted to go to the hospital anyway. She was transported to a hospital, which now has no record of her presence. The EDR downloaded from her vehicle indicated no brake activation during the non-deployment event, but did show the throttle at 100% five and four seconds before algorithm enable. She apparently pushed the throttle instead of the brake once avoidance actions became necessary.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was an external distraction (driver did state that she was looking at store signs to her right). Inadequate/Incorrect evasive action was coded as was a performance error: poor directional control. She was also taking 5 prescription medications. Though the driver was concerned about her impending retirement this was not thought to have contributed to the crash.