The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of an undivided two-way roadway, with two lanes of travel in each direction. The roadway was straight and level and had a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). It was dark out but the roadway was lighted and it was dry.

Vehicle #1 was a 2002 Dodge Stratus, which was traveling southbound on the two-way roadway in the right lane. Vehicle #2 was a 1993 Nissan Altima that was traveling southbound on the two-way roadway in the left lane. On this roadway, Vehicle #1 was attempting to make a U-turn to travel northbound when it was contacted on its left plane by Vehicle #2's frontal plane. The crash occurred on a non-junction roadway with no traffic signs or signals. Both vehicles came to final rest on the sidewalk of the northbound lanes. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 27-year old male drove Vehicle #1, with no other occupants present. He sustained minor injuries but was not transported to a medical facility. The Dodge Stratus was towed due to damage.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for Vehicle #1 was coded as: this vehicle traveling over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was coded as an illegal maneuver, a decision error. The illegal maneuver was the attempted U-turn. An associated factor coded to the driver of Vehicle #1 was inadequate surveillance.

Vehicle #2 was driven by a 22-year old male who had two occupants with him, a 15-year old female in the front-right position and a 16-year old female in the back-right seat. All three occupants sustained minor injuries and were transported to a medical facility. The Nissan Altima was also towed due to damage.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for Vehicle #2 was coded as: other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane (same direction)-over right lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to this driver. The driver of Vehicle #2 could not be located for an interview. He was not thought to have contributed to the crash.