This crash occurred just past noon involving two passenger cars at an intersection. The intersection did have illuminated traffic signals with a left turn arrow in both travel directions. The speed limit for the roadway is 56 kmph (40 mph). The road is a 4-lane divided without positive barrier concrete roadway. The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Chevrolet Lumina, was traveling north in the fourth left turn lane and attempted to make a left turn at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Toyota Camry, was traveling south in the first lane of the southbound lanes. In the intersection, the front of V1 impacted the left corner of V2. At impact V1 rotated counter clockwise and came to rest in lane four of the eastbound lanes of the intersection, facing west. V2 rotated clockwise and came to rest within the intersection. The front air bags of neither vehicle deployed during the impact. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. None of the drivers suffered serious injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 72 year old female, stated another vehicle attempted to turn left from the southbound lanes of travel. This vehicle changed its mind and came into the direction of V1. The driver of V1 was not sure, but believed it was V2. The driver takes the following medications: Lipitor, Lisinopril and Tamoxifen.

The driver of V2, a 57 year old female, stated another vehicle was in front of her when she passed through the intersection, blocking the line of sight of V1.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver decision error: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.