This crash occurred early evening involving five passenger cars in the five eastbound travel lanes of a divided freeway. The speed limit is 89 kmph (55 mph). The road is a ten-lane highway with east and westbound lanes divided by a positive cement barrier. The road surface concrete, dry and there were no atmospheric conditions. The highway is illuminated at night.

Vehicle one (V1) a 1997 Pontiac Bonneville was traveling east in the third lane. Vehicle two (V2) a 1997 Honda Accord, Vehicle three (V3) a 1988 Dodge Dakota pick-up truck and Vehicle four (V4) a 2004 Porsche Cayenne were all traveling in the same lane behind V1. Vehicle five (V5) a 1999 Chevrolet Silverado pick-up was traveling east in the fourth lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 applied the brakes and slowed down due to forward congestion. The driver of V2 applied the brakes to slow down as well. The front of V2 impacted the rear of V1. V1 was not seriously damaged after the collision and drove to the right shoulder of the roadway to stop.

The driver of V3 realized V2 slowed down and applied his brakes to slow down. He then realized V2 came to a complete stop and then he applied the brakes harder until they locked up. V3 slid and its front impacted the rear of V2 . V3 was at a complete stop for a few seconds when the front of V4 impacted the back of V3. V3 moved forward and its front impacted the rear of V2 a second time. V2 then rotated clockwise and came to rest partially in lane 4, facing southeast. V3 rotated counter clockwise and came to rest in lane 2, facing northwest. During its rotation V2's rear end impacted with the right side of V5, which was passing through lane 4. V5 kept driving and crossed lanes three, two and one to slow down and stop on the right shoulder of the highway. V4 rotated clockwise and drove off the roadway. It came to rest partially on the shoulder and partially on lane 1, facing southwest. V1 and V5 were driven from the scene. All other vehicles were towed from the scene.

The driver of V1 was a 26-year-old male. The vehicle was briefly seen on the scene by the researcher, but could not be inspected. The driver could not be located afterwards. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. No critical reason was coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V2 was a 29-year old male who claimed to be well rested and in good health. He stated he was following V1 when the driver applied his brakes. The driver of V2 did not remember how close he followed V1 or how fast he was traveling, but could not avoid a collision despite applying his brakes. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V2 as a driver related factor: following to closely to respond to unexpected actions.

The driver of V3 was a 22-year-old male. He estimated his speed to be 104 kmph (65 mph) to 112 kmph (70 mph). He was not sure about the distance to the next vehicle and gave a raw estimate of 5-15 car lengths prior to recognizing V2 slowing down. No critical reason was coded to this vehicle since it was not involved in the first harmful event.