The crash occurred on the southbound side of a 2-way, 2-lane, north/south rural road in the mid morning hours on a weekday. The roadway where the crash occurred has a curve to the left approximately 100meters north of the crash location. There was a Warning Construction 1500feet sign 60 meters north of the crash scene for southbound traffic. There was a railroad underpass with a concrete bridge abutment to the right and a low clearance height of 12 feet 7 inches with the road bordered on either side by steep and tall embankments at the crash scene. The bridge abutment was 45 cm tall x 20 cm wide x 1.5 meters long. There were no shoulders. The road on the southbound side had a -5.2% grade at a location 70 meters precrash and a -2% grade at point of impact. The crash occurred in the daylight with slightly cloudy skies and no adverse weather conditions.

Vehicle #1 was a 2004 Nissan Titan traveling southbound on the 2-lane road when for an unknown reason the vehicle's right front wheel departed the pavement 4meters north of the bridge abutment. The lower portion of the front bumper struck the abutment and then the right front wheel struck another part of the abutment causing the vehicle to roll to it's left ¼ turn onto it's left side coming to final rest under the bridge facing southeast on it's left side approximately 7 meters south of point of impact. The vehicle was towed from the scene with both front airbags deployed. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1.

The Titan(V1) was driven by a belted 43-year old male who suffered minor injuries and had a friend drive him to a local hospital for treatment later in the day. The Critical Precrash Event for this vehicle was This Vehicle Traveling , Off the Edge of the Road on the Right side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was an Unknown Recognition Error. This was coded because the drivers interview was untruthful when it came to describing events. The driver stated to the researcher that a bicyclist crossed in front of him causing him to leave the road. This is not possible given the physical plant of the scene. Based on other evidence it is assumed that the driver just did not realize he was off the road until it was too late. The driver did say that he takes medication for high blood pressure and was wearing sunglasses at the time of the crash. Any other Associated Factors are unknown because during the interview the driver told several known untruths and the researcher had to wake up the interviewee several times in order to get any questions answered.