The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a five lane, North / South divided, heavily traveled arterial US Hwy where it is intersected by a three lane East / West arterial roadway. The highway is divided by a grass median with two through lanes and a left-turn-only lane on the southbound approach to the intersection. The eastbound approach to the intersection on the arterial road contains a straight through lane, a left turn-only-lane and then a lane for oncoming traffic. The arterial road is not physically divided. The intersection is regulated by a control signal (on colors), without a pedestrian signal, in all four directions. The southbound approach to the intersection is straight with a very minor downslope that becomes level on entering the intersection. The eastbound approach to the intersection has a slight upgrade before entering the level intersection. The posted speed limit for both highway and arterial road was 72 kph / 45 mph. Conditions were daylight and dry in the early afternoon on a weekday.

Vehicle 1, a 2001 Chevrolet Astro cargo van, was southbound in the right through lane on the highway. As it passed through the intersection (with a solid red traffic signal), it struck V2, a 1979 Ford F250 on the left side in the front end. The Ford (V2) was in the second lane turning left as it passed through the intersection on a solid green light. Vehicle 1 spun about 20 degrees counter-clockwise. It came to rest facing southeast about 5 meters from POI. Vehicle 2 spun about 70 degrees clockwise and came to rest in the left southbound travel lane on the south side of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle 1 was driven by a 36 year old belted male whose airbags did deploy and who was uninjured in the crash. The driver stated in his interview that he was just eating lunch and had not had any breakfast. He admitted that he was looking at his hot dog and not the intersection the few seconds prior to the crash. At the time of the crash, he had also just been informed that he was to be deployed militarily and was a bit concerned as to who was going to run his business in his absence but also stated that he was not thinking of this at the time of the crash.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was This Vehicle Traveling: Crossing Over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was a Recognition Error: Internal Distraction - Eating and looking down. An associated contributing factor was Inadequate Surveillance, the driver failed to look far enough ahead and note the red stoplight.

Vehicle 2 was driven by a 36 year old belted male who was uninjured in the crash.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was Other Vehicle Encroachment: From crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor that was believed to have contributed to the crash was False Assumption: Assumed the other driver would yield the right - of - way. No other associated factors were coded to this vehicle.