V1, a 1992 Mercury Topaz was traveling westbound on a three-lane, two-way dry asphalt roadway, approaching the intersection in daylight conditions. V2, a 1990 Ford Festiva was traveling northbound on a four-lane, two-way dry asphalt roadway also approaching the intersection with the same conditions. The east/west traffic had a stop sign on either side of the street plus a stop sign in the middle of the street along with 2 red flashing beacons. V1 had stopped at the stop sign for more than 10 seconds. She then attempted to make a left-hand turn and was contacted on her left side by the front of V2 who was intending to go straight through the intersection. Both vehicles side slapped, the left rear of V1 hit the right rear of V2. V1 then came to final rest off the northwest corner of the roadway. V2 came to final rest in the middle of the intersection.

The driver of V1 was a 19-year old female who had reported that she had been stopped for more than 10 seconds at the intersection before proceeding. She thought it was a four-way stop so she stopped and then drove thru the intersection. She did not see V2 coming from her left side. She sustained moderate injuries from the crash and was transported to a local trauma facility. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V1 was: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a recognition error: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see), because she stated that she did not see V2. She was taking a high blood pressure medicine possible side effects are dizziness and tiredness prior to the crash.

The driver of V2 was an 18-year old male who had reported that he had been traveling between 67-80kmph (41-50mph) prior to the crash. He stated that he saw V1 approaching the intersection and thought that she would stop because she had the red light. He hit the brakes and steered left but couldn't avoid hitting V1. He sustained minor injuries from the crash and received on-scene treatment, but refused to be transported to a local trauma facility.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V2 was: Other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded for the driver of V2 and he was not thought to have contributed to the crash.