The crash occurred on a curving portion of a two lane, two-way urban undivided road. The roadway ran east/west and had a posted speed from both directions of 48 kmph (30 mph). The crash took place on a weekday during early rush hour at dawn with overcast skies. There were no shoulders and a field containing thick brush bordered the curb on the north side of the road. The south side of the road at point of impact was bordered by a private parking lot. The roadway was level for the approach of Vehicle #1, and Vehicle #2 had a positive grade of 3 percent.

Vehicle #1 was a 1994 Mazda 626 traveling eastbound on the roadway and headed into a right curve when it drifted into the oncoming lane, crossing the double yellow center line. Vehicle #2, a 2001 Ford Taurus, was westbound negotiating a left curve when the driver noticed the oncoming vehicle in its lane. Vehicle #2 slowed and then started to steer right but was struck in an offset (left side) frontal type crash. Vehicle #1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest facing north with the back of the vehicle in the private lot on the south side of the road and the front of the vehicle in the eastbound lane. Vehicle #2 also rotated counterclockwise, went off the north side of the road, and came to rest facing south in the bushes with the front of the vehicle about 2 meters from the road. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to severe damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Mazda (V1) was driven by an unrestrained, unlicensed, twenty one-year old male who was suspected to be under the influence of alcohol at the time of the crash. The driver of Vehicle #1 was killed in the crash and was pronounced on scene. The frontal airbags in Vehicle #1 deployed.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for Vehicle #1 was when it began traveling over the lane line on the left side of the travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was a performance error: Poor Directional Control (e.g., failing to control the vehicle with skill ordinarily expected). Associated factors included: (1) The driver was upset according to the surrogate interviewee. The surrogate claimed that the driver had had an argument with his brother-in-law concerning his "old lady" and the last anyone had seen of the driver was at 1:00am the night before when he purchased two 12-packs of beer and left in Vehicle #1. (2) The blood alcohol test administered by the Medical Examiner's office revealed a blood alcohol level of 0.30, which is four times the legal limit. (3) The surrogate interviewee indicated that the driver of Vehicle #1 would have been late for work at the time of the crash and the roadway that the crash occurred on was a route normally used by the driver of Vehicle #1 to get there. The driver of Vehicle #1 was likely in a hurry. (4) There was also a possible vehicle-related factor. The right front wheel was a spare donut with a max speed rating of 50 mph/80 kmph. This may have affected the vehicle's handling in the curve depending upon the speed. The surrogate interviewee said that it had been on the vehicle for a while, and since the driver of Vehicle #1 was in the process of buying the vehicle he was going to take care of it.

Vehicle #2 was driven by a restrained, twenty five-year old female who was transported to a local hospital with minor injuries. A two-year old female was properly restrained in a child seat in the right rear seating position and suffered only minor bruising. The frontal airbags in Vehicle #2 did deploy. After a lengthy extrication process (4 hours) NMVCCS personnel were able to download the EDR data from the module, which proved to be useless (was called a non-deployment event by the software). After discussions with SCI personnel, we were informed that this is a common problem in that year, make and model of Taurus in severe offset left frontal crashes.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for Vehicle #2 was when another vehicle encroached into its lane from the opposite direction-over left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. No contributing associated factors were coded to this vehicle. The driver of Vehicle #2 saw the other vehicle approaching and attempted to avoid the event but was unsuccessful.