The crash occurred on a rural two-way, two lane secondary arterial road that ran north/south and had a posted speed limit of 56kmph (35mph). When traveling southbound the road had a curve to the left (where the crash occurred) that had a radius of 304m. The road was bordered on either side by thick brush and trees. The side slope at the run off road point was -25%. Side slope at rollover initiation was -56%, and the grade between impact and final rest was -87.5%. Final Rest for V1 was approximately 5 meters below the level of the road.

V1, a 1999 Ford Contour, was southbound on the road. It departed the right side of the road and began a yaw left that gradually increased until V1's right wheels came into contact with a concrete abutment for a drainage ditch that ran under the road. V1 then rolled right two quarter turns striking some trees before coming to rest upside down in the drainage ditch facing northeast with both sides of V1 wedged between the walls of the ditch. This accounts for so little actual damage to the top of the vehicle. V1 traveled approximately 70+ meters after it ran off the road. V1 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

Vehicle 1 was driven by a belted 18-year old male whose airbags deployed. He was transported from the scene via ambulance to a local hospital for treatment. He stated he was in good health, but did suffer from allergies for which he took medications. Possible side effects of these medications do include drowsiness and fatigue. He was wearing his prescription lenses that corrected a myopic (near-sighted) condition.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as an internal distraction as the driver admitted to adjusting the radio controls just before his vehicle left the roadway. Fatigue was coded as an associated factor as the driver is a full time student and admittedly works 50 hours per week at a physical job. Also the driver was taking two medications, which could have intensified the fatigue. Driving too fast for conditions (reason unknown) was coded because the driver stated his speed was nearly miles per hour over the speed limit. Inexperience was also coded to this diver based on his age.