This three-vehicle collision occurred at an intersection comprised of two roadways and a highway off-ramp/on-ramp shortly after noon during daylight. The west section of the east/west roadway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of six-lanes. This section of the roadway has a bike lane on both its north and south edges. The east section of the east/west roadway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of seven-lanes. A bike lane borders the south edge of this roadway. The north/south roadway located on the north is undivided, dry, has a northbound 3.2% upward slope, curves right, and consists of two lanes. The highway on-ramp/off-ramp located on the south consists of two exit lanes and two entrance lanes. The entrance lanes are located on the west side and the exit lanes are located on the east side. The entrance and exit ramps are separated by a raised concrete median. The exit ramp is divided, has an upgrade north slope, concrete, curves right, and consists of three lanes. The number one lane is a right-turn only lane. The second lane is a straight or right-turn lane. The number three lane is a left-turn only lane. The on-ramp is dry, slopes down as you travel south, divided, concrete, curves right, and consists of two lanes. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light signal that was working properly at the time of the collision. The speed limit on the east/west roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). The speed limit on the north/south roadway is 40 kmph (25 mph). The speed limit on the highway ramps is 104 kmph (65 mph).

Vehicle one, a 2005 Honda Civic was westbound in the fourth lane. Vehicle two, a 2005 Toyota Tacoma was eastbound in the first lane. Vehicle three, a 2003 Ford Ranger was northbound in the third lane. As vehicle one entered the intersection, it attempted a left turn. The front plane of vehicle two contacted the right plane of vehicle one. The impact caused vehicle one to rotate counter-clockwise and travel towards vehicle three. The front plane of vehicle one contacted the front plane of vehicle three. Vehicle one came to rest facing southeast in the off-ramp's number three lane. Vehicle two came to rest facing southwest blocking the on-ramp number one lane. Vehicle three came to rest facing northbound in the off-ramp's number three lane. Vehicle one suffered moderate damage and was towed. Vehicle two suffered moderate damage and was towed. Vehicle three was suffered moderate damage and was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a nineteen-year-old female was commuting to work. This driver had been driving for about fifteen minutes at the time of the crash. The driver recently started a new job. She is currently undergoing on-the-job training for her new job. Her new job is at a retail-clothing store. The driver needed to be at work one half hour after the crash occured. The driver was not running late given the job's close proximity. The driver's work hours vary because of her on-going training. This driver stated that two cars ahead of her made the turn successfully and the red truck looked far enough away to make the turn. The driver only has three years of driving experience. She has owned the vehicle since May. This driver drives over this road on a weekly basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a thirty-six year old male was traveling from a pond-cleaning job to a second pond-cleaning job. This driver had been driving for about ten minutes at the time of the crash. The driver was wearing prescription glasses for myopia. His driver's license has a restriction that requires him to wear his glasses. The driver bought his vehicle in March. It is his first vehicle with anti-lock brakes (ABS). The driver rarely travels through the collision's intersection. As he was traveling, he was thinking about the need to change lanes to the right after the intersection so as to make his next turn. This driver does drive this vehicle daily but only rarely over this roadway.

The driver of vehicle three, a fifty-three year old male was commuting home from work. The driver was traveling to a nearby store while he headed home. This driver had been driving for about thirty-five minutes at the time of the crash. The driver had traveled approximately 64 kilometers (40 miles) prior to the collision. The driver was wearing glasses for a myopic condition. The driver walked one mile on Tuesday and Wednesday as part of his exercise routine. The driver also rides a staionary bicycle for four to five minutes at least three to four days a week. The driver was commuting in a company vehicle. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to vehicle one and was coded as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

Vehicle three was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.