The crash occurred on a north/south six-lane urban roadway that was intersected on the east by a two-lane road and on the west by a private drive. Southbound the arterial road had two through lanes and right and left turn lanes. The two-lane side street that intersected from the east was controlled by a stop sign. On the west side of the intersection was a three lane private drive. The posted speed limit was 64 kmph (40 mph). Conditions were daylight, raining, and wet on a weekday afternoon. The southbound roadway had a grade of +3 percent; the westbound roadway had a grade of +2 percent.

Vehicle #1 was 2002 Chevrolet Cavalier traveling west on the two-lane side street. Vehicle #2, a 1993 Saturn SL2, was traveling south in the third lane. The Cavalier (V1) attempted to go straight across the intersection into the private drive when its right side was struck by the Saturn's (V2) front. After impact both vehicles rotated clockwise. Vehicle #1 came to rest facing east in the southwest corner of the intersection. Vehicle #2 stopped facing northwest in the northwest corner of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle #1 was driven by a 77-year-old male that lived nearby. Fortunately he was belted in the crash and transported and released from an area hospital with only minor injuries. In his interview he stated that he stopped at the stop sign just long enough to see that no other vehicles were approaching and proceeded to attempt to cross the intersection. The EDR data from the non-deployment event was extracted from the vehicle. The pre-crash graph indicated 5 seconds prior to algorithm enable the vehicle was traveling 2mph (3.6kph) and gradually increases to 14mph (22.5kph) at 1 second prior to AE. The brake was off during the entire sequence and maximum longitudinal speed change was a modest 3.06mph (4.9kph) for the side impact. Based on the EDR data it appears that Vehicle #1's driver slowed at the stop sign but didn't come to a complete stop prior to attempting to cross the busy intersection. It may have been a factor in his not seeing the other vehicle approaching from his right.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for Vehicle #1 was this vehicle passing through intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a recognition error, inadequate surveillance (looked but did not see). Associated factors that may have contributed to the crash include rain and vision that is corrected by glasses (unknown condition). The driver suffers from four medical conditions - allergies, acid reflux disease, high blood pressure, and depression. He takes prescription medications for these conditions.

Vehicle #2 was operated by a 25-year-old male that was belted and not injured. He stated he was on his way back to work from lunch traveling about 76 kmph (47 mph). He said he looked down at his cell phone momentarily and when he looked back up the Cavalier (V1) was approaching from his front left. He also admitted that he could have applied his brakes sooner, but assumed Vehicle #1 was going to stop.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for Vehicle #2 was other vehicle encroaching from crossing street across path. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. However, the Saturn (V2) had associated factors that contributed to the crash, including: other non-driving activities - dialing or hanging up phone, a false assumption of other road user's actions - assumed other vehicle would yield right of way, and traveling too fast for conditions. By his own admission, the driver of V2 reported that prior to taking any avoidance action, he had been traveling about 47 mph, and the posted speed limit was 40 mph. The driver takes a prescription medication for attention deficit disorder. The weather (rain) was also coded as an associated factor.