This two-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours on a weekday. The crash occurred at the four-leg intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light traffic signal without a protected left phase. Both roadways are designated as 56 kmph (35 mph) zones. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse atmospheric conditions and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Cadillac SRX four-door SUV, was traveling northbound in the third lane of a five-lane, two-way, undivided, dry, level, bituminous roadway. V1 was stopped in the middle of the intersection and awaiting an opportunity to turn left. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Dodge Magnum four-door station wagon, was traveling southbound in the first lane of opposing traffic, with the intention of passing straight through. As both vehicles entered the intersection, the front of V2 impacted the right side of V1. Both vehicles deflected southwest and came to rest in the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

Both drivers reported a clear sightline to the other vehicle, and each was aware of the other's approach. The 73-year-old-male driver of V1 was in fair health, and was rested and alert at the time of the crash. He reported that the tri-light entered the red phase and other southbound traffic came to a stop. He believed that V2 would also stop and allow him to clear the intersection. Local regulation gives the right-of-way to V1 in this circumstance. As he began to execute his turn, he realized that V2 was not stopping, and he applied his brakes. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V1.

The 21-year-old male driver of V2 was from out-of-state, but was familiar with the area. He reported that the tri-light had changed to the red phase before he entered the intersection. When he saw V1 begin his turn, he applied his brakes, but was unable to sufficiently slow the vehicle. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was attributed to V2, and is coded as a driver related factor: illegal maneuver. An associative factor - false assumption - was attributed to both drivers.