The crash occurred in eastbound lanes of a seven-lane urban roadway at a four-legged intersection. There were two westbound lanes and five eastbound lanes that included two left turn lanes, two straight-through lanes, and one right turn lane. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph) with a 2 percent downhill grade in the eastbound direction. Also, the eastbound approach to the intersection was a slight left curve. Conditions were daylight and dry with clear skies. The crash occurred in the mid-morning hours of a weekday.

Vehicle one was a 2003 Mitsubishi Galant sedan. Vehicle two was a 2004 Ford F150 pickup. V1 was traveling east in the second lane. V2 was stopped at the light in lane four facing west, waiting to turn left. V2 waited through half a light cycle, and then proceeded to turn left across the intersection. The front of V2 struck the left side of V1. Both vehicles came to rest in the northbound lanes off the south leg of the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 26-year old female who was transported to a local trauma center with non-incapacitating injuries. She was unable to be located for an interview. The police listed phone number was incorrect, and she was not listed in local directories. In-person attempts to her residence were unsuccessful. The investigating officer estimated her travel and impact speeds to be 45 mph. V1 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V1 was the other vehicle encroaching into her lane from the opposite direction over the left lane line. No Critical Reason was coded to this driver. No associated factors could be coded without an interview.

V2 was driven by a 26-year old male who was uninjured. He stated that he was just finishing a week off from work and was driving to the office to check some messages. He did not see the other vehicle coming. He estimated his travel and impact speeds to be 35 mph. V2 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V2 was this vehicle turning left at the intersection. The Critical Reason was inadequate surveillance.