The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a four-lane high-speed/high-volume interstate highway separated by a concrete wall. There were four lanes and two emergency paved shoulders with an on ramp on the right. Conditions were clear in the late afternoon on a weekday. The posted speed limit was 105 kmph (65 MPH) and traffic was heavy during rush hour.

Vehicle #1 was a 2005 Toyota Corolla that was traveling southbound in lane 1 going approximately 72 KPH (45 MPH) keeping up with the traffic. Vehicle #2 was a 2000 Honda Accord traveling in lane 1 going approximately 48 KPH (30MPH). It was rush hour traffic and traffic was close together with a lot of stop and go. Vehicle 1 was driven by a 20-year old male who was conversing on his cell phone to his friend who was a few cars ahead of him. He was trying to find out what was causing the slow traffic. As he was conversing, the vehicle in front of him came to an abrupt stop. He hit his brakes and swerved right off the roadway onto the painted gore that separated the roadway from the on ramp. He was successful at avoiding that impact; however, the driver of Vehicle #2 followed his lead and slammed on his brakes and steered right, impacting V#1's back right bumper. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for Vehicle #1 was other motor vehicle in lane traveling at higher speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to this driver include following too closely, talking on his cell phone, and rush hour traffic. The driver of Vehicle #1 was not injured and his car was not towed due to damages. He was issued a ticket for traveling off the roadway onto the gore.

Vehicle #2 was driven by a 25-year old male who was keeping up with traffic. His car was towed due to damages and he was not injured. He stated that he was keeping up with traffic when the driver in front of him, V#1, all of a sudden hit his brakes and steered right into the shoulder. He followed V#1's motions and slammed on his brakes and steered to the right onto the gore but could not avoid the impact.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for Vehicle #2 was other vehicle stopped in lane. The Critical Reason was incorrect evasive action. Had the driver of Vehicle #2 braked and stayed in his original lane rather than following Vehicle #1 into the gore, the crash would not have occurred. Associated factors coded to this driver include insomnia, following too closely, and rush hour traffic.