A two vehicle rear-end collision occurred in the eastbound travel lanes of a 4-lane divided, bituminous roadway on a clear day just before noon. The speed limit was 64 kmph (40 mph) where the crash occurred and traffic was stop & go.

Vehicle one (V1) was a 1992 grey Honda Accord 4-door sedan with one restrained occupant. Vehicle two (2) was a 2005 tan Jeep Grand Cherokee 4-door 4x4 with three occupants inside; one of those was in a child restraint, the other two were unrestrained. Both vehicles were heading east in the second lane. V2 stopped because forward traffic was backed up behind the stoplight. V1 was behind V2 traveling east in the second lane at a slow steady pace when it impacted the rear of V2. V1 was towed from the scene, and V2 was left at scene. The driver of V2 was in her third trimester of pregnancy, and the driver along with the passengers was transported to the hospital. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 53-year-old male traveling home for lunch from work. Due to heavy traffic the driver had gotten into the second lane, and could not get into the right lane. Traffic had stopped up ahead for the second lane, which made the driver of V1 slow down. When the driver of V1 saw the traffic in the right lane start to move and he thought all lanes were starting to speed up. The driver was looking right, then accelerated and impacted the rear of V2, which had been stopped. The cause of this crash was the external distraction to the driver of V1 of the adjacent traffic moving forward. He made a false assumption that vehicles in his lane were also moving forward. The critical precrash event for V1 was: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event was attributed to the driver of V1 as a driver recognition factor: external distraction.

The driver of V2 was a 27-year-old female who was 8 months pregnant and on her way home from the hospital. She takes the following medications: insulin (not specific), Synthroid, vitamins, and an unspecified high blood pressure medication. She was stopped in traffic having a social conversation with the passenger when her vehicle was impacted from behind by V1. The critical precrash event for V2 was: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.