This crash occurred on a two-lane, straight, level, dry roadway, with a posted speed limit of 72 kph (45 mph). The conditions at the time of the crash were clear, partly cloudy, with no adverse conditions playing a cause in the crash.

On scene two vehicles were observed, separated by approximately 75m, one vehicle, a white mini van, was on the right side of the northbound lanes, and the other, a white pick-up, was off the right shoulder of the southbound lanes pointed in an easterly direction. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A witness of the crash stated that the white van had been approaching from the south, headed north, and the pick-up was headed southbound. The witness stated that the white van was moving over the center lane, and encroaching on the travel lane occupied by the white pick-up. The witness stated that the driver of the pick-up must have seen the van moving in his direction, because the witness stated that the pick-up was slowing and had moved on to the shoulder of the roadway, trying to avoid the crash. The van then crossed the lane line on the left side and contacted the pick-up.

V1 a White 2000 Dodge Caravan was headed northbound in the left lane, when it deviated from its original travel lane, crossed the center lane, traveled across the adjacent lane, and made contact with V2. V2 a 2005 Ford F-350 was headed southbound in the left lane when V1 encroached into that lane and contacted the left side of the vehicle with the left of its front.

The pre-crash movement for V1 is coded as going straight, the Critical Pre-crash Event is coded, this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the left side of the travel lane, with the Critical Reason for this event being an unknown drivers recognition error

V2 was going straight also, and the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded other vehicle encroached from opposite direction over left lane line. A Critical Reason for this event is not applicable to this vehicle.