This crash occurred on a four lane physically divided roadway curving to the right with a posted speed limit of 105KPH (65MPH) and a negative 2% grade. The roadway is divided by a grass median and a box shaped guardrail. This is a fully controlled roadway interstate highway. The weather was clear and the roadway was dry. This crash occurred on a weekend day in the late afternoon. The driver left the scene of the crash, with his two children in an ambulance.

Vehicle #1, a 4 door sedan 2005 Chevrolet Malibou, was traveling south on the roadway when it lost control and departed the roadway on the left side striking the center guardrail with its front, spinning counter-clockwise and striking the same guardrail with its right rear side encompassing part of the passenger compartment and the rear. It should be noted here that the driver stated, to police, that an uninvolved vehicle moved from the driving lane to the passing lane causing him to take evasive action and then losing control of this vehicle. The vehicle came to rest, off roadway, facing in a northerly direction, with the guardrail resting on a right rear section of the vehicle. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The Chevrolet Malibou was driven by a 28 year old belted male and there were two young children as passengers. A belted 8 year old child was seated in the front right and an unbelted 9 year old child was seated in the rear left seat. The nine year old sustained injuries according to the police report. The driver and the other passenger were not injured. It should be noted here that this was a rented vehicle and the driver stated he had rented it in a city 50 miles north of the crash site.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was coded as this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side. The Critical Reason the for the Critical Precrash Event was coded as unknown reason for critical event. This was chosen due to information on the police report as no interview could be obtained. The police did not consider either alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no tests for this driver.