V1 was a 1991 Nissan 240SX driven by a 29-year old male. V1 was traveling northwest on a 2-lane undivided roadway (one lane each direction). It was the early hours of the morning, on a clear night not long after midnight. The posted speed limit was 72 kmph (45 mph). The driver began to negotiate a left curve on a 4% downhill grade with a 6% negative superelevation. The car entered a counterclockwise skid. The driver applied the brakes and counter-steered to the right. The vehicle traveled off the left side of the roadway and rolled to the right approximately two and one-half complete turns, coming to rest on its roof on the left roadside. During the rollover a street sign was impacted with an unknown plane of the vehicle, and a large boulder was impacted with the right plane. The driver was uninjured, and EMS response was canceled by volunteer firemen before arriving on scene. The driver was able to exit the vehicle under his own power by kicking out a passenger window.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V1 was when he lost control of his vehicle due to his traveling too fast for conditions. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as "too fast for curve/turn," a decision error. The driver admitted to the researcher that he had been traveling at approximately 121 kmph (75 mph) prior to the crash. The driver revealed that he had purchased the vehicle a few months prior to the crash and was joyriding after work. He had selected this particular roadway for its rural and curvy nature, and stated that he came here regularly to practice high speed driving. He also stated that he was a mechanic and kept the vehicle in very good condition. Measurements taken at the crash scene revealed that the radius of curvature for the curve in the roadway did not meet the AASHTO standards. As measured at the apex of the curve, the calculated radius of curvature was 157.3 meters. The AASHTO standard for a curve with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph) and a superelevelation of 6 percent was 201.2. Therefore, there was a roadway design deficiency on this roadway and this was coded as an associated factor. However, it is important to keep in mind that the driver of V1 intentionally took the curve at an excessive rate of speed well above the posted speed limit. Had the correct speed been posted (the posted speed should have been no more than 56 kmph, or 35 mph), it is likely that this driver would still have rolled his vehicle. It was his intention to take the curve as fast as he could. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1.
