This two-vehicle crash occurred on a late Friday afternoon on a main thoroughfare at a 4-way intersection. The roadway runs north (4-lanes) and south (3-lanes) at the location of the crash and the intersection is controlled by a pretimed traffic signal. The traffic was moderate and conditions were daylight, clear and dry.

V1, a 2005 Ford Escape with one occupant, was traveling north in the left turn-lane approaching the intersection. V2, a 1996 Acura Integra with one occupant, was traveling south in lane one approaching the same intersection. V1 entered the intersection and made a left turn in front of V2. The front of V2 struck the right side of V1 causing the Ford to roll onto its roof. V2 left 7 meters of precrash skid marks. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 46-year-old female that was unable to be reached for an interview. She was transported from the scene due to some minor injuries she suffered in the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded: this vehicle turning left at the intersection and the Critical Reason for Critical Precrash event was coded as: inadequate surveillance.

V2 was driven by a 21-year-old male. This crash happened this afternoon after he left work and was headed to the bank to cash his check. He was driving south in the right lane (lane 1) through the intersection with a green light when V1 turned in front of him. He locked his brakes but could not avoid striking V1 on the right side. He reported that there was traffic to his left that blocked his sightline of V1 before he entered the intersection. This driver was wearing a lap & shoulder belt, and the driver and passenger side airbags deployed in the crash. He reported that he does not have adversarial relationship with his employer but he did have a bad day today at work (no specific details other than 'it was really hot') but he was not thinking about it at the time of the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroaching from opposite direction-over left lane line and the Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle.