This crash occurred in an intersection, of two similar roads. Both roads are two-way, two-lane, asphalt roadways, with posted 45mph (72 kmph) speed limits. The north-south roadway is controlled by a stop sign, but the east-west roadway the traffic flow is not impeded. Conditions at the time were sunny and dry.

V1 a 1989 Chevrolet S10 Blazer was traveling southbound approaching the stop sign that controlled the intersection, but was unable to stop due to an internal vehicle malfunction. A fuse relay fell from under the instrument panel and was logged in front of the brake petal. The vehicle rolled into the intersection where its left side was contacted by the front of V2. The vehicle was towed due to damage, the driver was transported to a local medical facility, but the occupant was uninjured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 17 year-old driver of V1 stated that he and the occupant were discussing which direction they would travel and, because of the fallen relay box he was unable to push on the brake petal. Upon talking to the driver it was established that he had only been driver for three month, and that in the morning of the crash he had been mowing lawn.

V2 a 1993 Jeep Cherokee was traveling eastbound approaching the intersection where it was intending to continue traveling straight. Upon approach to the intersection the driver stated that he saw V1 not stopping so he applied his brakes locking them, but was unable to stop and collided with V1. The driver was uninjured, and the vehicle was not towed.

The critical pre crash event for V1 is coded this vehicle traveling crossing over (passing through) intersection, and the critical reason for this event is other vehicle failure. The fuse relay had fallen making it difficult to apply adequate braking pressure. Associated factors for this driver are inexperience, and conversing with passenger.

The critical pre crash event for V2 is coded other vehicle encroachment from crossing street traveling across path. A critical reason was not coded for this vehicle, and no associated factors could be found.