A single vehicle crash occurred in the evening hours on an interchange exit ramp. This section of the roadway runs north and south with the exit ramp heading eastbound. The north side of the interstate consists of two through lanes, a left side berm measuring 1.5 meters wide (4.9 feet) and a center cement dividing barrier. On the east side of the through lanes there is a concrete exit lane that is bordered to it's right by a 3.3 meter wide (10.8 feet) asphalt berm and a cement dividing wall. The exit lane curves right. The left side of the exit lane is an asphalt berm measuring .9 meters wide (3 feet). To the north of the berm is a loose gravel area with a negative 20 % grade. The exit ramp has a negative 2% grade with an 8% super elevation. The speed limit for the northbound traffic is 89 kmph (55 mph). The suggested exit ramp speed is posted as 40 kmph (25 mph). This roadway was free of congestion, roadway deficiencies, adverse weather conditions and/or sight restrictions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1) was a 2002 Oldsmobile Alero four door sedan driven by a 17 year-old male with two passengers, V1 was traveling northbound on the interstate and the driver was trying to decide which exit to take to get to his destination. As a last minute decision the driver of V1 attempted to take the exit involved in this crash. As V1 merged onto the exit ramp the driver couldn't make the curve at the speed he was traveling. The driver attempted to brake and steer left. This caused V1 to exit the exit ramp on the right and the the driver steered left. V1 re-entered the right side of the ramp , crossed it, and then departed the left side of the exit ramp. V1 traveled onto the gravel area, down the 20% grade and impacted a guardrail. V1 came to final rest facing north/west against the guardrail. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling ooff the edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: too fast for curve/turn. This was coded because of the driver's decision to try to exit at the last minute at a rate of speed much higher than the recommended exit ramp speed.

Additional factors: This driver is a fairly inexperienced driver that has only been licensed for two years. It was discovered during the interview that this driver had been involved in another crash just three weeks prior to this one. This driver was internally distracted by conversation with two passengers. He was also in a hurry prior to the crash as they were trying to catch a train. This driver was unfamiliar with the roadway and didn't know exactly where he was going. The exit ramp he attempted to take was the wrong ramp for his destination.