V1, a 1996 Pontiac Sunfire, was traveling southbound on a four-lane, undivided wet asphalt roadway in daylight conditions. The posted speed limit was 89 kmph (55 mph). The driver of V1, an 18-year old male, intended to go straight through a 4-way intersection with another 4-lane roadway. V2, a 2004 Chevrolet Silverado with a snow blade and pulling a trailer, was traveling westbound on an undivided four-lane wet asphalt roadway approaching the same intersection. The driver of V2, a 43-year old male, also intended to go straight through the intersection. V3, a 1995 Chevrolet Corsica, was stopped at the intersection facing east waiting to turn left onto the north/south roadway. V3 was driven by a 55-year old male. V4, a 2005 Chevrolet Silverado, was traveling eastbound approaching the same intersection, intending to turn right. The intersection was controlled by a flashing beacon. North and southbound traffic had a flashing red light; east and westbound traffic had a flashing yellow light. North and southbound traffic was also controlled by stop signs.

The driver of V1 reported seeing the red light at the last minute and stated that he was traveling too fast to stop in time. The driver of V1 swerved right to tried to avoid V2 but was unsuccessful. The front of V2 struck the left side of V1. V1 spun counterclockwise 360 degrees before coming to final rest of the north road edge. While rotating, the rear of V1 struck the right side of V2. Following its impacts with V1, V2's left front contacted the left front of V3. The front left of V4 then scraped up the right side of V3. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V1 was when he began to cross over (pass through) the intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as an illegal maneuver, a decision error. This was chosen because the driver of V1 admitted that he saw the red light in advance but thought he was going too fast to stop in time. His speed was coded as an associated factor, as was conversation with his passenger. He was also coded as being inattentive to the driving task. The driver of V1 reported that while he was familiar with his vehicle, this was the first time he had driven on this particular roadway. He was wearing his prescription lenses that corrected a myopic (nearsighted) condition at the time of the crash. He was taking no medications, and police did not consider either alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no tests. The police did issue a citation to the driver of V1 for failing to stop at a red light. Because it was believed that the driver of V1 intended to go through a traffic control device, he was also coded as driving aggressively.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V2 was when another vehicle encroached into his lane from a crossing street, across his path. The Critical Reason was not coded to the driver of V2. An associated factor that was coded to the driver of V2 was a false assumption of another road user's actions, because the driver of V2 expected that north and southbound traffic would yield the right-of-way to him as he proceeded through the intersection. The driver of V2 reported that he was familiar with his vehicle and that he drove on the roadway approximately once a month. He reported that he was taking a cholesterol-lowering medication that had no known performance-impairing side effects. Police did not consider either alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no tests.

No Critical Precrash Event and no Critical Reason were coded to the driver of V3 because he was not involved in the first harmful event (the initial impact between V1 and V2). The driver of V3 was not thought to have contributed to the crash. He was stopped at the intersection waiting for traffic to clear so that he could initiate a left turn. The driver of V3 reported that he took a prescribed medication that had the possible side effect of dizziness and weakness. He also reported that he suffered from sleep apnea but that he was not fatigued at the time of the crash. He was wearing his prescription lenses that corrected a myopic (nearsighted) condition and was familiar with both his vehicle and the roadway. Police did not consider either alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no tests.

In summary, the crash occurred when the driver of V1, who was somewhat inattentive to the driving task, failed to stop for a traffic control device and entered an intersection where V2 had the right-of-way. Associated factors included excess speed, conversation with a passenger, and aggressive driving.