The crash took place on a five-lane, bituminous, straight, level, dry, urban roadway. There were two eastbound lanes with the third lane a left turn lane, and two westbound lanes. At the time of the daylight crash there were no adverse weather conditions.

V1, a 1999 Chrysler Concorde, was proceeding south out of a commercial (gas station) driveway turning left (east) onto a 5 lane roadway. This driveway was approximately 60 meters west of a fully controlled intersection. In order to travel east on this roadway, V1 needed to cross 2 westbound lanes and 1 center turn lane used by the eastbound traffic at the aforementioned intersection. V2, a 1989 Dodge Caravan, was westbound in lane 2 of the 5-lane east/west roadway. V2 had just proceeded through the intersection west of the driveway and V2 was traveling at a constant speed. Traffic was backed up in lane 1 of the westbound lanes so V1 was going between stopped cars in lane 1 to turn left. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Chrysler Concorde (Vehicle 1) was driven by a 24-year old female that was uninjured in the crash. She stated that she was in the gas station driveway waiting to turn left onto the roadway. She looked left and thought she had enough time to turn left onto the eastbound lane. As she pulled out she got struck in the left side by the other vehicle. This vehicle was towed due to damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was turning left at the intersection and the Critical Reason for the Pre-crash Event was turned with obstructed view, an "other" decision error. The stopped traffic in lane 1 had motioned her into the roadway and blocked her view of V2. The driver was found to be familiar with both the vehicle and the roadway as well as properly licensed for the vehicle. She was not late or in a hurry. The driver reported that her health was good, was wearing prescribed contacts and had had her normal amount (6.5) hours of sleep the night before the crash. She had worked 5 days (30hours) since her last day off. The driver did say she was constantly fatigued, before this short trip (she had been driving <30 minutes) and usually when she awoke. She also suffers from depression and takes two medications for it, the possible side effects are dizziness, blurred vision, tiredness and sleeplessness. The vehicle inspection yielded no indications that mechanical defects contributed to the cause of the crash. The driver was cited for failure to yield to oncoming traffic.

The Dodge Caravan (Vehicle 2) was driven by a 34-year old male that was uninjured in the crash. There were two passengers in the vehicle one was his wife and the other was his child they were both uninjured. He stated that he was traveling west on the road to take his child to the hospital for her vaccination. He was driving in the center lane, lane two. The driver said that it looked like the other driver was a student and she didn't have good judgment when she pulled out in front of him. He applied his brakes but was unable to stop before he hit V1. This vehicle was towed due to damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was other vehicle encroachment, from driveway, turning in opposite direction and the Critical Reason is not coded to this vehicle. The driver was found to be familiar with both the roadway and the vehicle. He was also properly licensed for the vehicle and had only driven less than 30minutes on scheduled local trip. He was not in a hurry and excess speed was not a factor in the crash. There were no indications of fatigue, medical complications (including vision or hearing) or aggressive driving on the part of the driver. The only mechanical factor associated with V2 discovered during the inspection was excessive tread wear on all 4 tires but this may not have mattered since the road was dry and the driver had no time to brake substantially before the impact.