This is a two-vehicle crash that occurred in the 2-way turn lane of a two-way, five lane, dry asphalt roadway. The roadway consists of two westbound and two eastbound lanes that are separated by a continuous left turn lane. The crash occurred adjacent to the entrance to a private drive for an office supply store. The speed limit on the roadway where the crash occurred is posted 56 kmph (35 mph). There was a sight line restriction at the time of the crash consisting of vehicles stopped in the eastbound lanes. There were no environmental factors or obstructions that contributed to this crash. The crash occurred during mid-afternoon hours; traffic at the time of the crash was highly congested. The crash occurred approximately 87 meters (285 feet) west of a four-way traffic signal controlled intersection.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1989 Toyota Corolla, was stopped at the exit of the office supply store waiting to turn left into the westbound lanes. The driver, a 16-year old female, stated that she was stopped for about 5-10 minutes waiting to turn left when vehicles stopped for the traffic light ahead. She stated that two vehicles stopped in the eastbound lanes and left a space for her vehicle to cross over those lanes. The V1 driver then accelerated, crossed the eastbound lanes, and began to turn left and the front of her vehicle collided with the front of vehicle two (V2) in the continuous left turn lane. She stated that she did not see V2 approaching in the left turn lane. The impact caused V1 to enter a clockwise rotation and V1 came to final rest with the front of the vehicle in the #2 eastbound lane facing in a northeasterly direction. The V1 driver complained of pain to her right knee. The restrained right front passenger, a 16-year old female, also complained of pain to her right knee. The non-restrained second row left passenger, a 15-year old male, non-restrained second row middle passenger, a 17-year old male and restrained 15-year old female, also in the middle of the second row, were not injured. The non-restrained second row right passenger, a 15-year old male, sustained a bloody nose and was transported from the scene by EMS personnel. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.

V2, a 2003 Mitsubishi Eclipse GS, was traveling eastbound in the continuous left turn lane intending to make a left turn at the intersection ahead. The restrained driver, a 30-year old female, stated that she was looking straight ahead when she was traveling in the continuous left turn because there was a line of cars stopped in the eastbound lanes. The driver did not see V1 enter the roadway. The front of V2 and left side of V1 collided in the continuous left turn lane. The impact redirected V2 to the left and it came to rest with the front of the vehicle in the #2 westbound lane facing generally northeast. There was no evidence to indicate any avoidance maneuvers by the V2 driver, who was not injured. The restrained right front passenger, a 47-year old female, was transported by EMS from the scene. The second row left passenger, a 3-year old female, was restrained in a child safety seat. V1 was towed due to damage.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related decision factor: turned with obstructed view. The driver did look to her left and right but did not see V2 traveling in the left turn lane. The driver's line of sight was restricted due to vehicles stopped in the eastbound lanes.

The critical pre crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from driveway, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.