This three vehicle daytime collision occurred during early morning daylight hours during rush hour traffic. The collision occurred at a four-leg intersection comprised by a west/east roadway and a north/south roadway. The undivided west/east and north/south roadways consist of five lanes, including a left-turn pocket. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light signal that was functioning properly at the time of the collision. Both roadways posted speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1988 Nissan Sentra 5 door hatchback, was traveling eastbound in the number one lane going straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 BMW 325si, sedan driven by a 19 year-old male with one passenger, was westbound in the number three lane (left-turn pocket). Vehicle three (V3), a 2000 Toyota Camry sedan driven by a 53 year-old female with two passengers, was stopped in the northbound number three lane (left-turn pocket). There were no indications of mechanical problems with any of the vehicles prior to the crash. As V2 attempted a left-turn to head south, the front plane of V1 contacted the right plane of V2. V2 then rotated counter-clockwise as V1 rotated clockwise. The left plane of V1 contacted the right plane of V2 in a side slap motion. The collision sent V1 towards a stopped V3. The front plane of V1 then contacted the front plane of V3. V1 came to rest facing southbound in the northbound number three lane. V2 came to rest facing the southeast corner blocking the northbound number one lane. V3 came to rest facing northbound in the number three lane. V1 was towed due to major damage. V2 suffered major damage, but was driven from the scene. V3 suffered major damage, but was also driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 fled from the scene after the collision. No interview was obtained with this driver. Both driver's of V2 and V3 stated that V1 ran a red light and ran into V2 as V2 was trying to clear the intersection about 2 seconds after the light had turned red.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: illegal maneuver, for disregard of traffic signal. Aggressive driving was an associative factor for this driver.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.