This crash occurred on a parking lot drive-through roadway. The roadway was an unmarked undivided 2-lane roadway with designated parking spaces on either side of the roadway. At the time of the crash, it was early afternoon and the roadway was dry. At the point of the first impact, the roadway was level. There was no posted speed limit sign.

V1 was a 2005 Chevrolet Malibu that was traveling westbound on the roadway. V2, a 2002 Nissan Pathfinder, pulled out of a parking space to the left of V1, attempting to turn left to travel in the same direction as V1. The front left of V1 struck the right side front of V2. This impact rotated V2 in a counterclockwise direction, causing the left front of V2 to strike a parked vehicle to its left, a 2004 Ford Focus. After striking V2, V1 struck two other parked vehicles on the right and then continued westbound on the roadway. V1 then departed the roadway to the right and struck some bushes and trees. The police incident report narrative stated that the driver of V1 claimed that her brakes had failed; however, an inspection of V1 revealed no such defect. The police speculated that after the initial impact, the driver of V1 kept her foot on the accelerator, thinking it was the brake. The driver of V1 also told police that after the first impact, the air bag deployed and the car went out of control. It is likely that the air bag deployment confused the driver of V1 and also blocked her field of vision. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 29-year old female, along with her 5-year old daughter who was a passenger in the back seat, were transported to a local hospital with minor injuries. The driver of V2, a 43-year old male, went later for treatment. There was a passenger in the parked Ford Focus who was sitting in the passenger seat doing paperwork as she waited for a relative inside one of the buildings. She reported that she looked up and saw V1 going very fast prior to the crash, and then saw V2 coming toward the vehicle that she was in. The passenger in the parked vehicle was not injured.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V1 was when another vehicle encroached into her lane from a driveway, turning into the same direction. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to the driver of V1, although some associated factors were coded to her. First of all, the driver of V1 was traveling too fast for a parking lot. The passenger in the parked vehicle reported this, and the hard impact to V2 verified this. For this reason, the driver of V1 was also coded as driving aggressively. The driver of V1 was also unfamiliar with her vehicle - she told police that she had just rented the car from a rental agency. The driver of V1 had just left a doctor's office, and it was possible that she had received upsetting news or that she was late for another appointment. The driver of V1 cut her interview short, and so much information was unknown.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V2 was when he began to turn left onto the roadway. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as inadequate surveillance, a recognition error. He told police that he never saw V1 approaching because it was going too fast. Although it was believed that the driver of V1 was traveling too fast, it was not believed that this was the reason that the driver of V2 did not see V1. It was believed that the driver of V2 failed to look to his right immediately before pulling out from his parking space. The driver of V2 reported that he took a prescription medication to lower his cholesterol, but had no other health issues.

In summary, the crash occurred when V2 pulled from a parking space and attempted to turn left onto a drive-through roadway. The driver of V2 reported that he did not see V1 prior to the crash. The driver of V1 contributed to the crash by traveling too fast for the roadway/parking lot.