This two-vehicle rear-end crash occurred in the morning on a 2-lane undivided roadway. The conditions were daylight, dry, and clear with a moderate to low traffic level. The roadway ran northwest and southeast with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph).

V1, a 2001 Ford Expedition Eddie Bauer 4 x 4 with one occupant, was traveling northwest. V2, a 2001 Mitsubishi Galant ES with one occupant, was traveling ahead of V1 on the same roadway. V2 stopped in its lane to make a left turn and it was struck in the back by V1. V1 was not towed from the scene but V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 38-year old female that worked part-time for a catering business. She reported that she was in good health but had an unknown vision condition. On the morning of the crash, the driver of V2 drove her children to school. She was returning home from school and was driving on the same roads she always travels. As she drove west on the 2-lane undivided roadway, she claimed the Mitsubishi (V2) in front of her suddenly stopped without warning and she struck the back of it. This driver reported that she braked before the impact but that V2 never indicated it was stopping or turning left, and there was not enough time to avoid the collision. This driver's vehicle was not towed from the scene and she was not injured in the crash.

V2 was driven by a 33-year old female who worked as an office manager. Her typical work schedule was 8:00 AM to 5:30 PM Monday through Friday and her sleep timetable was normally 10:30 PM to 5:30 AM. She exercised every weekend with her son and did so the weekend before the crash and the day before the crash. She was near-sighted and wore contact lenses.

At the time of the crash, the driver of V2 was on her way to work. Once she reached the entrance to her company parking lot, she stopped in lane 1 of the 2-lane undivided road, activated her left-turn signal, and waited for traffic to clear. She reported there was an unusually light amount of traffic for that time of day, but a car traveling in the opposite direction (southeast) caused her to wait before she could turn left. As she waited to turn, she heard what sounded "like a train" traveling behind her so she glanced at her rear view mirror and saw a large Expedition "barreling" toward her. She could not see the driver of the SUV but remembers seeing a large grille approach her. She knew the SUV would not be able to stop in time so she braced her hands on the steering wheel, anticipating an impact. The front of the SUV struck the back of her Mitsubishi, forcing her sedan forward almost 30 meters and to the eastbound roadside. She was removed from her car by EMS and was treated and released from a trauma center. She suffered a strained neck and back from the whiplash of the collision and two black eyes after contacting her sun visor.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was when another vehicle was stopped in its lane. The Critical Reason for the Pre-crash Event was coded as "too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others." Other than excess speed, no additional associated factors were coded to the driver of V1.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was when another vehicle was in its lane, traveling in the same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason for the Pre-crash Event was not coded to the driver of V2 and no associated factors were coded to her.

A crash history report on V1's driver revealed that she had been involved in a crash 20 months earlier and was cited for failure to reduce speed. A crash history report on V2's driver revealed that she had been involved in three crashes in the past year.