This two-vehicle collision occurred during mid-afternoon daylight hours on a weekday. The crash occurred at a T-intersection, where a north-south side street intersects the south curb of an east-west main road. The side street is controlled by a stop sign. Shrubs approximately 1.82-meters (6-feet) tall are at the Southwest corner of the intersection adjacent to a cement sidewalk. These shrubs may have been a partial sight line restriction for both drivers. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse atmospheric conditions, and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Toyota Sienna minivan, was stopped facing northbound in a 56 kmph (35 mph) zone, in the first lane of the two-lane, two-way, undivided, dry, level, bituminous side street, about to turn left onto the main roadway into westbound traffic. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Ford Ranger super-cab pickup, was traveling eastbound in a 72 kmph (45 mph) zone, in the second lane of a five-lane, two-way, undivided, dry, level, bituminous roadway, approaching the intersection with the side street on its right. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

As V1 made its turn, the front of V2 impacted the left side of V1. The vehicles rotated towards each other, and the right side of V2 contacted the left side of V1 in a side-slap configuration. The vehicles separated, and V1 came to rest facing southeast in the center lane. V2 deflected northeast and departed the road over the north curb, impacting the curb with the front wheels. V2 continued moving northeast off the road, and impacted a chain link fence with its front plane, where V2 came to rest.

The 35-year-old male driver of V1 drives the van as a courtesy shuttle for his workplace, and was on his way back to work after making a drop-off. As he moved into the intersection, he was engaged in a conversation of unknown subject on his mobile phone. According to the interview statement of the driver he was not having a conversation on his cell phone; however, according to the driver of V2's statement on the police report and to the NASS researcher he reported seeing the driver of V1 engaged in conversation with a cell phone being held up to his left ear. The driver of V2 reported that when the two vehicles impacted he looked at the driver of V1 and observed he was still on his cell phone. Investigators at the scene observed that he suffers from some kind of cataract-like eye disorder, and he does not wear prescription lenses. It is unknown to what extent the eye disorder affects his vision. He reported that he looked both ways before proceeding, but he did not observe V2's approach. The critical precrash event for V1 was: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and is coded: Driver related recognition error, inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). Being on the cell phone was considered an interior distraction for this driver that contributed to the driver's inadequate surveillance and inattention to the driving task.

The 45-year-old male driver of V2 was traveling between job sites with pool cleaning chemicals and supplies in the pickup bed. He reported that he applied the brakes when he saw V1 enter the intersection, but was unable to sufficiently slow the vehicle. He reported that he observed the driver of V1 talking into a mobile telephone in his left hand as the vehicles engaged each other. The critical precrash event for V2 was: Other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.