The crash occurred in the middle of an intersection of a four-lane roadway controlled by a traffic control signal. Conditions were dark with lights and dry in the evening on a weekday. The posted speed limit was 64 kpmh (40 mph) for the southbound lane and 40 kmph (25 mph) for the westbound lane.

V1 was a 1993 Plymouth Grand Voyager minivan traveling southbound in the right lane approaching the intersection with a green traffic control signal intending on continuing straight. V2, a 2000 Chevy Malibu sedan, was traveling northbound in travel lane #2 intending on turning left at the intersection. As V1 was going straight, an unknown vehicle stopped to let V2 turn. V1 was to the right of the unknown vehicle and the driver of V2 did not see V1. The front right of V2 struck the front of V1 in the southbound lane. V1 then struck a utility pole. V1 came to final rest facing southwest against the pole. V2 came to final rest facing west. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 29-year-old female drove V1 and was not injured. She stated that the light was green and she didn't see V2 until the last second. The driver of V1 braked and swerved right and hit the pole. V1 was traveling between 34 and 48 kmph (21 and 30 mph) at the time of impact. V1 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was the other vehicle encroachment from the opposite direction-over the left lane line. No Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was coded to V1. The driver felt rested and was familiar with the area.

A 30-year-old female drove V2 and was not injured. She stated that the light was green and an unknown vehicle opposing her stopped to let her turn left. The driver of V2 did not see V1. V2 was traveling between 18 and 32 kmph (11 and 20 mph) at the time of impact. V2 did not take any avoidance actions. V2 remained at the scene.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was this vehicle turning left at the intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a recognition error; inadequate surveillance; looked but did not see. Associated factors coded to V2 a include a driver recognition factor; driver inattention regarding an undisclosed personal problem, other recognition factor; impending problem masked by traffic flow pattern, inexperienced driver; first time driving this vehicle and only having license for one year.