This crash involved a single vehicle that rolled over on a two way, two lane, divided asphalt roadway. It occurred during morning daylight hours, there were no roadway deficiencies and no sight restrictions noted. There is a depressed soft dirt median separating the westbound and eastbound lanes. There were no adverse weather conditions and the weather was clear. The speed limit on the roadway is posted at 105 kmph (65 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Jaguar 4 door, was traveling westbound in the number two lane when the vehicle exited the lane to the left and then returned back into the number two lane. The vehicle then began to rotate counter clockwise and skid laterally when it finally departed the left side of the roadway. The vehicle then began to rotate clockwise and skidding laterally in the median until the left side tires furrowed in the soft dirt, struck some shrubbery, causing the vehicle to trip and rotate around it's longitudinal axis for 2 quarter turns before coming to rest. The left side tires and the right front tire were flat. The vehicle was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver, a 52-year-old female, stated that she and her husband had just purchased this vehicle and she was driving it home across several States. She stated had been driving for about 1½ hours for the trip today. Her stated origin is approximately 4 hours away from the crash site, so the times she was stating is questionable. She stated that she had 4.5 hours of sleep and been driving since then. The driver stated that she began driving this vehicle approximately 5 minutes prior to the crash. She and her husband stopped about 16 kilometers (10 miles) prior to the crash location and switched vehicles. This is the first time she had driven this vehicle and the first time on this roadway. The driver was unable to recall the events of the crash. She was fatigued and fell asleep while driving.

The critical pre-crash event was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: sleeping, that is, actually asleep.