This is a two-vehicle crash occurred on a two way, five lane, dry, asphalt roadway. The roadway has two northbound and two southbound lanes that are separated by a continuous left turn lane. There are driveway access roads on the west and east sides of the North/south roadway where the crash occurred. Each driveway access road has a stop sign posted for traffic control. The driveway access road to the east side of the roadway has a dedicated right turn lane used primarily to access this area. The crash occurred during mid-afternoon daylight hours; there were no roadway deficiencies and no sight line restrictions noted at the scene. The speed limit on the north/south roadway is posted 72 kmph (45 mph). There were no adverse weather conditions that contributed to this crash.

Vehicle one (V1), an unknown white sedan, was apparently traveling northbound in the number one lane and then traveled into the right turn lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Mercury Mariner, was traveling northbound in the number two lane at a police reported speed of 48 kmph (30 mph). V1 then entered the driveway access road and made a turn to the left to cross the north/south roadway. The front of V1 struck the right rear area of V2 and then left the area and could not be located. V1 was not towed due to damage. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V2, a 71-year-old male, did not receive any injuries as a result of this crash. The right front passenger, a 70-year-old female, was transported from the scene by EMS for unknown type injuries. This driver began this trip five minutes before the crash and was headed from a gas station to his home. This driver indicated that he wears glasses for reading only. He also indicated that he was following his drivers' license restriction for wearing lenses.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over [passing through] intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: type of driver error unknown.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from driveway, across path. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.