This two vehicle rear end type crash occurred just past noon in the number two northbound lane of a five lane, north/south bituminous asphalt roadway. The roadway has two northbound and two southbound lanes and a continuous left turn that separates the lanes. This crash is intersection related. The intersection where the crash occurred is controlled by traffic lights that appeared to be functioning properly at the time of the crash. The speed limit on the roadway where the crash occurred is posted 72 kmph (45 mph). The were no environmental factors that contributed to this crash and there were no obstructions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Nissan 4 door Sentra sedan, was driven by a 19 year-old male with one passenger. V1 was traveling northbound in the number one lane. The vehicle was following a non-contact vehicle that had stopped suddenly in the traffic lane. The driver of V1 steered the vehicle to the left and then applied the brakes. V1 began to travel in the number two lane and skidded for approximately 28 meters (92 feet) before impacting with the rear of vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Honda Accord sedan driven by a 17 year-old female that was stopped in the traffic lane for the red light. The impact caused V1 to rotate counterclockwise coming to rest partially in the number one and two lanes of the northbound lanes facing in a northwesterly direction. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1 and 80 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 had been racing with the non-contact vehicle that had stopped in front of his vehicle, forcing him to steer his vehicle to the left and apply the brakes. V1 also had mismatched tire sizes on the front versus the rear of the vehicle, in addition all tires had minimal tread depth and were under inflated. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the left side of travel lane. The critical reason was coded driver related factor: aggressive driving behavior.

The critical pre-crash event for V-2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from adjacent lane (same direction) - over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.