A two vehicle daytime collision occurred in the northbound lanes of an urban arterial street. In the ½ mile surrounding the crash, the roadway heads east/west, with the northbound lanes heading west. The road consists of four lanes of two-way traffic paved with bituminous asphalt. Thru the collision scene, the roadway is straight and level. The speed limit for the road is 48 kmph (30 mph). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the road was dry.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1988 Volvo 740 sedan with only a driver, was traveling west. Vehicle two (V2), a 1992 Toyota Camry sedan with a driver and passenger, was heading east in lane two. It is unknown what travel lane V1 was in initially, but immediately before the crash, V1 crossed over the centerline of the roadway into lane two then into lane one. In the process, the front right corner of V2 struck the right rear of V1. V1 was deflected clockwise and continued in a straight path off the roadway and into a utility pole where it came to rest. The driver of V2 braked prior to impact but could not avoid V1. V2 came to rest adjacent to the impact location. The driver of V1 was transported due to injuries, and both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

V1 could not be interviewed due to the lack of contact information; a police record of the collision was not available. The driver was a male of an unknown age. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over lane line on left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical event assigned to this driver was coded as a driver related factor: type of driver error unknown.

The driver of V2 was a 24-year old male. The driver of V2 gave the description of crash events as listed above during the interview at the collision scene. The driver has only been driving for three months and has limited driving experience. He saw V1 crossing the centerline of the roadway; he applied the brakes but not in time to avoid the collision. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction-over left lane line. The critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle.