The crash occurred in the third lane of the eastbound side of an eight-lane roadway divided by a positive barrier. There were four eastbound lanes and four westbound lanes. This roadway curved right with a radius of curvature of 1250m and a positive grade with a posted speed limit of 112 kmph (70 mph). It was evening on a weekend and it was raining and the road was wet. Traffic flow was congested.

V1, a 1996 Buick Skylark 4-door with one occupant was traveling in lane two. V2, a 2002 Toyota Tacoma with one occupant was traveling in lane three behind V1. The driver of V1 stated that he thought that V2 wanted to get over in his lane. So, he applied the brakes to let him over and when he did he started to spin counter-clockwise. The driver of V1 did not know why this happened but thought that it may have been due to the slippery roads from the rain. The front of V2 contacted the left side of V1. The driver of V2 stated that he barely had time to react and applied the brakes at the same time he contacted V1. As V1 was rotating it contacted its right front with the concrete barrier it continued to rotate and the back right hit the concrete barrier. V1 came to final rest after the back hit a speed limit sign. V2 after contacting v1 rotated counter-clockwise and its front right contacted the concrete barrier it continued rotating and its back right contacted the concrete barrier. V2 came to final rest facing east in lane four. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Buick Skylark, was driven by a 19-year old male who reported no injuries. He advised that he had just come from getting his hair cut and was on his way to his friend's house. He advised that he was traveling between 98-112 Kmph (61-70 mph) prior to him loosing control.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V1 was “this vehicle loss of control due to: traveling too fast for conditions”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a “false assumption of other's actions”. Some associated factors for V1 are the driver's inexperience and it was raining.

The 2002 Toyota Tacoma was driven by a 59-year old male who reported minor injuries. He advised that he had come from buying this vehicle and was on his way home. He advised that he was traveling between 82-97 kmph (51-60 mph) prior to the V1 loosing control. He could not avoid hitting V1.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V2 was “other vehicle encroachment: from same direction over right lane line”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors for V2 were this was his first time in this vehicle, but he was familiar with it because he used to have one just like it. He had been on the road for eight hours but stated that he was not fatigued and seemed alert at the crash. Also, this was his first time on this roadway and it was raining.