This two-vehicle collision occurred at the T-intersection of a north-south main roadway and an east-west side street. The intersection is controlled by a stop sign for eastbound traffic. The north-south roadway is a seven-lane, two-way, bituminous street with a two-way left turn lane, and is designated a 56 kmph (35 mph) zone in the area of the crash. The east-west roadway is a two-lane, two-way, bituminous street, and is designated a 40 kmph (25 mph) zone. Both roadways were dry, straight and level. The roadways were free of defects, and there were no adverse weather conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Lincoln Town Car 4-door sedan, was stopped facing eastbound at the intersection with the intention of turning right into southbound traffic on the main roadway. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Cadillac Seville 4-door sedan, was traveling southbound in the second lane, approaching the intersection on its right with the intention of continuing straight. A non-contact vehicle was in the first lane of southbound traffic, turning right onto the side street. V1 executed a wide right turn into the second southbound lane, where the front of V2 impacted the left side of V1. Both vehicles deflected south to final rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 48-year-old male driver of V1 is a limousine driver with 32 years of driving experience. He reported that he had just dropped off a client and was on his was to buy cigarettes. He did not report seeing a vehicle turning right from southbound traffic, but he did report that a vehicle was parked along the curb of southbound traffic past the intersection, which is why he turned into the second southbound lane. He said that he never saw V2's approach before the collision. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling, turning right at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related decision error, turned with obstructed view.

The 23-year-old male driver of V2 was on his way to a hospital to drop off his passenger at an appointment at 2:00pm. He said that he was not in a hurry. He reported that a vehicle in the first southbound lane, which was turning right at the intersection, obstructed his view of V1. When V1 executed the turn, the driver of V2 honked his horn and applied his brakes, but was unable to avoid the collision. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, turning into same direction. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.