A two-vehicle daytime collision occurred shortly after noon on a Saturday. The collision occurred heading north on a one-lane, one-way freeway entrance ramp. The pre-crash roadway curves left. The travel lane is paved bituminous, as are the shoulders that border the left and right side of the entrance ramp. Access to the roadway is controlled. The posted speed limit for the roadway is 97 kmph (60 mph).

Vehicle 1 (V1), a 1998 Honda CRV, was traveling north in lane one. Vehicle 2 (V2) a 1993 Dodge Intrepid was initially over onto the right shoulder facing north. The driver of V1 indicated V2 was partially on the roadway when the impact occurred. It is unknown if V2 was re-entering the roadway, or just stopped partially on the roadway. The vehicle dynamics indicate that both vehicles were moving forward at impact, which also suggest that V2 was reentering the roadway from the right shoulder. The front right of V1 impacted the left side of V2. Then V1 rolled over coming to rest on the roof. V2 came to rest off the right shoulder following the collision in a grassy area. V1 and V2 were both towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 21-year-old female who was heading home from visiting friends. She was reportedly in good health, with possible allergies that morning. She wears corrective lenses for astigmatism, and had on non-prescription sunglasses, she was considered to be fatigued, as she only had 4 hours of sleep the night prior to the collision. She was a little upset at the beginning of the trip as she had an argument with her friend prior to departing her friends' house. She had driven approximately 19 kilometers (12 miles) on this trip. The driver stated that she was accelerating up the freeway ramp and observed V2 partially on and partially off the roadway. She thought she could get past it, but ended up impacting the vehicle instead. This indicates she exhibited poor directional control of the vehicle and also misjudged the gap distance between the two vehicles.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with lower steady speed. The critical reason for the critical event assigned to this driver was a driver performance error: poor directional control (e.g. failing to control vehicle with ordinary skill expected). The poor control was exacerbated by her fatigue and thinking about the recent argument. The driver observed V2 partially in the travel lane and exhibited poor judgment by: not yielding to the forward vehicle & reducing her speed; not steering far enough to the left to avoid the impact; and, making a false assumption the other vehicle would remain stopped and let her pass.

The driver of V2 was a 36-year-old male whose pre-crash factors are unknown, as he was not interviewed. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed.. The critical reason for the critical event was not assigned to this driver.