This crash occurred in the early afternoon of a weekday on the south (left) side of a rural east/west undivided roadway. The roadway consisted of one lane in each direction with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). The bituminous roadway curved to the right (radius of curvature of 168m, no super-elevation) and then straightened out with a positive 4% slope in the westbound direction. The traffic flow was light and the roads were wet from a rain that was falling at the time of the crash.

V1, a rebuilt Dodge Stratus (rear end of V1 was from a 2004 Dodge Stratus) two-door with one occupant, was westbound negotiating the curve. As V1 exited the curve and entering a straight stretch of roadway it departed the road off the left side and struck a traffic warning sign, with its front left, continued forward and struck a small embankment with the front end. V1 then entered a counter-clockwise yaw as it skidded along the edge of the roadway for about 60m where it went down an embankment before coming to rest near a utility pole. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1, a 20-year old female, sustained minor injuries and transported to a hospital for treatment. She said she was traveling about 40 kmph (25 mph) on her way from school to a friend's home. It was raining heavily as she exited the curved section of road her vehicle began to fishtail. She hit her brakes to regain control but they locked up and she skidded off the road to the left. Where she struck a sign, and an embankment before skidded sideways for a distance before coming to rest. The driver rated her vehicle's brakes as in poor condition.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road left side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was driver related too fast for conditions (curved, wet road). In addition to traveling too fast for conditions the rain and wet roads were coded as associated factors.