This two-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of a four-way intersection. There was one eastbound and one westbound lane without lane dividing lines. The intersection also included one southbound and one northbound lane. They were also undivided. Curbside parking was permitted on the right side of all the travel lanes. A passive stop sign controlled the eastbound and westbound directions of the intersection and they were visibility located at the corners of intersection on both the east and westbound directions. There were no control devices for the northbound and southbound travel directions. The asphalt roadways were dry and level and there were no adverse weather conditions. The speed limit for all directions was 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during the early morning daylight hours. The roadway was free of any defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.

Vehicle one, a 1999 Chevrolet Blazer, was traveling eastbound through the four-way intersection attempting to make a right turn when it contacted with its front the right side of vehicle two, a 1999 Freightliner Passenger Bus, traveling southbound through the same intersection going straight. After the initial impact, vehicle one rotated clockwise traveled several feet where it came to final rest facing southward. Vehicle one was towed due to disabling damages. Vehicle two, after the impact, continued traveling southbound where it came to a controlled stop several feet from the point of impact. Its damages were minimal and it was not towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a 62-year old male, said he stopped at the corner for the stop sign and as he attempted to make a right turn his vehicle was struck by vehicle two which he explained never stopped before entering the intersection. He was traveling southbound on the two-way roadway on his way to pick up some things from his daughter's house. He travels on the roadway weekly and is familiar with it, he said. He had a stroke earlier this year and stopped working as a result. He was not ill at the time of the crash. When asked if he knew the speed limit for the roadway, he said he was not sure. His travel speed of 15 mph was not a factor in the crash. When explained that the bus didn't have a stop sign, he was surprised and repeated she didn't stop. He's been a license driver for over 44-years. He was not injured.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V1 is: “this vehicle traveling, turning right at the intersection”. The Critical Reason was coded to “this vehicle is: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see)”. Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle include: over familiarity with the roadway. Street does not stop.

The driver of vehicle two, a 33-year old female, said she was traveling southbound through the intersection when vehicle one attempting to make a right turn without looking in her direction first struck the right front side of her vehicle. She's been a bus driver for over six years with a clean driver record, she said. She was currently working at the time of the crash. She explained she did not have a passenger to pick up or drop off at the corner so she did not stop at the intersection. She observed driver of vehicle one making the right turn without looking in her direction. He wasn't going fast just not paying attention. She was not injured. Her passenger was transported to the hospital with minor injuries.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V2 is: “other motor vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into same direction”. The Critical Reason was “not coded to this vehicle”. There were no associated factors for the driver of this vehicle.