This 4-vehicle crash occurred on a weekday during early morning rush hour. This northbound/southbound interstate had a posted speed limit of 80 kmph (50 mph) and varied in both its road surface type (concrete and asphalt), as well as its number of travel lanes. All four vehicles (V1, V2, V3 and V4) were traveling southbound on a portion of interstate that had 3 lanes, was level (grade was <2% downhill) and straight, and had an asphalt surface. Conditions were dry and clear and the heavy congestion that occurred on this portion of roadway made for slow, stop and go traffic. A complete interview was obtained from the drivers of V2, V3 and V4. The driver of V1, only mentioned in the police narrative, fled the scene.

V1, a white pick-up truck of unknown make and model year, was driven by an adult male. He was traveling southbound in lane 3 when traffic in lane 3 began to come to an abrupt stop. Information provided by the driver of V2 and V3 as well as the physical evidence showed that V1 braked and steered to the right in an attempt to avoid striking V2. V1 was unsuccessful and struck the rear of V2 towards its right side. The impact caused V2 to veer to the left where the left front portion of her vehicle scraped along the raised metal traffic barrier. V2 was then redirected back towards, and partially into, lane 2 where V1 again struck V2. This impact was to the right passenger side of V2. The driver of V1 then pulled into the right shoulder lane with the other vehicles as the drivers were going to exchange information and evaluate the situation. According to the driver of V2, it was when he and the driver's of V2 and V4 exited their vehicles that the driver of the pick-up truck sped off. He sustained an unknown amount of damage to the front left corner and side area of his vehicle. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V1 was “Other Motor Vehicle in Lane/Traveling in same direction while decelerating." The Critical Reason for Critical Pre-Crash Event was coded as "Driver Related Factor/Unknown Recognition Error." Associated factors coded to this driver were: congestion/rush hour traffic and aggressive driving/tailgating. Because this driver fled the scene, it is most likely that there were other associated factors that would have been coded to this vehicle and driver.

V2, a 2002 Toyota Camry driven by a 54-year old female, was driving southbound in lane 3. A complete on-scene interview was conducted with this driver. She reported that she was very familiar with this roadway and it is a part of her daily commute to and from work. According to this driver, she was traveling southbound in lane 3 and noticed that everyone in front of her was rapidly decelerating. She applied her brakes and thought that the situation was stable but was then struck in the rear by V1. The driver of V2 thought that she then hit the guardrail to her left before being struck again by V1, this time on her right passenger side. After this impact, V2 then struck the rear of V3. V2 sustained disabling damage and came to its final rest in the right shoulder lane.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V2 was "Other Motor Vehicle in Lane/Traveling in same direction with higher speed." The Critical Reason was not coded to V2. Associated factors coded to this driver were: congestion/rush hour traffic and aggressive driving/tailgating.

V3, a 1995 Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme driven by a 39-year old male, was driving in lane 3 and in front of V2. A complete interview was conducted with this driver and, regarding the conditions at the time of the crash, his description was the same as that of the driver's of both V2 and V4: heavy rush-hour traffic with stop and go movement. The driver of V2 stated that when he noticed traffic coming to a stop, he immediately slammed on his brakes. He acknowledged that he was following V4 too closely, though he thought he still had enough time to stop before striking the rear of V4. He also stated that as he was monitoring the situation in front of him, he heard a car get struck from behind him, looked in his left side view mirror to see V2 getting "knocked around" (verbatim). Although it was a matter of milliseconds, this driver stated that "a second later that car (driver pointed to V2) hit me in the back." (Driver then pointed to the rear of his vehicle.) According to the drivers of V3 and V4, V4 had successfully swerved into lane 2 to avoid striking the vehicle in front of V4. While this was occurring, the impact to V3's rear by V2's front sent V3 straight ahead in lane 3 and caused his front right side to contact the left rear corner of V4.

V4, 1999 Mercury Cougar driven by a 35-year old male, was driving in front of V3. A full interview was conducted on-scene. He explained that when traffic began to come to a halt, he braked and steered right and successfully avoided striking the vehicle in front of him. He stated that he heard tires screeching and the sounds of the crashes that were happening directly behind him. This driver also explained that as he was moving into lane 2, V3 slid across V4's left rear corner and, at final rest, V3 was sitting in lane 3, and next to V4.

Because V3 and V4 were not part of the first harmful event, the Critical Pre-Crash Event and Critical Reason were not coded to either of these vehicles. However, V3 and V4 were also following too closely/tailgating.

Medic units were dispatched to the scene though no drivers reported being injured and there was no need for on-scene treatment or transport to an emergency room. V1 was never found, V2 as towed from the scene due to disabling damage, and both V3 and V4 were fully functional.