This two-vehicle crash occurred on an urban freeway near an exit ramp on a six-lane divided roadway with a positive barrier. For southbound traffic there is six travel lanes. The road was dry, traveled, level concrete. The posted speed limit is 80 kph (50 mph). Traffic was heavy at the time of the accident. This crash occurred during daylight hours with clear skies.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Chrysler 300M with one occupant, was southbound in the sixth travel lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Honda Accord wagon with one occupant, was southbound in the first travel lane. V1 crossed through the fifth, fourth, third and second lanes and entered the first travel lane. The front of V1 impacted the left side of V2. V1 continued to its pre-impact trajectory and came to rest facing southeast in the exit ramp. Vehicle two rotated counterclockwise and came to rest facing north in the third travel lane. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Neither driver was injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-one year old male refused to be interviewed. From information on the officer's report and witnesses, the driver of V1 was traveling in lane six and cut across the six lanes of travel to take the exit ramp. The driver changed lanes when unsafe and failed to signal his intention.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling: over the lane line on the right side of travel lane". The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V1 and was coded as "driver related factor: aggressive driving behavior".

The driver of vehicle two, a fifty-seven year old female, was heading home from work at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about twenty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that she never saw the other vehicle coming. This driver stated that she applied the brakes after impact. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "other vehicle encroachment: from adjacent lane-over the left lane line". The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "not coded to this vehicle".