This crash occurred on a weekday morning on the northern roadside of an undivided residential roadway. The east/west roadway consisted of one lane in each direction and featured a posted speed limit of 56kmph (35 mph). The bituminous roadway was dry, straight, and level. The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1990 Chevrolet Berretta, was eastbound on the roadway when it crossed the centerline and departed the roadway to the left. V1 impacted a post rail fence with its front, a metal stake with its front, a 36cm tree with its right, and a 25 cm tree with its left, and came to final rest after impacting with a second tree (25 cm) with its front. The top of the 36cm tree sheared off and impacted with the top right of the vehicle. These impacts caused damage to the front, top, left and right sides of the vehicle and V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1, a belted 25-year-old male, was traveling with an unbelted 23-year-old female in the front right seat. The driver stated he was arguing with his girlfriend (passenger) and had turned his head to look at her. He stated he did not give her time to buckle her seat belt as he sped out of a driveway and down the roadway. He stated he was very angry, yelling, speeding and not paying attention to his driving. He stated that he braked as he began departing the roadway but could not stop the vehicle. The passenger was airlifted to a trauma center for head injuries while the driver was not injured.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side. The Critical Reason was coded as a driver related factor, an internal distraction. Associated factors coded to V1 include driver inattention as he was arguing with his passenger at the time of the crash, traveling too fast for conditions, and being emotionally upset. Police did not consider alcohol or illegal drugs to be factors in this crash however, the driver was taken into custody for vehicular assault and issued several summonses.