This early afternoon two vehicle crash occurred between a 1990 Pontiac 6000 and a 2006 Chrysler Town and Country van, at an intersection of a 3 lane one-way roadway and a 2 lane two way undivided roadway. The Pontiac was traveling west when it struck the left side of the Chrysler, which was heading south. The intersection was controlled by a stop sign for southbound traffic. The speed limit for both roadways is 56 kmph (35 mph). No adverse weather conditions were present at the time of the crash.

Vehicle 1 was a white 1990 Pontiac 6000 4 door sedan driven by a seat belted 49 year-old female who takes Diazepam, Nexium, and an unknown allergy medicine. The driver of vehicle 1 was traveling west in the second lane of a 3 lane one-way bituminous, level roadway with no controls. The driver had a good 9 hours sleep the previous night and was fully rested. The driver was going to a doctor's office to pay a bill for her husband who had surgery just recently; her husband was in the vehicle at the time of the crash. Driver of vehicle was talking to the passenger when the crash occurred. The driver did not brake until after impact. Vehicle 1 rotated counter clockwise to end up facing southeast in the middle of the roadway. Both the driver and passenger were transported to the hospital. Vehicle 1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle 2 was a copper-colored 2006 Chrysler town and country van that the driver had just bought a few days before. The driver was a 41 year-old female under no medication and was seat belted at the time of the crash. The driver had 10 hours of sleep the night before and was well rested. The afternoon of the crash the driver had gone to a golf club house to meet friends and have lunch. Approximately 30 minutes before the crash, the driver left the clubhouse to head home. The driver ended up on this roadway for the first time. The driver stated that she stopped at the intersection, waited 30 seconds or more and saw vehicle 1 about half a block down the street and thought she had plenty of time to cross the intersection. Vehicle 2 was struck on the left rear side as it crossed the intersection. Vehicle 2 rotated counter clockwise to end up facing northwest in the middle of the roadway. Vehicle 2 was driven away from the scene.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was the encroachment of vehicle 2 from the crossing street. There was no critical reason assigned to this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was vehicle crossing through the intersection. The critical reason was driver related; illegal maneuver (driving through traffic signal.) During the interview it appeared that the driver of vehicle 2 had been drinking alcohol due to a smell on her breath, but she showed no physical impairment. However, the driver could not explain how she got to the crash scene from the location where she started. A video of the crash scene taken by a building security shows vehicle 2 entering the intersection and being struck by vehicle 1. At impact, the vehicle was going at such a speed that the vehicle was not stopped at the stop sign before proceeding into the intersection. The driver was not familiar with the route traveled or the vehicle.