This two-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of a driveway, and a two-lane roadway. The roadway has a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). There is one lane in each direction with no traffic controls. It was mid morning on a cloudy weekday and the traffic was light due to it being on a residence roadway after rush hour.

Vehicle one, a 2001 Ford F250 was backing in a westerly direction onto the roadway. Vehicle two, a 2006 Pontiac Grand Prix was northbound in the first lane. Vehicle one entered the roadway and was impacted on the right side by vehicle two's front. Vehicle one was pushed slight clockwise and came to rest on its wheels facing southeast in the northbound lane. Vehicle two came to rest at the impact on its wheels facing northwest in lane one. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a seventy-four year old male was leaving his home and heading to pick up a piece of art. He was leaving his garage and usually has a routine of looking to the right first and then the left, which he did that morning. He saw the vehicles to the right in the driveway and on the shoulder, but continued to back up. He stated he should have looked to the right again, but didn't. He is retired and sculptures for leisure and makes an income at it. Three years ago, he was diagnosed with sleep apnea because he was overweight, but has lost weight and no longer needs treatment. He takes Vitamins, Norvasc and Benacor on a regular basis. He wears glasses because he is he far-sighted and was not wearing sunglasses at the time. He does not work out on a regular basic, but did chop wood at the cabin he and his wife own in the mountains. He slept nine hours the night before the crash, which is his usual sleep and wakes up feeling drowsy for a half hour. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a forty-three year old female left home and drove less than 1.6 kilometers (one mile) and was heading to work. She stated she worked 30-35 hours a week before the crash, with three hours being the shortest and ten hours being the longest with an average of six hours a day. She has also worked six days since her last day off. She slept ten hours the night before, compared to her normal sleep of nine hours and wakes up feeling rested. She takes Percocet and Allegra on a regular basis. She stated her and her son have been involved in three crashes within the past 23 days and she had been driving this rental car for a week while her car was being repaired. She stated she saw vehicle one backing onto the roadway slowly and then fast. She stated she applied the brakes and steered to the left to avoid the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded: other (specified as: this vehicle backing onto roadway from driveway). The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to vehicle one and was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance. The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded: other (specified as: motor vehicle backing onto roadway). The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was not coded to this vehicle.