This two-vehicle crash occurred on a rural three-lane, undivided highway. In the northbound direction, there are two travel lanes and the roadway is straight and uphill. In the southbound direction, there is a single travel lane and the roadway is straight and downhill. The posted speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours on a weekend afternoon. Traffic flow was light.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Ford Focus with one occupant, was southbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Chevrolet Malibu with one occupant, was southbound in lane one in front of V1. The driver of V2 saw a non-contact vehicle heading northbound in lane two pull into the southbound lane before it turned left onto a gravel driveway. The driver of V2 quickly applied the brakes and V2 was hit in the left rear by the right front of V1. V2 lost control and departed the roadway on the right. The driver of V2 overcorrected with a sharp left turn, which sent V2 into a counterclockwise yaw. V2 quickly reached a trip point when it was approximately perpendicular to the roadway, facing east-southeast, and rolled two quarter turns. V2 came to rest facing east-northeast on its top. V1 drove to a controlled stop on the roadside just before the point of V2's rollover. V1 was towed due to minor front-end damage; V2 was towed due to moderate top damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-five-year-old female, was driving from a nearby park to her home. She was well rested, drives this route a couple of times every week, and is very familiar with her vehicle. She stated that she applied the brakes, but was unable to avoid hitting V2 because of the abrupt stop. She is in excellent physical health and takes no medications. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as: other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: following too closely to respond to unexpected actions.

The driver of V2, a twenty-eight-year-old male, was driving from his home to his parents' home. He was well rested, drives this roadway once a week, and is very comfortable with his vehicle. He takes Zoloft for depression, but otherwise is in good physical health. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as: other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.