This two-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours on a weekday. The crash occurred on a straight, level stretch of a seven-lane, two-way east-west, bituminous roadway. A two-way left turn lane separates eastbound and westbound traffic. The speed limit in the area of the crash is 56 kmph (35 mph) in both directions. Posted signage prohibits parking along the curb-line during morning traffic.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Kia Sephia 4-door sedan, was stopped facing west in the two-way left turn lane, and was intending to turn left into a parking garage. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Toyota Camry Solara 2-door coupe, was traveling eastbound in the first lane, passing the garage entrance on its right. Heavy traffic in the second and third eastbound lanes stopped to allow V1 to turn. As V1 turned, the front of V2 impacted the right side of V1. Both vehicles deflected southeast to final rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 51-year-old female driver of V1 was driving with a suspended (expired) license. She reported that she was commuting from home to work, and was making a left turn into the parking structure of her workplace. Traffic in the second and third eastbound lanes stopped to allow her to proceed, and she could not see traffic in the first eastbound lane. She never saw V2 before the impact. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1 and was coded: Driver-related decision error, Other Decision Error (specified as: turned with obstructed view).

The 22-year-old male driver of V2 reported that traffic was stop-and-go in the area of the crash. He was also commuting to work, and was having a social conversation with his mother, the right front passenger. He reported the he saw V2 as it entered his lane and applied the brakes, but was unable to stop in time. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.