This four-vehicle rear end type crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a six-lane roadway divided by a painted median. There were three northbound lanes and three southbound lanes. This was a straight, level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 64 kmph (40 mph). It was early afternoon on a weekend and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was moderate.

Vehicle four (V4), a 2006 four-door Toyota Scion with one occupant, was northbound in lane two. It came to a stop behind other vehicles stopped for a red light. Vehicle three (V3), a 2001 four-door Chrysler Sebring with two occupants, was northbound in lane two and had stopped behind V4. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 two-door Ford Ranger pickup with one occupant, was northbound in lane two and was stopped behind V3. Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 four-door Chevrolet Prizm with one occupant, was northbound in lane two approaching the stopped vehicles. The front of V1 struck the back of V2 causing V2 to move forward where the front struck the rear of V3 which in turn moved forward and struck the rear of V4. All four vehicles came to rest on its wheels forward of its respective impact location. Only V1 was towed from the scene. None of the occupants were injured or transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

A 59 year-old male drove V1. He refused the interview and vehicle inspection on-scene. According to the police report he was distracted. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The Critical Pre-crash Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded: unknown recognition error. No other information is available

A 67 year-old male drove V2. He stated he left church about 15 minutes prior to the crash and was heading home to watch the football game. He stated he was in front of V1. He stated he was listening to music and just stopped behind V3 who was stopped behind 20 cars or more vehicles that were stopped for a stoplight. The driver stated he is retired, but works part time two months on and two months off delivering books, and was on his two months off. He had colon cancer in 2004 and has not had any re-occurrence. He does not take medications or drugs and is far-sighted so wears prescription glasses and sunglasses. He is active and runs around a lake every 3rd day for an hour. In between times, he plays golf. He usually sleeps seven hours a night and takes a nap for half an hour to an hour everyday. He usually wakes up drowsy for a couple minutes and feels rested when he gets out of bed. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Pre-crash Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle.

A 59 year-old male drove V3. He stated he and his wife left home about 15 minutes before the crash occurred and was driving to a symphony. He stated at the time of the crash his wife was sleeping and he was listening to music when he stopped for traffic and was impacted from behind and pushed into V4. . The driver stated he does not take any medications or drugs and is near-sighted and wears prescription glasses and sunglasses. Seven days prior to the crash, he stated he worked around the house trimming trees, mowing the lawn and everything that goes with yard work. He rode his bike the day of the crash for 32 kilometers (20 miles), which takes one and one half hours, but usually rides it longer. He slept over eight hours the night before the crash. He usually sleeps over six hours and usually wakes up a little tired. He works twelve hours every day for five days with a total of sixty hours a week. V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The Critical Pre-crash Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle.

A 26-year-old female drove V4. Only basic information was obtained on the vehicle and driver per study requirements.