This two-vehicle collision occurred on a foggy weekday morning. The crash occurred at the four-leg intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light traffic signal with no protected left phase, and the speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph) in all directions. Both intersecting roadways are straight, five-lane, two-way, bituminous roadways, and there is a slight downhill slope approaching the intersection from the west. The fog was limiting visibility to approximately 100 meters (328 feet), and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Chevrolet half-ton Tahoe SUV, was stopped in the third eastbound lane (left-turn only) at the intersection and waiting for an opportunity to turn left into northbound traffic. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was traveling westbound in the second lane, and approaching the intersection with the intention of turning left. As the tri-light entered the yellow phase, V1 executed its left turn. As V1 turned, the front of V2 impacted the front of V1. Both vehicles moved west to final rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 42-year-old female driver of V1 reported that she has 22 years driving experience but has never received any driver's training. She reported that she saw V2's approach, but when the light turned yellow, she assumed that V2 would slow. She stated that as she began her turn, she realized that V2 was accelerating instead of slowing. She applied the brakes, but was unable to avoid the collision. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded a driver-related decision error: false assumption of other's actions.

The 22-year-old driver of V2 reported that she was driving with the radio on, and her vehicle is equipped with large after-market speakers and a digital-portable music device port. She admits that she was traveling above the posted limit, and that she normally drives that way. As she approached the intersection, she saw V1 suddenly turn into her path. She did not take any evasive action before the collision. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over left lane line. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.