This two-vehicle crash occurred in a traffic signal-controlled intersection. Both roadways are level, straight and divided by a curbed median. The northbound and southbound travel lanes consist of two through lanes and a dedicated left-turn lane. The speed limit for this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). It was dark at the time of the crash. The street lights were on and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Ford Explorer, was northbound in lane two, intending to continue straight through the intersection. V2, a 1995 Honda Civic, was southbound in lane three, planning to turn left at the intersection. As both vehicles approached the intersection, the signal was green. In the intersection, the front of V1 struck the front of V2. Both vehicles rotated and came to rest within the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-three-year-old female, was driving from her home to meet her husband for dinner. She was well rested, healthy and very familiar with her vehicle. She is currently taking the medication Cipro. This driver drives on this roadway daily. She stated that she was singing along with the radio and proceeded into the intersection since she noticed that the signal was green.

The driver of V2, a twenty-four-year-old male, was traveling with a twenty-two-year-old female. They had left their home and were on their way to pick up their child. This driver was well rested, healthy and very familiar with his vehicle and route. He was in a hurry since he needed to be at work thirty-five minutes after the time of the crash. He stated that he was concentrating on making his turn as he "tried to beat the light" so he would not have to wait through another cycle.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded not coded to this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed.