This two-vehicle crash occurred in the westbound lane of a seven-lane divided roadway. There were four westbound and three eastbound travel lanes with a curbed median. Signalized traffic control devices controlled all directions of travel. The asphalt roadways were dry, level, and straight and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit was 64 kmph (40 mph). The crash occurred on a weekend during the early evening dark hours. The roadway was free of any defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.

Vehicle one, 2004 Dodge Dakota pickup, was traveling westbound through the intersection in lane three when it contacted with its front the left side of vehicle two, a 1991 Chevrolet Beretta 2-door coupe, traveling southbound through the same intersection. After the initial impact, vehicle one rotated counter-clockwise and came to final rest facing southward. Vehicle two, after the initial impact, rotated clockwise and came to final rest facing eastward. Both vehicles were towed due to severe damages and were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a 69-year old male, said he was traveling westbound in the lane nearest the curb and as he was approaching the intersection nothing particular different about the roadway, however, he felt, depressed with a lot on his mind regarding family matters and personal problems that he felt almost in a daze. He said, he was tired, fatigued, and sleepy and thought he closed his eyes for a couple of seconds; life is a bit much right now, he said. His health is just fair and doesn't feel like doing much. So, as he proceeded through the intersection he hit the side of vehicle two coming across his front right. He said his travel speed was approximately 56 kmph (35 mph). He travels on this roadway weekly and has been a licensed driver for over 50-years. He was not injured.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V1 is: “other vehicle encroachment from crossing street turning into opposite direction”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle includes: fatigued, personal problems, and sleepy.

The driver of vehicle two, a 51-year old male, could not be reached for comments. He was transported to the hospital from the scene with non-threatening injuries.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V2 is: “this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection”. The Critical Reason was coded “type of driver error unknown”. There were no associated factors for the driver of this vehicle. He could not be reached for comments.