This three-vehicle collision occurred on a two-way, five-lane road with a two-way center turn lane. The pre-crash roadway for all vehicles was level and bituminous paving with the crash occurring in lane one. The crash occurred on the approach to an intersection controlled with a color signal. The roadway has a speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Ford F-250 pickup, was northbound in the first lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1991 Chevrolet Cavalier and Vehicle three (V3), a 1999 Volkswagen Jetta were stopped in traffic northbound due to a red light. The front of V1 impacted the rear of V2. The front of V2 then impacted the rear of V3. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage and V3 was driven from scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-year-old male, was driving from one job site to another job site. This driver stated he was looking at a person standing on the sidewalk. When he looked forward the cars were stopped and he braked with lock up. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.

The driver of V2, a fifty-nine year old male, was driving to an outdoor show at the time of the crash. This person was to be part of the show. This driver had driven for about thirty-six minutes at the time of the crash. He stated that when he heard the screeching he looked back. V2 was stopped at the time of the crash. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road at an unknown frequency.

The driver of V3, a thirty-eight year old male, was not interviewed. There is no known pre-crash information for this driver.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: external distraction.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.