This three-vehicle crash occurred on a straight, dry, bituminous, three-leg intersection. Westbound traffic is physically divided with two through lanes and one left turn lane. Eastbound traffic is physically divided with one right turn lane and one through lane. North and southbound traffic is not divided and has one lane for southbound, one right turn lane and one left turn lane for northbound. The posted speed limit for all three legs is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1989 Oldsmobile Delta 88 was westbound in the third lane (left turn lane). Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 International 9200 pulling one empty trailer was eastbound in the second lane going straight. Vehicle three (V3), a 2005 Ford F-150 extended cab was stopped northbound in the second lane (left turn lane). V1 was following six to seven vehicles as they were turning and the arrow turned yellow and then off. V1 followed the vehicle in front of her and was impacted on the right side by the front of V2. V1 then rotated clockwise and impacted with its left side to the front of V3. V1 bounced slightly off V3 and came to rest on its wheels facing northwest in lane three, the southbound lane. After the impact, V2 came to rest on its wheels facing eastbound in the through eastbound lane on the east side of the street facing east. V3 was pushed slightly backwards and to the right and came to rest on its wheels facing north. All three vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a seventy-two year old female was running an errand from home to the grocery store and drives this roadway on a weekly basis. It is unknown how long she was driving on this trip. She is retired, has multiple sclerosis and takes Aleve and Atenolol medications on a regular basis. She wears glasses and does not know what prescription she has. She usually goes to sleep at 2230, up a 0300, awake for an hour and back to sleep for an hour. She does not take a nap. This driver was considered fatigued. This driver never looked to check for traffic, but just followed the leading traffic.

The driver of V2, a forty-six year old male was driving an empty trailer from the warehouse to the production plant when the crash occurred. He has been driving heavy trucks for nine years out of the twelve years he has been driving and feels somewhat comfortable driving this vehicle, which he has driven 2-5 times in the last 3 months. He had slept eight hours the night before and felt rested. He walks, plays basketball with his kids three times a week and takes one aspirin and a multi-vitamin everyday. He works an average of 10 to 10 ½ hours a day, with a total of 48 hours a week. He stated a pickup truck just barely made the turn in front of him and feels V1 was following to closely because he did not see her until it was too late.

The driver of V3, a twenty-four year old female, was coming from having lunch at the lake and was bringing her husband back to work. She does not work outside the home and five weeks prior gave birth to her second child. She stated she slept nine hours the night before, which is her normal sleep and felt rested. The only medication she takes is birth control. She works out five days a week by playing tennis with her husband for two hours. She drives this roadway three times a week and feels very comfortable with the vehicle, passengers and cargo. This driver was having a social conversation with her husband at the time of the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.