This crash occurred in the right (east) roadside of a two-lane north/south roadway with one lane in each direction. The bituminous roadway was dry and straight, with a +4% slope to the north. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred early afternoon on a weekday with light traffic flow. It had rained earlier but was not raining at the time of the crash.

V1, a 2000 BMW 540i with one occupant, was northbound in lane one. V1 veered off the road on the right side and struck a pole with its front end. After impact it rolled backward and came to rest approximately 12m to the south in lane one facing north. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1, a 30-year old female, sustained minor injuries as a result of the crash but refused treatment at the scene and was not transported. The driver appeared to be very upset, but not as a result of the accident, according to comments made to police and this researcher she was on her way home from a friend's house traveling at an unknown speed. She said she had just had an argument with her boyfriend at the friend's home and admitted that she was very upset. She claimed that as she was driving northbound a dog ran into the street from the right side of the road. She said she applied her brakes without lockup and veered to the right to try to avoid hitting the dog, but then ran head-on into a pole on off the right side of the road.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road right side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as driver inattention due to a personal problem. The driver admitted being upset by the previous argument at the scene. This researcher does not believe the driver was being truthful about the dog (this researcher was at the scene for over an hour and never saw any kind of animal in the area). The witness cited on the PAR was contacted and despite the fact that she only witnessed post crash events she said she never saw a dog. The driver of V1 also refused numerous attempts by the researcher to complete the interview and obtain a better description of events.