The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a two-way roadway with one lane in each direction. The roadway was dry, straight, level, bituminous roadway with a speed limit of 48kmph (30mph). It was dusk on a weekday evening, and the road was dry and the sky was clear. The traffic flow was congested, with stop-and-go activity.

V1, a 1999 Ford Taurus four door with one occupant, was traveling eastbound. V2, a 1998 Ford Explorer four door with two occupants, was traveling eastbound in front of V1. V3, a 1995 Jeep Grand Cherokee four door with two occupants, was traveling eastbound in front of V2. V2 and V3 were stopped due to traffic when the front of V1 contacted the back of V2, and then causing the front of V2 to contact the back of V3. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Ford Taurus was driven by a 41 year-old male who reported no injuries. He stated that he was going to a local pharmacy when his right foot fell asleep causing him to depress the brake and accelerator pedal at the same time when he was intending to stop. The driver had told police that his foot got caught under the brake pedal and he was unable to depress the brake pedal. This case was coded according to the story told to the police.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as a "performance error - foot got caught under brake pedal". An associated factor was coded as a traffic flow interruption factor in the form of rush hour congestion.

V2, the Ford Explorer was driven by a 40 year-old male who sustained minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. A 12 year-old female occupant reported no injuries. The driver was not licensed but did not receive any citations.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was "Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed". The Critical Reason for the Critical event was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor was coded as a traffic flow interruption factor in the form of rush hour congestion. Other possible associated factors were coded unknown because no interview was obtained.

V3, the Jeep Grand Cherokee was driven by a 44 year-old female who reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. A 13 year-old male occupant reported no injuries. The driver declined to participate in the study.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was "Other, not involved in first event". The Critical Reason for the Critical event was not coded to this vehicle. The possible associated factors were coded unknown.