This three-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The east/west roadway is straight, level, undivided and consists of two lanes in each direction. The speed limit on this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). The north/south roadway is level, straight and divided by a curbed median. The northbound lanes consist of three through lanes. The speed limit on this roadway is 97 kmph (60 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Mercury Sable, was eastbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Ford F350 pickup, was northbound in lane three. Vehicle three (V3), a 2006 Ford F150 pickup, was stopped westbound in lane two. V1 and V2 entered the intersection. The front of V2 struck the right side of V1. V1 rotated clockwise and the back left side struck the front of V3. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-four-year-old female, was traveling with her young niece and nephew. She had just picked them up from school and was on her way to pick up her children from school. This driver was well rested, healthy and comfortable with her vehicle and passengers. She travels this route daily.

The driver of V2, a forty-eight-year-old male, was traveling from a job site to his workplace. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. This driver travels on this roadway daily.

The driver of V3, a twenty-three-year-old male, was traveling from work to his home. He was in good health, well rested and familiar with his vehicle and his route.

The pre-event movement for V1 was coded as "going straight." The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)."

The pre-event movement for V2 was coded as "going straight." The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."

The pre-event movement for V3 was coded as "going straight." The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded as "other; not involved first harmful event." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was "not coded to this vehicle."