This two-vehicle crash occurred on an access-controlled roadway near an entrance ramp. This trafficway is divided by a grass median that slopes down toward the eastbound lanes. The entrance ramp is straight, ice-covered, has a slight downgrade and consists of one lane with shoulders on both sides. The eastbound main lanes in the precrash area are left-curved with a slight upgrade and consist of three lanes with shoulders on both sides. These lanes are straight and wet in the crash area. The speed limit on this roadway is 97 kmph (60 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Suzuki XL7, was eastbound on the entrance ramp, intending to merge onto the main roadway. Vehicle two (V2), was eastbound in lane three of the main lanes. The driver of V1 lost control and V1 rotated counterclockwise and moved to the northeast, entering the main lanes. The driver of V2 realized that V1 was traveling toward him and applied the brakes and steered left. The left side of V1 was struck by the front of V2. V1 rotated clockwise and traveled through the grass median, coming to rest facing east. After the impact with V1, V2 rotated counterclockwise, traveling into the median. V2 rolled over to the right two quarter-turns and then rolled back to the right side (total of three quarter-turns). Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a seventeen-year-old male, was traveling from his home to work. He was healthy and well rested. He was familiar with the vehicle and drives this route weekly. This driver had been driving only one year at the time of the crash. Additionally, this driver stated that he was traveling approximately 89 kmph (55 mph) and accelerating as he prepared to enter the freeway, in spite of the icy road.

The driver of V2, a twenty-five-year-old male, was traveling with a forty-eight-year-old male, from his home to a job site. He was well rested, healthy and comfortable with his vehicle. This driver travels this route daily.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle control loss due to- traveling too fast for conditions. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: too fast for conditions (icy roadway).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment, from entrance to limited access highway. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.