This two-vehicle crash occurred on an undivided, straight, two-lane, four-leg intersection. The northbound road is one way with two lanes of traffic. The east/west road has two lanes and is controlled by a stop sign. The speed limit on the roads is 48 kmph (30 mph) and there were no adverse weather conditions at the time.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Nissan Pathfinder was northbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Chevrolet Cobalt was eastbound in lane one. V1 made a short left turn in the eastbound lane and impacted head-on with V2. After the impact, V1 rotated clockwise and came to rest on its wheels facing west in the eastbound lane. After the impact, V2 rotated counter clockwise and came to rest on its wheels facing southeast in lane one. V1 was not towed due to damage. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a seventeen-year-old female had two other occupants in the vehicle who were talking on their cell phones. This driver had just left her house and was going to the video store. This driver was driving for about one minute at the time of the crash. She was looking down at her speedometer while turning left. This driver indicated that she was a little uncomfortable in this vehicle as her primary vehicle is a Jetta, and she had borrowed this one from her father. She had driven vehicle one about ten times in the last three months, but was still a little uncomfortable with its size. This driver drives this road on a daily basis.

The driver of V2, a twenty-six year old female was bring her grandmother home from a visit to the dentist office. This driver indicated that she had started this trip after the crash time, but had only about ½ block. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.