This four-vehicle crash occurred on the approach to a traffic signal-controlled intersection. The roadway is straight, level and divided by a curbed median. The southbound lanes consist of three through lanes and a left turn lane. The speed limit on this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred at dusk with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Chrysler Town and Country, was southbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Volkswagen Jetta, was southbound in lane one in front of V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 1997 Ford Taurus, was directly in front of V2 and vehicle four (V4), a 2004 Chevrolet Cavalier, was directly in front of V3. V2, V3 and V4 came to a stop for a red traffic signal. The front of V1 struck the back of V2. V2 moved forward and the front struck the back of V3. V3 moved forward and the front struck the back of V4. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-four-year-old male, was traveling from his workplace to a shipping store. He was well rested, healthy and comfortable with his vehicle. He travels this route weekly. This driver stated that the signal was green and he could not understand why the other vehicles stopped.

The driver of V2, a twenty-six-year-old female, was traveling from a pet store to her home. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels on this roadway weekly. This driver stated that the signal was red and she stopped behind V3 and V4.

The driver of V3, a fifty-six-year-old female, was traveling from a store to another store. She was in good health, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She drives this route daily.

The driver of V4 was a fifty-six-year-old female.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; other vehicle stopped." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."

The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded as "other; not involved first harmful event." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was "not coded to this vehicle."