This single vehicle crash occurred on a six-lane, divided, wet, bituminous roadway with standing water. This road is divided with a grass median and has three lanes in either direction. This road is a straight, level bituminous asphalt roadway with a speed limit of 113 kph (70 mph). In the area of the crash, the three lanes reduce down to two lanes. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one, a 2001 Nissan Xterra was westbound in the third lane. Vehicle one was changing lanes to the right when the vehicle hydroplaned on a puddle of rainwater. The driver lost control and went into a clockwise yaw. The driver attempted to regain control of the vehicle but failed. The vehicle made a lane departure to the right then a road departure to the right and went into a ditch and struck an embankment with its left front plane and the left rear plane. The vehicle then re-entered the roadway and came to final rest facing the median with the front half of the vehicle in the first lane. Vehicle one was not towed due to disabling damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 113 kmph for V1.

The driver of vehicle one, a twenty-two year old female was heading from home to school at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about thirty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver indicated she was changing lanes to the right and lost control. This driver and the PAR indicated that this driver was driving at a minimum speed of 113 kph (70 mph). This driver has no health concerns and does not have a job. Fatigue is not considered a factor for this driver. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as “This vehicle control loss due to: poor road conditions [puddle, pot hole, ice, etc] [specify]: puddle of rainwater”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to vehicle one and was coded as “Driver related factor: too fast for conditions: driver was driving too fast for the wet roadway”.