This crash occurred in the northbound lanes of an interstate. There were four lanes of travel; two northbound lanes and two southbound lanes divided by a grass median. The speed was posted at 113 kmph (70 mph). The roadway was straight, dry, level concrete. The weather was clear. It was the end of the week in the early morning.

Vehicle #1, a 2001 Ford Taurus 4-door sedan, was traveling north in lane #1 at a high rate of speed when its front contacted the rear of a 1998 International straight flatbed truck, also traveling in lane 1. The impact locked V1 under the rear of V2. The driver of V2 then maneuvered the two vehicles to the shoulder of the interstate to final rest. The driver of V1 was found to be unconscious and was transported to the local trauma unit. The driver of V2 was not injured in the crash. V1 was towed due to vehicle damage. V2 was drivable and was not towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 33-year-old female who did not speak English and could not be interviewed. The driver's brother and her 15-year-old daughter gave the interview. They stated that the driver had not been feeling good for several days but was not taking any medications at the time of the crash. They also stated that she did not wear corrective lenses. They stated that she had left home and had dropped off the youngest daughter at school and was on her way to work. It was stated that she had a part time job cleaning homes in the area. The brother stated that he feels his sister blacked out before contacting the rear of the truck because she stated that the last thing she remembered was the truck being several hundred feet ahead of her vehicle. He also stated that he feels she may have been trying to call for help because her cell phone was found between her feet on the floor. He also stated the phone was always kept in her purse on the seat next to her.

The driver of V2 was a 50-year-old male who stated he was in good health and taking no medications. He did not wear corrective lenses. He stated that he left his work terminal earlier that morning and was traveling north in lane #1 at the time of the crash. He reported he was traveling about 105 kmph (65 mph) to 113 kmph (70 mph) at the time. He stated he had checked his mirrors and lanes just moments before and everything was clear. He reported that after the crash, he maneuvered the two vehicles over to the shoulder and off the roadway. After stopping, he went back to check on the other driver to find her unconscious. He stated he then called 911.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded other motor vehicle in lane traveling with lower steady speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded type of driver error unknown. Associated factors coded to this vehicle were traveling too fast for conditions, work stress, being upset, and emotional factors. The medical reports did not conclude that the driver blacked out; however, it was reported that while in the hospital, the driver was put under a suicide watch and later transferred to a facility with a psychiatric department. The driver told medical staff (via her brother) that she had been hearing voices telling her to hurt herself. She also claimed to be sad, but didn't know why.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to V2.

The witness to this crash stated that she was traveling in lane #1 just behind V1, traveling at about 113 kmph (70 mph) when V1 accelerated and contacted the truck (V2). She also stated that V1 did not move from side to side or take any avoidance maneuvers. The officer asked this witness on scene if she thought that the driver of V1 looked as if she was doing anything to commit suicide. It was learned from the officer, the hospital personnel, and family members that this driver had a hard time communicating and that this has put much stress on the driver at work and in the community.