The crash occurred in the intersection of a five-lane roadway divided by a curbed grassy median and a four-lane roadway. On the five-lane roadway there were two lanes in each direction with a left turn-only lane next to the median. The roadway was asphalt, straight and level with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The crash occurred mid-afternoon on a weekday while the road was wet and conditions cloudy. Traffic flow was moderate and controlled by on-color traffic signals without pedestrian crossings. The signals were working properly.

V1, a 2006 Ford Fusion four-door with two occupants, was westbound in lane two. V2, a 1999 Chevy Blazer 4 door SUV was eastbound in lane three, the left turn-only lane. A non-contact vehicle was stopped in the left turn-only lane on the opposite side of the intersection from V2, yielding prior to making a left turn. V1 entered the intersection as V2 started to turn left across its path. The front of V1 struck the right side of V2 causing it to yaw and then trip and roll longitudinally to the left. After three quarter turns, V2, sliding on its right side, struck the curb, and tripped one more quarter turn landing upright facing north. It had traveled approximately 18m from impact to final rest during its roll sequence. After impact, V1 rotated clockwise and came to rest facing northeast about 6m from impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Ford Fusion, was driven by a 25-year old male. He and his passenger were both coded for incapacitating injuries and were transported to a hospital. The driver of V1 said that he was on his way home from shopping and was talking with his passenger. He did not know his speed. He added that as he approached the intersection he saw that he had a green light and noticed what he described as a truck ahead of him and to his left in lane three. It was stopped but also had a green light. He added that he did not see anyone turning left. As he entered the intersection the driver saw V2 in the process of making a left turn across his path. The driver added that he did not have time to react or hit his brakes and his vehicle hit V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was other vehicle encroachment from the opposite direction over the left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle. Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 were conversation with his passenger and a sightline restriction - his view was blocked by a non-contact vehicle.

V2, the Chevy Blazer, was driven by a 25-year old female who received non-incapacitating injuries and was transported to the hospital. She stated that she was on her way to a doctor's appointment from work but added that she was not in a hurry. The driver said that when she approached the intersection in lane three she had a green light but not a left turn arrow. She said she looked ahead and could not see anyone coming towards her. She did see vehicle stopped in the opposing left turn lane. The driver said she began to turn and after committing to the turn she suddenly saw V1 headed right towards her. She added that she tried to accelerate to avoid the collision but was unsuccessful. After V1 struck her she said her vehicle rolled over two complete turns.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was this vehicle traveling - turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was an "other" decision error - turned with obstructed view. An associated factor coded to the driver of V2 was inadequate surveillance because she did not really take the time to look for oncoming traffic - she did not stop prior to initiating her turn. Another associated factor coded for V2 was a sightline restriction caused by the non-contact vehicle in the opposing left turn lane.