This collision occurred late n the afternoon of a clear warm day with no apparent adverse weather conditions. The crash took place on a 4- lane divided, concrete roadway, with a -2% grade, with no traffic controls. Both vehicles were traveling west in the second lane. Vehicle one (V )1 had stopped at the intersection with intentions of turning left. Vehicle two (V2) was behind V1 and failed to notice V1 was stopped and struck the rear of V1. V2 was towed from the scene V1 was driven.

V1 was a 2001 Chevrolet Suburban, driven by a 36 year-old female with her two sons as passengers. This driver takes no medication, is nearsighted and was on vacation from her home in Florida. At the time of the crash the driver of V1 was following her father to her brother's home. The driver lived in this city 15 years ago and was visiting her family. The driver of V1 had 9 hours of sleep the night before the crash after driving straight from Florida to here the day before the crash Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was traveling west in the second lane, and had stopped at the intersection for 30 seconds waiting for traffic to go by. During this time the driver was looking around the street to see how much everything had changed since she left. The driver did not hear any braking of V2, and was not looking in her rearview mirror. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle.

V2 was a 2003 Pontiac Sunfire coupe, driven by a 19 year-old pregnant female whose only medication is prenatal vitamins. The driver of V2 had 12 hours of sleep that day of the crash and was well rested at the time of the collision. V2 was traveling west in the second lane behind V1 about 2 blocks behind. About a block from the site of impact the roadway drops to a -2% grade from a rise, giving the westbound drivers plenty of time to evaluate oncoming traffic. The driver of V2 when questioned about her being on the phone started to say yes, and then changed her mind during the interview. It appeared that the driver was talking on her cell phone and not paying attention to the traffic ahead of her, subsequently not seeing V1 until it was too late to make successful speed and or lane change movements. V2 changed lanes and braked, but still struck the rear of V1. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason was coded to V2 as a driver related: inattention. This was due to the driver being on the cell phone at the time of the crash and did not detect V1 in time to prevent the crash.