This crash occurred in a 4-way intersection. The north/south roadway was an undivided bituminous two-lane roadway. The westbound approach was also an undivided bituminous 2-lane roadway. The eastbound approach was 2-way undivided dirt roadway, and was an entrance to a campground. All of the roadways involved were straight, level and dry. The north/south roadway had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The eastbound roadway had no posted speed limit. The westbound approach had a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred in the late afternoon on a weekend and the skies were clear. The traffic flow was moderate and steadily moving.

V1, a 2000 GMC Yukon utility vehicle, was traveling southbound intending to continue going straight through the intersection. V2, a 2001 Ford Expedition utility vehicle, was traveling northbound and intending to make a left at the intersection. When V2 approached the intersection, V2 stopped for a little while waiting for the intersection to clear in order to turn left. A non-contact vehicle traveling southbound stopped at the intersection and waved V2 on to turn left through the intersection. V1 was following behind the non-contact vehicle that stopped. Instead of staying in the one lane of travel and stopping behind the non-contact vehicle, V1 drove on to the shoulder and continued on at its original speed. V2 turned into the direct path of V1, not expecting V1 to be passing on the shoulder. Neither driver had the opportunity to initiate any avoidance maneuvers. V2 came to final rest after rotating counterclockwise and then striking the dirt curb (no additional damage was done to the vehicle by this strike), and V1 came to final rest close to the point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the 2000 GMC Yukon, was driven by a 46-year-old male. He and his passenger reported injuries on scene and were transported to a nearby hospital. The driver insisted that he stayed in his original lane and the driver of V2 hit him in the course of making the left through the intersection. He was down at his nearby vacation home for the weekend and on this trip he was driving his mother to a local antique shop. He said he not in a hurry to get there because the shop closed in an hour and a half and that would be plenty of time to get there and browse. This driver was the owner of a car dealership and took this vehicle off his lot. He has only driven the truck about 6-7 times so far but claimed he felt comfortable operating it because he normally changes the vehicle that he uses. The driver of V1 claimed that he was unable to do anything to avoid this accident because he did not see V2 until it was too late to avoid the collision.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was "Other vehicle encroachment- from opposite direction over left line." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was not coded for this vehicle. The driver of V1 did believe that the intersection would be cleared if he went around the non-contact vehicle on the shoulder at the same speed as before. One associated factor coded to this driver was the illegal act of passing the non-contact vehicle in the shoulder. A scene investigation (confirmed by police) revealed that V1 was on the shoulder at impact, not in his proper lane, as he claimed. Other associated factors include a sightline restriction caused by the non-contact vehicle, inadequate surveillance in that the driver of V1 failed to look ahead before passing on the right, and the driver's inexperience with the vehicle.

V2, the 2001 Ford Expedition, was driven by a 25-year-old male who reported no injuries. The driver was heading back to work after going to the store. He was waiting at the intersection to make a left and a non-contact vehicle stopped and waved for him to make the left. V2 almost completed the turn when he was hit by V1. V1 was driving on the shoulder and V2 did not expect a vehicle to be driving on the shoulder and he did not have time to attempt to avoid the accident.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was "This vehicle traveling-turning left at the intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was coded as a recognition factor- inadequate surveillance. The driver of V2 believed that since the non-contact vehicle was stopping and giving him the right-of-way that the shoulder was clear but it was not. The driver of V2 proceeded through the turn without checking to see if someone was going around the non-contact vehicle in the shoulder lane (an illegal but common action). A sightline restriction caused by the non-contact vehicle was coded as an associated factor.