The crash happened mid-afternoon during daylight hours. The location was a four lane divided (positive barrier, eight lanes overall) downhill roadway. The roadway was curved to the left, road surface dry concrete. The highway split up into an entrance ramp for the northbound extension of the highway (lanes four and three) and into and entry ramp of a west-east highway. (Lanes one to three) The weather was clear and the roads dry.

The only vehicle in this crash, a 2001 Oldsmobile Alero, was driven by a 25 year-old female with three passengers ages five, one & one This vehicle was traveling north in the third lane. The driver intended to stay in this lane entering the entry ramp to the eastbound highway. Before the lanes split and became part of the entry ramp for the northbound lanes, an unidentified pick up truck, traveling in lane two, cut into V 1's lane of travel. The pick up crossed lane three in front of V 1 and entered the northbound entry ramp. The driver of V 1 tried to avoid a collision by steering to the left. The vehicle departed the roadway to the left and onto a paved shoulder. The vehicles front impacted the concrete median located on the entry ramp for the eastbound highway before coming to rest on the shoulder of the northbound lanes of travel. The vehicle was towed from the scene. The driver and the occupants (three children) inside the vehicle were not injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason was coded driver related factor "too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others" ( driver stated unidentified pick-up changed lanes in front of her vehicle to turn onto exit ramp. Driver was on way to work and had three children in her vehicle could have been distraction). The driver believed her vehicle to be in good shape. She bought the vehicle three month prior to the crash as a used vehicle. During the inspection the vehicles tires were found to be low in profile and worn out in an uneven way due to the front wheels being out of alignment. All wheels had low tire pressure despite a tire pressure monitoring system. The front wheels had wrong size tires mounted. The frontal airbags were found missing. The airbag flaps had been manually glued together after the airbags had been cut off instead of being replaced after a previous crash. The vehicle's rather fair technical condition was not a significant factor is this crash, but was noticeable.