The crash occurred in the intersection of two, one-way roadways with one lane of travel. The roadways were straight and level and it was daylight and clear with no adverse conditions. The speed limit was 48kmph (30mph).

V1, a 1993 Lexus LS400 four door with one occupant, was traveling southbound on the one-way roadway with no traffic control devices. V2, a 2005 Ford Crown Victoria four door with one occupant yellow Taxi was traveling westbound on the one-way with a stop sign. At the intersection, the frontal plane of V1 contacted the right plane of V2 as V2 proceeded through the intersection. V1 came to final rest on the sidewalk of the southwest corner. V2 came to final rest in the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Lexus LS400, was driven by a 31 year-old male who did not sustain any injuries. The driver declined to participate in the study and the Lexus LS400 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V1 was coded as: Other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason for the Critical event was not coded to the driver because he had the right of way. An associated factor coded to the driver was a roadway related factor, there was a sightline restriction of V2 caused by the parked vehicle at the northeast corner.

V2, the Ford Crown Victoria, was driven by a 35 year-old male who did not sustain any injuries. He stated that as he was inching up at the stop sign because a parked vehicle was obstructing his view, when he was impacted by V1. The Ford was not towed due to damage.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V2 was coded as: This vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) the intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical event was coded as a Driver related factor: Inadequate surveillance. The associated factor that was coded as a roadway related factor. A parked vehicle that was parked at the northeast corner of the intersection was blocking the sightline to V1. Another associated factor coded to the driver was that he crossed with an obstructed view.