This three-vehicle crash occurred in the evening hours at dusk on a weekday at an urban intersection. The intersection consists of a four lane, two-way, north/south roadway and a two lane, two-way, east/west roadway. The roadways are straight, level, bituminous, and dry at the time of the crash. The intersection is controlled by control signals (on colors) with pedestrian signals. The posted speed limit on the north/south roadway is 56 KMPH (35 MPH), and the limit on the east/west roadway is 48 KMPH (30 MPH). The weather condition at the time was 'cloudy', and the streetlights were on.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Chevrolet Malibu sedan occupied by the driver and one passenger, was southbound in the second lane approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 Chevrolet Lumina minivan occupied by the driver only, was northbound in the first lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 2005 Chevrolet Venture minivan occupied by the driver only, was stopped at the intersection westbound, waiting on the traffic control signal to turn green. V1 entered the intersection and proceeded to initiate a left turn (eastbound) where the front of V2 struck the right side of V1. After the initial impact V1 continued east where the left side struck the left side of V3. V1 came to final rest facing east against V3, which was facing west. V2 came to final rest facing northeast in the intersection, in the first lane. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage. V3 was driven from the scene. The passenger in V1 was transported to a local trauma center. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 46-year-old male drove V1, the Chevrolet Malibu. He was uncooperative at the scene, and again later when a second attempt at an interview was attempted. His passenger, a 48-year-old male, was transported from the scene to a local trauma center for treatment. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a Driver Related Factor, "type of driver error unknown." The driver of V1 refused an alcohol test at the scene.

A 21-year-old male who stated that he was proceeding north thru the intersection when V1 turned right in front of him drove V2, the Chevrolet Lumina. He attempted to brake the vehicle but didn't have enough room and the front of V2 struck V1 in the side. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other Vehicle Encroachment, from opposite direction-over left lane line." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle.

A 55-year-old female who stated that she had stopped at the intersection and was waiting for the light to turn green when she observed V1 attempt to make a left turn right in front of V2 drove V3, the Chevrolet Venture minivan. After the first impact V1 then came into her lane and struck her vehicle in the left side. She stated that she was just sitting there and was 'just in the wrong place at the wrong time.' The Critical Pre-crash Event for V3 was "Other-not involved in first harmful event". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors assigned to this vehicle are Experience- it was her first time driving on this roadway, and Emotional, Work Related Stress. Driver of V3 works extended shifts, approximately 60 hours per week.