This two-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of a four-way intersection on the south/ northbound sides of the roadway. There were two southbound lanes with one eastbound turning lane and two northbound lanes with a westbound turning lane. Curbside parking was permitted on the right side of the north/ southbound travel lanes. There were double yellow lines dividing the north/ southbound lanes. The intersection also included two eastbound and two westbound lanes also divided by double yellow lines. Signalized traffic devices controlled all directions of the intersection. The asphalt roadways were dry and level and there were no adverse weather conditions. The speed limit for all directions of the roadway was 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during the mid afternoon daylight hours. The roadway was free of any defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.

Vehicle one, a 1995 Pontiac Trans Sport, was traveling southbound through the intersection. Vehicle two, a 1993 Volvo 850, traveling northbound intending on turning left at the intersection. As V1 went through the intersection it's front contacted V2's right side. After the initial impact, vehicle one rotated slightly clockwise traveled a couple of feet and came to final rest facing southward. The right front tire axle was slightly bent and the frame restricted the wheel from moving. The police, however, recorded the crash on a non-reportable accident form with no mention of V1's towed status. Vehicle two, after the impact, rotating clockwise traveled a few feet and came to final rest facing southward. Vehicle one was eventually towed from the scene due to disabling damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

The driver of V1, a 62-year old male was interviewed through an interpreter. He said he was traveling southbound in lane two crossing through the intersection on the green light when vehicle two attempting to make a turn in front of him without stopping causing his vehicle to impact the other vehicle. He was certain he had the green light but couldn't say for sure if vehicle two had the green light. He'd left work and was taking his passenger home before going home himself. He slammed on his brakes when he realized V2 turning but it was too late. He admits to talking to his passenger and listening to the radio but said he was not distracted by it. Neither he nor his passenger was injured.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event was coded “other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction - over the left lane line”. The Critical Reason was “not coded to this vehicle”. Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle include: conversing with passenger and listening to the radio.

The driver of V2, a 39-year old female, was unwilling to participate with the study. She only commented, at the scene, that she was not at fault and that she had the green light. In a later brief telephone conversation, she again said she was not at fault. She refused to discuss any additional details about the crash. She was transported to the hospital from the scene with unknown injuries. The police did not record it.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event was coded “this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection”. The Critical Reason was coded “false assumption of other's actions”. There were no associated factors for the driver of this vehicle because of her limited comments and unwillingness to participate with the study.