A two-vehicle midday collision occurred on a Monday. The collision involved a north/south roadway adjacent to a driveway located on the east side. South of the driveway is an intersection controlled by traffic control signals. The north/south roadway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of five lanes. The west/east driveway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of two lanes. The north/south roadway is designated a 56 kmph (35 mph) zone.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1984 Nissan/Datsun 300ZX Turbo with one occupant, was traveling northbound in the number one lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Honda Accord, four-door sedan with one occupant, was exiting the private drive and turning right to go northbound. As V2 entered the roadway, it made a wide turn, the front plane of V2 contacted the rear plane of V1. The right plane of V1 then proceeded to contact the left plane of V2 as both vehicles continued traveling northbound. V1 ran off the east road edge where the front plane struck a utility pole and a small signpost. The vehicle came to rest against the pole facing northeast. V2 came to rest facing northbound in lane one. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Neither driver was injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 a 19-year-old male was traveling home from school. The driver has two years of driving experience, but does not have a license. The driver lifted weights, at a gym, for approximately 1.5 hours the day before the collision. The driver had his right hand on the shifter as he was driving. The driver stated he had passed through the intersection on a green light without slowing. As he passed the driveway, he suddenly felt an impact towards his rear plane. The driver stated it was possible that V2 was making a right turn into the driveway from the northbound number two lane. This driver was unaware of V2 till after impact and attempted no evasive maneuvers.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. A critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle.

The driver of V2 is a 23-year-old male commuting to work from home. The driver stopped at a mini-mart as he traveled to work. On Sunday the driver jogged for approximately 45 minutes. The driver had his right hand on the shifter as he was driving. The vehicle had two types of tire size. The driver stated that he was focused on the traffic that was approaching from the intersection. He was aware that the intersection's light was green and that vehicles would be approaching. The driver did not stop prior to entering the roadway. As he turned right unto the roadway, his intention was to enter the number one lane. He did not see the other vehicle and could not provide information regarding vehicle one's pre-crash movement.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with lower steady speed. A critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e. g. failed to look, looked but did not see). This driver was looking left for oncoming traffic and did not see V1. This driver failed to stop before entering the traffic way.