This crash occurred in the westbound lanes of a 6-lane roadway divided by a raised concrete divider at 1659 hours. There were three westbound lanes. This was a straight, upgrade, bituminous dry roadway with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The time was late afternoon on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was congested, with stop-and-go activity. There were two vehicles involved in the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1991 Nissan Pathfinder extra-cab pickup driven by a 19 year-old male was traveling west in the number one lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Ford Taurus four door driven by a 43 year-old female was stopped, facing east, in the center left turn lane for eastbound traffic. There were several westbound vehicles in the number three and two lanes. These vehicles came to a stop and motioned the driver of V2 to turn and cross in front of them. The driver of V-2 accelerated and attempted to cross the three lanes the front of V2 contacted the left side of V1 The driver of V1 did not see V2 until it was crossing in front of him. He applied the brakes without lockup and steered right to avoid. The impact caused V2 to rotate clockwise and come to rest in the driveway facing southeast. V1 continued forward while rotating clockwise and came to rest in the driveway facing northwest. The vehicles came to rest within 9 meters (29 feet) of each other. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

The critical pre-crash event V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction-over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to both drivers was traffic flow interruption in the form of congestion and vision obstruction due to traffic flow.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded as a driver related decision factor: other decision error (specified as: turned with obstructed view). This driver was motioned to cross between traffic and never observed V1 presence due to the view obstructed by the non-contact vehicles.