This single vehicle crash occurred during daylight hours on a dry roadway that is divided by a depressed grass/gravel/desert flora median. There are two lanes in each direction. The westbound lanes are left-curved and downhill. This roadway is constructed of bituminous asphalt with rumble strips on both sides of the travel lanes and there are bituminous shoulders on both right and left sides. The posted speed limit is 121 kmph (75 mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Cadillac SRX, was westbound in the number two lane. Vehicle one traveled off the left side of the roadway for approximately 60 meters (197 feet). The driver then steered right and the vehicle re-entered the roadway. The vehicle crossed both lanes and exited the roadway on the right side. The driver steered left and the vehicle rotated counterclockwise. The front of vehicle one struck a delineator post and then the vehicle rolled over to the right eight quarter-turns. Vehicle one came to final rest on its wheels facing generally southeast. During the rollover, both the right and left front doors came open. The driver was using the installed lap and shoulder restraint but was partially ejected causing massive head trauma. The driver was pronounced dead at the scene. Vehicle one was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1.

The driver of vehicle one, a seventy-eight-year-old male, was driving from his home to another city 563 kilometers (350 miles) away for a family function. His son was interviewed. The son stated that his father was suffering from severe depression (his wife and his brother had died in the last few months), he had high cholesterol and was taking Lipitor and Zoloft medications for these conditions. The son advised that his father was sleeping irregular hours, sometimes going to bed at 2200 hours and waking at 0400 - 0600 hours. The son also stated that he had spoken to his father the night before the crash after 2100 hours and his father had intended to go to bed at 2200 hours, awake at 0500 hours and leave on this planned trip at about 0600 hours. The son expressed concern about his father's driving and wanted his father to fly but the driver had declined. The son further advised that he thought his father had either had a heart attack or fell asleep. Medical records indicate the driver had a pacemaker.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as a driver related critical non-performance error: sleeping, that is, actually asleep. The vehicle ran off the left side of the roadway at a slight angle, the left side tires ran over the rumble strip and aroused the driver. The vehicle tracked for a few seconds traveling at approximately 137 kmph (85 mph) before the vehicle re-entered the roadway and crossed the travel lanes to the right and departed the right side of the roadway. A witness who was following V1 estimated the speed of vehicle one based on his travel speed. After departing the right side of the road the driver steered to the left and the vehicle subsequently rolled over. Although there were other contributing factors, the hard data indicates a stage of sleep that allowed the driver to negotiate most of the curve before the vehicle ran over the rumble strip and off the left side of the road. It is also highly likely that the cruise control was set prior to the initial roadway departure.