The crash occurred on a rural road that ran east/west, had two lanes and was also two-way. If westbound there was a slight curve left with a radius of 703 meters. The road had no shoulders and the edges of the pavement were beginning to crumble. The road was bordered on the right (north) side by a drainage ditch that also had a small creek running through it. The ditch varied in depth from 0.5m to 2.5m but the side slope into it was generally about -33%. The posted speed limit on the road was 64kph (40mph). Conditions were pre-dawn dark early on a weekday morning with wet roads and intermittent light rain (rain not present at actual time of crash).

Vehicle #1 was a 2006 Volkswagen Jetta that was traveling west on the rural road. The right front tire edged off the right side of the pavement as the vehicle entered the curve left. The vehicle then swerved left in an attempt to correct and crossed the centerline with the left side tires. Vehicle #1 then swerved to its right again and went into a yaw left and departed the right side of the road completely. It then struck a utility pole with its right side and rotated about 180 degrees counterclockwise and came to rest about 10 meters west of the struck pole in the creek facing east. Vehicle #1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

Vehicle #1, was driven by a twenty two year old belted female, whose airbags did not deploy. She was transported to a local trauma center for treatment after being extricated from the vehicle by EMS personnel.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was "this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side". The Critical Reason was coded as "overcompensation". The driver was coded as being fatigued due to recent flu symptoms, lessened sleep and having woken up less than an hour before driving. The roadway was also somewhat unfamiliar to her as she had moved to the area only recently from out of state. Overcompensation and poor directional control were also coded.