This two-vehicle crash occurred in a three-leg, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The east/west roadway is divided, level and straight. The speed limit on this roadway is 89 kmph (55 mph). The intersecting roadway is a one-way ramp on the north side of the east/west roadway. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Buick Park Avenue, was westbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Hyundai Tucson, was stopped eastbound in lane three, waiting to turn left (north). As the vehicles entered the intersection, the front of V1 struck the front of V2. The vehicles rotated and the left side of V1 struck the right side of V2. V1 continued to the northwest and the front struck a traffic signal control box. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-eight-year-old female, was traveling from her home to the university. She has "back problems" and anxiety attacks and takes Celexa, Xanax and Lortab. She was well rested and familiar with her vehicle. This driver drives this route daily. She stated that she was thinking about family problems at the time of the crash. After the crash, she stated that she couldn't remember the details of the crash.

The driver of V2, a twenty-two-year-old female, was traveling from work to her home. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She takes the medication Effexor XR. This driver travels on this roadway daily.

The pre-event movement for V1 was coded as "going straight." The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inattention."

The pre-event movement for V2 was coded as "stopped in traffic lane." The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over right lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."