This crash occurred in the westbound lanes of a two-lane undivided roadway. There was one lane in each direction of the asphalt, straight, level, dry roadway, which had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The crash occurred just after noon on a weekend under cloudy weather conditions. Traffic flow was light.

V1, a1998 Isuzu Trooper with one occupant, was westbound in lane one. V1 went off the right side of the road and then up a steep embankment with a +75% slope where it struck a 15cm diameter tree with its left front (Event 1) and then with its left top (Event 2). V1 then rotated in a clockwise direction as it rolled left one-quarter turn (Event 3) along the sloped embankment. V1 than rolled back right one-quarter turn landing upright facing northeast about 8m from the point of impact. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1, a 17-year old male, sustained minor injuries but refused treatment. He advised that he was on his way to pick up his mother from work and was traveling 64 kmph (40 mph) when he suddenly felt the right side tires go off the right edge of the road. He reported that he did not apply his brakes but instead tried steering to the left. He said his vehicle traveled along the right roadside and up an embankment. From there he said he was not certain of what happened. He recalled rolling over to the left and landing upright.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded traveling too fast for conditions. This researcher feels that the driver was not being honest during his interview due to the presence of his mother. Evidence at the scene show that V1 was about to leave the straight section of road and enter a curve to the right (radius of curvature of 379m). The driver was going too fast causing the vehicle to drift off the roadway and the driver never realized his position. Associated factors assigned to V1 include driver inattention (thought focus unknown) and driver inexperience since he had only been driving six months.