This three-vehicle crash occurred at a signal-controlled 4-legged offset intersection. The southbound approach was level and curved right while the northbound approach curved left, with an uphill 3% slope. The eastbound approach was straight with a downhill 2% slope. All roadways contained curbs, were bituminous and had posted speed limits of 56 kmph (35 mph). Conditions were daylight and clear in the afternoon hours of a weekend.

Vehicle One (V1), a 2001 Toyota Tacoma (four-door, compact pickup) with one occupant, was southbound in lane one. Vehicle Two (V2), a 2004 Mazda 6 wagon, was eastbound in lane 2. Vehicle Three (V3) was a 2002 Oldsmobile Alero was stopped facing north in lane 3 (a designated left turn lane). V2 was stopped at the light with the intention of turning left and traveling north. V2 started to inch forward into the intersection. As V1 came around the right curve in lane 1, V2 was in its path. V1 steered left to try and avoid V2. The front of V2 contacted the right rear of V1. The impact caused V1 to yaw clockwise to the left 7m (22 ft). The left side of V1 contacted the left side of V3. After that collision, V1 traveled 5m (16 feet) to the southwest before rolling one quarter-turn onto its left side and coming to final rest facing southwest in between the two southbound lanes. V2 came to final rest approximately 4m (13 ft) from its initial point of impact. V3 came to final rest in it original travel lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 22 year-old male, was injured in the crash and treated on-scene by EMS. He was on his way to church from his house when the crash occurred. He reported driving at 64 kmph (40 mph) around the right curve. As he entered the intersection, he noticed V2 proceeding forward from the right side street into his lane at a low speed. He stated that his view of the intersecting traffic was obstructed by shrubs on the northwest corner of the intersection. He steered left, but was unable to avoid V2. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling vehicle damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor was the sightline restriction. The shrubbery on the right side of the road caused him to not be able to see V2 until a crash was unavoidable.

The driver of V2, a 45-year-old female was not injured in the crash. She was on her way to go shopping when the crash occurred. She reported being stopped at the red light in lane 2, with the intention of turning left. She thought the red light was getting ready to change to green because she had been waiting for several minutes. She started to "creep" into the intersection, while looking up at the red light. V1 then came from the left and she struck its right side. She claims her view to the left was obstructed by shrubbery and that she never saw V1 coming. She estimated her speed at impact at less that 8 kmph (5 mph). Her vehicle was towed from the scene with front-end damage.

The Critical Pre crash Event for V2 was coded this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as an illegal maneuver. Associated factors include and external distraction as she admitted her attention was focused on the red light, causing her to not realize she had traveled so far into the intersection). She also reported that the shrubs to her left obstructed her view of southbound traffic. She reported to be nearsighted, and was not wearing her glasses at the time of the crash. She only drives this roadway occasionally. She reports taking various medications to treat depression and anxiety disorders that carry side effects of dizziness and drowsiness.

The driver of V3, a 21 year-old male was transported to the hospital with minor injuries. He had the day off from work and was on his way from his father's house to his mother's house for a visit. He had driven 20 miles and was almost there when the crash occurred. He reported being stopped for several minutes in the northbound left turn lane. He had his music turned up high and was looking in his armrest storage bin for an item, when his car was struck on the left side by V1. He stated because his radio was so loud he did not hear the first collision between V1 and V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for V3 was coded other, not involved in first harmful event. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors include an internal distraction and the fact he had his radio turned up high.