This two-vehicle crash occurred shortly after noon during daylight hours. The location was a major arterial at a four-way intersection with traffic signals and crosswalks. All four directions is commercial business with curbside driveways. The roadway was a three lane, undivided, bituminous pavement with a center left turn only lane and two travel lanes for both vehicles approach to the intersection. The north/south roadway was a five lane undivided arterial. The weather was clear and dry and there were no visibility problems. The posted speed limit for westbound traffic was 64 kmph (40 mph). The posted speed limit for eastbound traffic was 56 kmph (35 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Chrysler PT Cruiser with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in the left turn only lane approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1991 Subaru Legacy station wagon with one occupant, was traveling westbound and entered the intersection on a green light. As V1 entered the intersection it turned left across traffic in front of V2. Both vehicles struck head-on. Both vehicles rotated counter-clockwise and stopped. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The driver of V1 was transported to a medical facility with neck and back injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 49 year-old female, was wearing a lap & shoulder belt and the driver airbag deployed during the crash. This driver was not interviewed. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: type of driver error unknown.

The driver of V2, a 39 year-old female, was wearing a lap & shoulder belt and complained of a foot injury, but refused treatment. She later visited a doctor and found she had fractured a bone in her right foot. The driver was well rested and has no medical problems. She was returning from lunch and approximately 3 blocks from her work. She was not in a hurry and was familiar with both the vehicle and the roadway. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction-over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.