This two-vehicle crash occurred in the intersection of a north/south roadway and a shopping center access road on the east side of the north/south roadway. The north/south roadway is divided; the northbound lanes are straight, level and consist of two through lanes and a right lane that is right turn-only for the intersection one-half block north of the crash site. The speed limit for this roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph). The east/west roadway has one eastbound lane and two westbound lanes. The westbound lanes are straight and uphill with one lane for left turns and one lane for right turns. The speed limit for this roadway is 16 kmph (10 mph). This crash happened during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions and the roads were dry.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Jeep Grand Cherokee, was westbound in lane two and stopped at the stop sign, intending to turn left (south). Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Nissan Xterra, was northbound in lane one going straight, intending to turn right at the next intersection. V1 started the turn, entering the northbound lanes. The driver of V2 applied the brakes and steered left, but the front of V2 struck the left side of V1. V1 rotated clockwise and came to rest facing north in lane two. V2 rotated slightly counterclockwise and came to rest facing northwest in lane three. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, an eighteen-year-old male, was driving from a fitness center to his home. He had slept his normal ten hours the night before and felt rested when he woke up to go to the fitness center. He had just left the fitness center after exercising for his usual two-and-one-half hours. He stopped at the stop sign and looking left, he saw V2 in the right lane. He assumed that V2 was turning into the shopping center that he was leaving, rather than the next intersection. He drives this vehicle regularly and this route daily and is comfortable with both.

The driver of V2, a twenty-seven-year-old female, accompanied by her thirty-seven-year-old sister, was traveling from her sister's home to a store. The sister owns the vehicle but the driver was comfortable driving except that she was concerned about the condition of the tires. This driver was well rested at the time of the crash and was conversing with her passenger. She stated that a larger vehicle in front of her obstructed her view.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was not coded to this vehicle.