This rear-end type crash occurred during the early afternoon on a clear day. The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a two-lane, straight, level, and dry bituminous roadway. The posted speed limit is 89 kmph (55 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a white 2006 International Straight truck with only the 28 year-old male driver, was traveling eastbound behind vehicle two. Vehicle two (V2), a black 1999 Mercury Cougar two door hatchback with a 23 year old male driver and one passenger, was traveling eastbound ahead of V1 slowed and stopped to pull to the left side of the road, into a produce stand. V1 driver advised that he did not realize that V2 was stopped. The front of V1 struck the rear of V2. V1 after impact continued forward and the driver pulled to the left side of the roadway to final rest facing east. V1 was not towed and the driver was not injured. V2 was knocked forward and the driver steered to the left off of the roadway to final rest facing east. Both occupants sustained incapacitating injuries and were transported for treatment. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1 and 89 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 advised that V2's brake lights were on for the last 9.7 kilometers (6 miles) and he could not tell when V2 was stopping or slowing. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as: Other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related decision factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed.

The driver of V2 stated that he and his wife were on the way home from shopping. They noticed a fresh produce stand just off the left side of the road and decided to stop. V2 stopped to make a left turn to go across the road to the produce stand. The driver advised he saw V1 in the rearview mirror approaching rapidly. V2 driver attempted to put V2 in first gear and move, but failed. V1 struck the rear of V2. V2 was knocked forward and the driver steered to the left off of the roadway to final rest facing east. V2 driver advised that he knew of no problem with the brake lights of V2. Both occupants sustained incapacitating injuries and were transported for treatment. V2 was towed due to damage. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in the same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.