This two-vehicle intersection collision occurred in the intersection of six-lane road and a two-lane road. The six-lane road has six-lanes on the eastside of the intersection and five lanes on the westside of the intersection. The road has a positive 5% slope when traveling east. Traffic signal devices with pedestrian crossings control the intersection. Posted speed limit is 56 KPH (35 mph) and no adverse weather conditions were present.

Vehicle one, a 1997 Ford F-150 was eastbound in the third lane. Vehicle two, a 2004 Dodge Neon was westbound in the third lane (left turn lane). A non-contact vehicle turned left in front of vehicle two. Vehicle two turned left at the intersection. Vehicle one braked and steered right and the front of vehicle one impacted the rear of vehicle two. Vehicle two rotated and the right side of vehicle two impacted the left side of vehicle three. Both vehicles came to rest in the east side of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a forty-four year old male was on his way to visit his girlfriend after stopping at a grocery store. This driver had just started this trip a few minutes before. This driver was listening to the radio, at the time of the crash. This driver stated that he saw the other vehicle and said to himself 'don't do it' and then vehicle two turned left. This driver said he braked and steered right and still hit vehicle two. This driver was not taking any medication at the time of the crash. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a twenty-four year old male was heading home from the drug store. This driver had been driving for about twelve minutes on this trip. This driver was not on medication. This driver indicated that he saw vehicle one and though he had time to turn left. This driver misjudged the speed of vehicle two. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis. Vehicle two had all four tires either under or over inflated.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as “other vehicle encroachment: from opposite direction- over left lane line". The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as "not coded to this vehicle". The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "this vehicle traveling: turning left at intersection". The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to vehicle two and was coded as "driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed".