This crash occurred in a 4-way signalized intersection. The east/west roadway was divided by a concrete barrier. On the east side of the intersection, there were three lanes eastbound and three lanes westbound. The north/south roadway was divided by a raised curb median. On the south side of the intersection, there were two lanes in each direction. The east/west roadway was straight and bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 80 kmph (50 mph). It was early afternoon on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was slightly congested with stop-and-go traffic activity.

V1, 1997 Nissan Altima 4-door, was traveling westbound in lane 1 intending on continuing straight through the intersection. V2, a 1998 Toyota Corolla 4-door, was traveling north in lane 1. V2 was waiting at the traffic signal with a red light. V2 had one non-contact in front of it and one to its left in the lane next to it. When the light turned green, the two non-contact vehicles proceeded first and then V2 entered the intersection. As V2 was almost completely through the intersection, the front of V2 struck the left rear side of V1. V1 had gone through a red light. Both drivers said that they did not have enough time to avoid the collision. V1 came to rest in its original lane of travel, approximately 5-7 meters west, but facing east. After impact, V2 rotated slightly in a counterclockwise direction but came to rest close to the point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the 1997 Nissan Altima, was driven by a 61-year old male who reported no injuries. The driver was coming from home and planned to spend the afternoon running various errands. He intended to travel straight through the light and go into the upcoming jug handle. The driver admitted that as he approached the intersection he had various things on his mind, nothing in particular, just the things he had to do for the day, such as what he should have for dinner, etc. He claimed that these thoughts were not distracting to him and did not make him unable to pay attention to the road and what was going on. He claimed that he had the green light but did not notice if any of the cars that were on his side of the road were entering the intersection also. He said he never stopped or slowed down when he approached the intersection because he had a green light the whole time and there were no other vehicles in front of him slowing down. The driver of V1 only saw V2 out of the corner of his eye for a split second before the collision and did not have an opportunity to try to avoid the collision.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "Other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to V1; however, some associated factors were coded to the driver. First of all, the driver of V1 was inattentive to the driving task. He was too busy thinking about what he had to do to be completely paying attention to the road and never even slowed down for the red light. Due to the fact that V1 ran a red light, an illegal maneuver was also coded as an associated factor. The driver also suffered from diabetes, hypertension and heart problems, for which he took several medications.

V2, the 1998 Toyota Corolla, was driven by a 60-year-old female who reported no injuries. The driver was leaving her house and returning to work (the driver went home for her hour lunch break to walk her dog). The driver claimed she was not in a hurry because she had 15-20 minutes to get to her job that was only 10 minutes away. The driver approached the intersection and had a non-contact vehicle in front her and one to her left in the next lane. The light was red so she waited for a few seconds. When the light turned green the car in front of her entered the intersection and then she entered. She was almost completely through the intersection when she saw V1 passing through the intersection from her right and did not have the chance to take any avoidance maneuvers.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded "This vehicle traveling-crossing over (passing through) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as inadequate surveillance, because the driver of V2 failed to look to her right as she entered the intersection. Associated factors coded to the driver of V2 include fatigue, because the driver had recently picked up an extra part-time weekend job and had not had a day off in 3 weeks (since she started the new job). The driver also suffered from a thyroid condition and a urinary tract infection, for which she was taking prescription medication.