This two-vehicle collision occurred during late evening hours on a weeknight. The crash occurred at the four-leg intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-wet roadway. The intersection is controlled by tri-light traffic signals, and the speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph) in all directions. The north and south legs of the intersections are straight, level, bituminous three-lane (five lanes overall, divided by a raised median), two-way roadways. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions, and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Chevrolet Aveo 4-door hatchback, was traveling northbound in the third lane, and approaching the intersection with the intention of turning left. Vehicle two (V2), a 1989 Ford Mustang 2-door coupe, was traveling southbound and approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. As V1 turned, the front of V1 impacted the front of V2. Both vehicles deflected southwest to final rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

The 50-year-old male driver of V1 reported that he was in good health and rested at the time of the crash. He reported that the tri-light was in the green phase as he approached the intersection, and that he was looking to his left at his intended turn destination. He stated that he never saw V2 before the impact. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related recognition error, inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

The 18-year-old male driver of V2 reported that he was in good health and rested at the time of the crash. He stated that as he approached the intersection, he saw V1 approaching to turn left, but he assumed that V1 would stop and yield before turning. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over left lane line. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.