This two-vehicle morning crash occurred at the 4-way intersection of two urban arterial roads. The intersection is controlled by tri-light traffic signals and pedestrian signals. Both roadways are paved with bituminous asphalt and have five lanes of travel, two through lanes in each direction divided by a two-way turn lane. Before the intersection, the westbound traffic has a downhill grade of -8%, but the intersection is level in all directions. The speed limit is 48 kmph (30 mph) for both roads. At the time of the crash it was clear and there were no adverse weather conditions, sight restrictions or road defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1988 Chrysler New Yorker 4 door, was westbound in lane two approaching the intersection intending to go straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 1990 Toyota Camry 4 door, was northbound in lane one, stopped at the threshold of the intersection intending to go straight. V2 entered the intersection after the traffic light turned green, and V1 entered against the red light and the front of V1 struck the right side of V2 at the passenger door. The V1 left front bumper corner snagged on the right rear wheel of V2 and V1 was deflected to the right, and V2 spun over 90 degrees coming to rest in the intersection facing southeast. V2 was towed due to damage, but V1 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The V1 driver, a 39-year-old male who reported no injuries, stated to police (per the PAR) that he entered the intersection on a red light. The V1 driver could not be located for an interview. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: illegal maneuver. Attempts to locate the V1 driver for an interview revealed possible evidence of family/relationship problems, but it was unclear if these problems existed before the crash, so those factors were not coded.

The V2 driver, a 43-year old male who reported no injuries, stated that he was stopped at the red light, and entered the intersection when the light turned green. He did not see V1 enter the intersection, and did not attempt any avoidance maneuver. The V2 passenger was transported for possible injuries. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason was not coded to the V2 driver. Associative factors for the V2 driver are family concerns due to a crash that occurred a month before this crash.