This is a two vehicle "T" bone type crash occurred shortly past dawn at the intersection of a two lane , two way, rural, level, dry bituminous roadway, north/south roadway and an east/west roadway. The roadway east of the intersection is two way, two lane, bituminous, controlled by a stop sign. The roadway west of the intersection is two way, dirt and gravel roadway controlled by a stop sign. There are no traffic controls for north/south traffic. The crash occurred during early morning darkness, the weather was clear and the roadways were dry. Posted speed limit 80 kmph (50 mph).There was no lighting at this intersection. The north/south roadway is bounded on the east by an elevated two meter high earthen berm, a dirt road at the top, and a 5.5 meter (18 feet) wide canal. This is a sight restriction for traffic approaching the intersection from the north, south or east.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1990 Lincoln ,4 door Town Car, driven by a male with seven passengers was traveling west on the two lane paved roadway approaching the intersection that was controlled by a stop sign. V1 failed to stop for the stop sign, entered the intersection and struck the right side of vehicle two (V2). V2 was a 1987 Ford Mustang GT driven by a 23 year-old male, who was traveling north. The driver of V2 did not see anything until he reached the intersection, and saw the car lights of V1 a moment before impact. The driver of V2 attempted to steer left but was struck by V1. V1 continued forward and rotated clockwise, exited the roadway edge ,in the northwest quadrant, where it came to final rest in a cultivated field facing generally southeast. V2 rotated clockwise ,then counterclockwise, exited the roadway rolled to it's right and came to final rest west of the roadway in a cultivated field facing generally west. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene. The driver of V2 and one passenger from V1 were transported to a local medical facility. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection, The critical reason for the event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: aggressive driving behavior. The driver of V1 had passed another vehicle just prior to the crash while eluding US Border Patrol agents. The vehicle then failed to stop for a traffic control device that was clearly visible at approach to the intersection.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from a crossing street - across path. The critical reason for the event was not coded to this vehicle.