This single vehicle crash occurred in the late evening of a weekend off the right side of a residential four-lane roadway. The north/south roadway was composed of two lanes in each direction separated by a solid double yellow line. The northbound lanes curved left and the point of impact was located on a hillcrest. The roadway was bituminous and dry with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1995 Nissan Pickup EXE with a single occupant, was northbound in lane one. As the roadway changed from a straight profile, to a curve left profile V1 continued on a straight path, jumped the right curb, and departed the roadway. V1 continued straight, drove across a driveway, and struck a utility pole located 1.4m (4.6ft) off the roadway with its front-right plane. There were 15m (49ft) of tire impressions prior to impact. The front right of V1 struck the utility pole and after impact rotated approximately, 90 degrees counterclockwise before coming to final rest facing east in northbound lanes. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. According to police on scene this utility pole had been contacted several times in the past. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1 fled the scene immediately after impact. According to a neighbor, the driver got out of the truck and into another vehicle that was driving behind him. No further information could be obtained regarding the driver of the vehicle.

When the owner of V1 was contacted he informed this researcher that his vehicle had been stolen the day of the crash, but he did not report it stolen until the next day. He said he parked his truck at a friend's house and did not notice it was stolen until he returned to his friend's house the next morning. He also stated that the person who stole the car went through several red light cameras, in which he received tickets for. He denied several times being the driver or knowing who drove his vehicle.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was an unknown driver error. Since the identity of the driver is not known and an interview could not be obtained there were no known associated factors coded to this vehicle.

*The police on scene informed this researcher that the registered owner of this vehicle had several DWI convictions. Police went to the owner's reported residence after the crash and was unable to locate the owner for questioning.