This two-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of a two lane, two way North/South roadway and a four lane, two way East/West roadway. The North/South roadway is controlled by stop signs; the East/West roadway is a thru street. It was early afternoon on a weekday, and traffic was light. The bituminous roadways were dry at the time of the crash. The urban residential roadways are straight, level, undivided and the roadway markings are all very worn. The weather was clear with scattered clouds. The posted speed limit on both roadways is 48 kmph (30 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Chrysler 300C occupied by the driver only, was northbound in the first lane approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 GMC Envoy SUV occupied by the driver and two passengers, was westbound in the second lane approaching the intersection. A non-motorist pedestrian was walking westbound on the sidewalk north of the westbound roadway, approaching the intersection. V1 stopped at the stop sign, then proceeded north. It crossed the two eastbound lanes, and as it entered the second westbound lane it was struck in the right side by the front of V2. V1 rotated counterclockwise off the initial impact and V2 rotated clockwise, causing the vehicles to side-slap in the intersection. V1 continued west and came to final rest off the north edge of the westbound roadway west of the intersection, facing northwest. V2 continued across the intersection to the northwest corner where it departed the roadway, crossed the sidewalk, and came to final rest in a residential front yard, facing northwest. The pedestrian, who was crossing the North/South roadway at the time of the initial impact of V1 and V2, was struck in the head by a piece of wheel well trim from V2 and fell in the southbound lane, north of the intersection, injuring her knee. The driver of V1, all three occupants of V2, and the pedestrian were all transported to a local trauma center. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Chrysler 300C, was driven by a 70 year old female. She advised that she was coming from her hairdresser and remembered that she stopped for the stop sign. She then proceeded across the intersection, where she was struck by V2. She stated that she couldn't remember just what she was thinking about, just that she was lost in thought. She failed to detect V2 before crossing the intersection.

V2, the GMC Envoy, was driven by a 66-year-old female accompanied by her passengers, a 74 and a 66-year-old female, out on a shopping trip. The driver indicated that she observed V1 approach the intersection and come to a stop. She was in conversation with her passengers at the time, and glanced over at the right front seat passenger. When she returned her eyes to the roadway ahead she realized that V1 had pulled out in front of her and didn't have any time to react, and struck V1.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical reason for the Critical Event is a driver related factor- Inattention (i.e. daydreaming). The driver of V1 couldn't remember looking for approaching traffic at the intersection.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was: other motor vehicle encroachment-from crossing street, across path. The Critical reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. However, associated factors involved were recognition error; the driver failed to look to either side, the driver was looking at the movement/action of a passenger and the driver assumed V1 would let V2 pass before entering the intersection.

There was no critical reason coded to the non-motorist. She was at the wrong place at the wrong time and was struck by flying debris. The officer completing the report indicated the pedestrian had been drinking.