This crash occurred in the evening hours of a weekday in the middle of an urban intersection. The intersection consisted of a north/south two-lane roadway and an eastbound one-way roadway controlled by a properly functioning traffic signal. Both roadways were bituminous, straight, and level with a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). The roadway was wet, as it was raining at the time of the crash.

V1, a 2000 Ford Econoline-150 cargo van with a single occupant, was northbound approaching the intersection where it intended to continue straight. V2, a 2000 Ford Taurus station wagon also with a single occupant, was southbound approaching the same intersection where it also intended to go straight. As V1 entered the intersection a non-contact vehicle turned in front of it from the intersecting street. The driver of V1 swerved left to avoid the NCV into the path of V2. The left front plane of V1 impacted the left front plane of V2. V1 and V2 came to a final rest near the point of impact. V1 was towed due to damage while V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 57 year-old male, reported no injuries. He advised that he was going home after visiting his friend, traveling about 15-20mph when he made the evasive action (steering to the left) to avoid being struck by a vehicle that came from his right side. He successfully avoided the non-contact vehicle, but was unable to avoid hitting V2.

The Critical Pre-Crash event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical event was coded as traveling too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others. Associated factor coded to the driver include his general health (diabetes, five by-pass surgeries and a daily regime of eight different medications). He was also inattentive due to his ongoing divorce with his wife of 35 years. The rain and wet roads were also coded as associated factors.

The driver of V2, a 54 year-old male, was not injured. The driver was not present at the scene of the crash. He had already driven away upon arrival. The driver refused to participate in the study when subsequent attempts to contact him were made.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction- over left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical event was not coded to this driver. The only known associated factors that could be coded to V2 were the rain and wet roads.