This three-vehicle crash (V1/V2/V3) took place in the early evening in the middle of a 4-way intersection. Both of the intersecting streets were two lane undivided roadways. Each street had a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). On this particular night, the weather was clear and the bituminous road surface was dry. Red, yellow and green traffic lights controlled the flow of traffic in all directions. There was also one lane for residential parking on either side of both streets. The sightline for vehicles approaching the intersection from all directions was greatly reduced due to the fact that there were buildings on each of the four corners.

V1, a 1988 Nissan Pathfinder driven by a 40-year old male, was traveling northbound. During the interview the driver explained that he lives not even a full block south of the intersection where the crash occurred. He explained that he had just left his residence and as he was about to enter the intersection he saw a police cruiser entering the intersection from his left, traveling eastbound. He slammed on his brakes with lock-up but it was too late. He stated that there was nothing that he could do to avoid striking the police cruiser. In the researcher-driver interview, this driver stated that the cruiser did not have either its sirens or its lights on, yet in the PAR narrative it was stated that the police vehicle's lights and sirens were on. The PAR's description of this driver's account conflicted with this interview. In the narrative it was stated that he did in fact see and hear the police lights and sirens, but that it was too late to successfully avoid the collision. The driver of V1 was not cited for running a red light nor was he cited for any other illegal maneuvers. The driver of V3 stated that the sirens and lights were on, and also shared the same interpretation as the driver of V1; that the collision was imminent. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 2005 Chevrolet Impala driven by a 31-year old female police officer, was a marked police cruiser and was responding to a police radio dispatch call. V2 was traveling eastbound and upon entering the intersection, was struck on its right side by the front of V1. An interview with this driver could not be obtained. The pre-crash form for this vehicle was coded based on scene evidence, the PAR, and the interviews from both the drivers of vehicles 1 and 3.

V3, a 1991 Toyota Camry driven by a 52-year old male, was at a full stop at a red light on the same street as the police cruiser (V2). V3's direction of travel was westbound and opposite that of V2. In a full interview, this driver explained that he was stopped at a red light and was intending to continue straight when the light turned green. As he sat at the light, he noticed V2 traveling toward him from the across the intersection, lights and sirens on. He explained that from out of nowhere he noticed the headlights of V1 approaching the intersection from his left. He then thought to himself that that there was going to be a bad crash in a matter of seconds. When V1 struck V2, V2 was pushed in a northeasterly direction where it then struck V3. The researcher asked this driver about the traffic light and he stated that it was green for V1 though he noticed it turning yellow at the time of impact between Vehicles 1 and 2. This researcher studied the traffic lights on the day following the crash and they appeared to be functioning properly.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was when it began to cross over (pass through) the intersection. The Critical Reason for Critical Pre-Crash Event was coded as inadequate surveillance. An associated factor coded to this driver was a sightline restriction due to the building on the southwest corner of the intersection that blocked V1's view of V2.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was when another vehicle encroached from a crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason was not coded to V2. Two associated factors coded to the driver of V2 were the fact that she was in a hurry to get to the police call and the sightline restriction caused by the building on the corner.

No Critical Pre-Crash Event and no Critical Reason were coded to V3 because it was not involved in the first harmful event (the impact between V1 and V2). No associated factors were coded to this driver.