This two-vehicle crash occurred at a Y-intersection. All roads coming into the intersection have two-lanes. The main road through the intersection is curved to the left for southbound traffic. The curve has a radius of 375 meters. The speed limit for the road is 40 kmph (25 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric.

Vehicle one, a 1988 Honda Accord was southbound in the first lane. Vehicle two, a 1992 Ford Ranger was westbound in the first lane. As vehicle one crossed over into the northbound lane, the front plane of vehicle two impacted the front plane of vehicle one. Vehicle one came to rest at impact. Vehicle two bounced back a few feet and came to rest facing north. Vehicle one was towed with major damage. Vehicle two was driven from the scene with major damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a twenty-five year old male was test-driving this car. This driver was considering buying this vehicle so it was his first time in the vehicle and his first time on the roadway. This driver has nine years of driving experience however he has never had a driver's license and has never received drivers training. He admitted he was speeding. Vehicle one had under inflated tires. In the PAR this driver stated he was looking at the interior controls as he was driving.

The driver of vehicle two, a thirty-nine year-old male was driving to pick up a friend. This driver had been driving for about five minutes at the time of the crash. This driver has twenty-five years of driving experience. He also doesn't have a driver's license and has never had any driver training. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as "this vehicle traveling: over the lane line on the left side of the travel lane". The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to vehicle one and was coded as "driver related factor: internal distraction". The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane: traveling in opposite direction".