This two-vehicle crash occurred at approximately one hour before noon on a weekend. The location was a five-lane, two-way, undivided arterial city street with multiple business and apartments in the area. The roadway was level bituminous with curbs and sidewalks on both sides. The weather was clear and dry and it was daylight. The posted speed limit for both vehicles was 56 kmph, or 35 mph.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1986 Pontiac Sunbird 4 door sedan, was traveling westbound in the outside curb lane. V1 slowed for traffic ahead, which was stopping at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), an unknown year/make/model hit & run pickup truck traveling eastbound, suddenly turned left in front of V1 to enter an apartment building driveway. The driver of V1 was unable to stop and impacted with the right side of V2. V1 stopped near impact and V2 spun counter-clockwise and struck a phone box located off the roadway just west of the driveway. V2 then drove away westbound, and, V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 43-year-old male, was wearing a lap & shoulder belt. He complained of a hand injury, but was not treated or transported. The driver was well rested, has no medical problems and was familiar with the roadway where the crash occurred. The right front passenger, an 18-year-old female, was wearing a lap & shoulder belt. She complained of chest pain, but was not treated. The right rear passenger, a 66-year-old female, was wearing a lap belt. She had a bloody nose from hitting the back of the right front seat during the crash. She was treated at the scene by an aid unit, but not transported. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction, over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to V1.

V2 was a hit & run vehicle and no information is available to assess the driver or vehicle. The Critical pre-crash event was when V2 failed to yield and turned left across the path of V1 and was coded for V2: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to the driver of V2 as a driver decision factor: turned with obstructed view. This was coded due to V1's report that intervening vehicles, due to the traffic congestion backed up from the traffic light, obstructed his view of V2. The driver of V2 turned in front of V1 without yielding the right of way. It is unknown, but possible that he may have also misjudged the gap distance and speed of V1.