A two-vehicle collision occurred at the 4-leg intersection of two two-lane, two-way, non-divided rural roadways. The intersection is controlled with a stop sign for east and westbound traffic only. The northbound travel lane is straight & level while the eastbound travel lane is uphill & straight approaching the intersection. This crash occurred on a clear sunny weekday afternoon with no adverse atmospheric conditions or sight line restrictions.

Vehicle one (V1), 2002 4-door Hummer H1 open top with two occupants, was traveling north in lane one with the intention of going straight through the intersection. V1 was traveling at or below the posted speed limit for this two-lane state highway, approximately 97 kmph (60 mph). V1 driver observed V2 stop at its stop sign, wait for a forward non-contact northbound vehicle travel through the intersection and then start to cross the intersection. The driver of V1 steered right and accelerated attempting to avoid contact with V2, but V1 was contacted on the left side (event 1). After impact, the driver of V1 deliberately guided the vehicle off the roadway to the right, aware of the vehicle's propensity to roll over. As V1 continued along this path, its front contacted a small diameter breakaway pole in the grass and then continued approximately 70 meters (229.7 feet) north and parallel to the road, before coming to a controlled stop. V1 was subsequently driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle two (V2), a 4-door 1992 Chevy Blazer with one occupant, stopped at the stop sign eastbound in lane one, intending to go straight across the intersection. The driver of V2 waited for a passing non-contact northbound car to clear the intersection, glanced for cross-traffic and saw nothing, then proceeded to cross the intersection. The driver of V2 noticed V1 while in the intersection and unsuccessfully tried to brake to avoid collision. V2's front end contacted V1's left side door. After this lst impact, V2 's hood sprung open and the entire hood swung up and over to the left, impacting V2's own left side. As this occurred, V2 spun counterclockwise 90 degrees and came to final rest facing north in the northeast corner of the intersection. V2 was towed due to disabling damage.

The driver of V1 was a 43-year-old female was not on any medications and was heading home from an errand. She was transported with possible injury, complaining of a stiff neck. V1 also contained a 2-year-old male in a child seat secured in the backseat behind the driver. This left rear position absorbed the worst of the impact, as door was completely punctured by the front right corner of V2. The child suffered no injuries, and was not transported from the scene. V1 contained approximately 68 kg's (150 pounds) of miscellaneous cargo in the passenger compartment and in the rear cargo bed. This amount of cargo did affect precrash handling of stability of the vehicle. There was no critical reason coded to V1. The driver stated she started driving this vehicle about a month ago, and never drove faster than 97 kmph (60 mph) due to high rollover risk, and rough ride which affected handling. This leads to the only associated factor for this driver as being uncomfortable with some aspect of the vehicle.

The driver of V2, a 16-year-old male whose only medication is the antibiotic Minocycline, lives very close to the scene. He stopped at the stop sign and waited for the car he saw coming on the cross street. He is used to turning right at this junction to go to work, and almost started to go right. He then paused and reminded himself that today he needed to go straight to his Grandfather's house and mow the lawn. He was thinking about this chore, as well as leaving for vacation the next day. Driver has only been licensed for 5 months, and had taken a basic driver education course the previous summer. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 is: This vehicle traveling: Crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason is coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). Associated factors include: inattention (thinking about a future event), and the driver of V2 was also inexperienced.