A three vehicle rear-end crash occurred heading east on a two-way city street with two lanes of travel. The road is paved with bituminous asphalt, and has an uphill grade of +7% heading east. The posted speed limit for the road is 48 kmph (30 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday evening about 2 hours before sunset.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Volvo V40 station wagon, was traveling east on the roadway going straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 GMC Sierra pickup, was stopped facing east behind vehicle three. Vehicle three (V3), a 1995 Honda Accord sedan, was stopped in front of V2 with only 1.2-meters (four feet) of space between V2 and V3. V3 had come to a stop because vehicles ahead of V3 were stopped for an unknown reason. There were no traffic controls for this direction of travel, but there was an intersecting side street a short distance forward from where the crash occurred that may have been related to why the forward traffic stopped. V1 did not stop in time and its front impacted with the rear of V2, pushing V2 into V3. The driver of V3 was transported to the hospital due to injury, and V3 was towed. V1 was towed due to disabling damage, but V2 was driven from the crash scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 40-year-old female who was the only occupant in her vehicle. The vehicle was a loaner vehicle while her vehicle was in the shop being repaired. The driver claimed it was the same make and model as her personal vehicle. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event was assigned to this driver as a driver recognition factor: inattention (daydreaming). The driver stated that this is her normal commute route home from work, and she simply didn't notice that V2 had stopped. The driver of V1 had trouble identifying the brake lights on V2, but pointed out that the angle of the sun lights the rear lenses on the truck. The researcher verified this fact. Although the brake lights may have been obscured by sunglare, an attentive driver would have noticed that V2 had come to an abrupt stop. The driver of V1 also stated that she had a bit of road hypnosis, this being the same route that she travels every day when commuting to work.

The driver of V2 was a 57-year-old male who was the only occupant in the vehicle, was on his way to a meeting from his house. He had been driving for about one hour when the crash occurred and it was the first time he had driven this route. The driver of V2 stated that when V3 stopped, he "cut it short". This only left a few feet of space between V2 and V3, and indicated that V2 stopped quickly. The driver of V2 stated that once he came to a stop, he was able to look in his rear view mirror and watch V1 crash into the rear of his truck. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V3 was a 26-year-old female who was traveling with three additional passengers. She was on an errand giving her friend and her friend's children a ride to their house. V3 was not involved in the first harmful event, but its pre-event movement was coded: stopped in traffic lane.