This is a two-vehicle crash that occurred shortly after the noon hour in the southbound lanes of a five-lane roadway at an intersection with a two-lane roadway. There were two northbound and two southbound lanes with a center turn lane. There were no traffic controls for north-south traffic. The two-way intersecting roadway was controlled by a stop sign. All roadways were bituminous. There was a <+ 2% upgrade for southbound traffic. The posted speed limit for north-south traffic was 64 kmph (40 mph) and the posted speed limit for the east-west roadway was 40 kmph (25 mph). The roadway was dry and the weather was clear. There was medium to heavy traffic flow at the time.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Ford Expedition 4-door utility vehicle, driven by a 34-year old male that was injured during the crash. He stated that he driving from work to go to lunch. He stated he was traveling about 64 kmph (40 mph) in the number two-lane going south approaching the intersection on his right. Vehicle two (V2), was a 2003 Dodge 1500 Quad-cab four door pickup, driven by a 77-year old female with two passengers. V2 was eastbound in the number one-lane and was stopped at a stop sign for more than 10 seconds. The driver of V1 stated that he saw V2 accelerate from the stop sign and turn left in front of him as he was entering the intersection. He stated that he applied the brakes without lockup at about the same time he collided with the left side of V2. The impact to V2 was behind the cab on the left rear wheel. The impact caused V2 to rotate counterclockwise and stop facing northwest, partially in the turn lane and partially in the number two northbound lane. The impact caused V1 to rotate counterclockwise immediately and rollover on the roadway. V1 overturned a total of 4-quarter turns coming to final rest on the wheels, in the center turn lane, facing north. The driver of V1 was not using the installed restraints. V1 was equipped with two front airbags that did deploy during the crash. The vehicles were within 6 meters (18 feet) of each other at final rest. V1 was towed due to damage. The driver of V2 advised that she was stopped at the stop sign for more than 10 seconds waiting for traffic to clear. She stated that she saw V1 approaching from the left but misjudged both the speed and the distance. She thought she had enough time to go forward and make a left turn and was struck in the left side by V1. She did not make any evasive attempts. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded to V2 as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed. The driver of V2 stated that she saw the approaching V1 but thought she had enough time to make the turn.