This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The southbound roadway entering the intersection is two-way, uphill, and straight and consists of one through lane in each direction and a left-turn-only lane. The speed limit for this roadway is 40 kmph (25 mph). The westbound roadway entering the intersection is two, level, straight and consists of two through lanes in each direction and a left-turn-only lane. The speed limit for this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1991 Chevrolet G-20 van, was southbound, stopped on the north side of the intersection at a red light in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1986 Chevrolet Monte Carlo, was westbound in lane one, traveling straight through the intersection. V1 proceeded straight through the intersection. Neither driver made any avoidance maneuvers and the front of V2 struck the left side of V1. V1 rotated clockwise and V2 rotated counterclockwise. The left side of V1 struck the right side of V2 in a side slap. V1 came to rest facing southwest in lane two of the westbound traffic on the west side of the intersection. V2 came to rest facing southwest in the middle of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-year-old male, was driving from home to a job site he was not familiar with. He stated that he thought the light changed to green and was starting from a stopped position. He claimed that he was not in a hurry, was not familiar with the roadway and was thinking about the best route to the job site. He also reported work-related stress and he often works extended shifts. This driver stated that he is somewhat uncomfortable driving this vehicle as he is concerned about the brakes, tires, engine and wiring. He reported that he gets ten hours of sleep a night normally and still wakes up fatigued, however he claimed that he felt fine at the start of his trip.

The driver of V2, a twenty-two-year-old male, was driving from his home to take his dog to the groomer. He had been driving just three minutes at the time of the crash and was not in a hurry. He was well rested and familiar with his vehicle and his route. This driver saw vehicle one but assumed the driver of V1 would yield the right-of-way. He attempted no avoidance maneuver.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: illegal maneuver.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.