A three-vehicle collision occurred on a Wednesday night. The collision occurred on the northbound lanes of a north/south interstate highway. The highway is dry, level, concrete, and consists of five lanes. The number five lane is a high occupancy vehicle (HOV) lane distinguished by double yellow lines. West of the west edge is a concrete center divider that separates the northbound and southbound lanes of the highway. East of the east edge is an on-ramp unto the highway. The on-ramp is dry, concrete, and has an upgrade slope. The on-ramp consists of two lanes, but becomes one lane as it approaches the highway. East of the east edge exists a sound wall. The on-ramp is controlled by a tri-light signal that regulates the flow of traffic onto the highway. A warning sign is located at the gore point formed by the on-ramp and the highway. The warning sign informs drivers of the merging on-ramp traffic. The highway is designated a 104 kmph (65 mph) zone. Traffic was congested in the first several lanes.

Vehicle one (V1) is a 2000 Honda Odyssey mini-van that was traveling north on the on-ramp. Vehicle two (V2) is a 2005 Toyota Corolla four-door sedan, traveling northbound in the number one lane of the highway. Vehicle three (V3) is a 2003 Honda Civic natural gas hybrid four-door sedan, traveling north in the number five lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.

As V1 was entering lane one via the on-ramp, its front plane contacted the rear plane of V2. V1 traveled unto the east shoulder impacting a sound wall with its front plane. V2 rotated counter-clockwise as it traveled across all lanes. The front plane of V3 then contacted the front plane of V2. V3 then contacted the raised concrete divider with its left plane. V1 came to rest facing north on the east shoulder against the sound wall. V2 came to rest facing southwest blocking the number four lane. V3 came to rest facing northbound in the number five lane. V1 was towed with moderate damage. V2 was towed with major damage. V3 was towed with major damage.

The driver of V1 is a 61-year-old female driver traveling home from church. The driver was the only occupant. The driver had only been driving for approximately five minutes. The driver has 37 years of driving experience, but no formal driver training. The driver stated that she was stopped approximately one to two seconds at the on-ramp's tri-light before entering the highway. The driver stated that traffic abruptly stopped as she proceeded forward.

The driver of V2 is a 30-year-old female traveling with a 50-year-old passenger. The driver was en route to an airport shuttle location. The driver had approximately 30 minutes to get to her destination. The driver was listening to the radio as she was traveling. She has seven years of driving experience. The driver stated that she was stopped due to congestion for about one to two seconds prior to the impact. She detected V1 just prior to impact thru the rear view mirror.

The driver of V3 is a 40-year-old male commuting home from work. The driver refused to discuss his use of medications. Medical records indicated that the driver has high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and is HIV positive. The medical records also listed the following medications: Nevirapine, Ziagen, Imodium, Trazadone, Lunesta, fish oil supplements,Sudafed, Flonase, and Lipivir. The driver stated that he could not see V2 approaching due to the traffic on his right. He saw V2 only when it entered his lane.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e. g., failed to look, looked but did not see). The driver failed to look far enough ahead as she merged into lane one. She failed to detect V2 that was stopped in time to avoid the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. A critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. A critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle.