This single vehicle crash occurred during the night in an undeveloped open desert area on sand and gravel roadways within city limits. The crash occurred at the intersection of a two-way gravel road and a concrete canal 11.6 meters (38 feet) wide, and about 3 meters (10.5 feet) deep. A bridge crosses the canal at the point of intersection with the gravel road. The canal was full with running water near the upper edge. The canal is bordered on both sides by compacted sand roadways. There were no traffic controls or posted speed limit for either roadway. There were no posted speed limits, it is considered to be whatever is reasonable and prudent. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one, a 1997 Chevrolet C1500 pickup, was eastbound on the gravel road approaching the intersection with the canal road. The driver turned left onto the canal road on the west side of the canal. Vehicle one rotated counterclockwise, rolled four quarter-turns and came to rest on the wheels in the canal. The vehicle sank and was totally submerged. A male passenger in the right front seat was restrained and remained inside the vehicle. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1.

The driver of vehicle one, a nineteen year-old male, was found walking on a paved roadway north of the crash scene by a motorist and was taken home. He was taken to a local hospital later the same morning. The male told a police officer that he was driving vehicle one and had a twenty year-old male passenger. This driver was comfortable with his vehicle even though he had just purchased it two-to-three weeks prior to the crash. He was not familiar with the roadway he was driving on at the time of the crash. The driver stated that they had been four-wheeling in the desert near the crash site during the night and he thought they had been involved in a crash. He stated that he had not seen his friend since. He stated that he and his friend had consumed several beers during the night. The police officer went to the area described by the driver and located vehicle one in the canal. The vehicle was removed from the canal later the same day and was towed due to damage.

The pre-event movement for vehicle one was coded as "turning left." The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as "this vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as "driver related factor: too fast for curve/turn."