This single-vehicle crash occurred in the early afternoon of a weekday on an exit ramp off of a six-lane highway. The east/west highway consisted of three lanes in each direction divided by a concrete barrier wall flanked by paved shoulders and similar barrier walls. An additional lane merged out of the westbound traffic that turned into an exit ramp. The highway was fully controlled with exit ramps several miles apart. The bituminous highway was dry and level. The highway curved to the right in the westbound direction, but straightened out in the area where the crash occurred. The highway featured a posted speed limit of 80 kmph (50mph), while the exit ramp featured a cautionary speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Acura Integra, was negotiating the curve as it traveled west in lane two. As the road straightened out the driver of V1 lost control as she over-steered while attempting to change lanes into the off ramp lane to exit the highway. V1 departed the roadway and struck the concrete barrier with its front. V1 continued forward for several meters scraping against the concrete barrier while rotating slightly clockwise before coming to final rest facing north. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1.

The driver of V1, a 25-year old female, was transported for treatment of non-incapacitating injuries. It was her first time on this highway and she was following her uncle because she did not know the directions to her dentist's office (her intended destination). She stated she was traveling in lane two when a van entered the lane between her and her uncle's vehicle. As the van changed out of her lane she saw her uncle take the exit. She steered right to exit and lost control of her vehicle. She departed the roadway and struck the concrete wall. She stated that she had been a license driver for less than a year and was not a very good driver, adding she has a lot to learn. She told this researcher that she feels frightened when driving on major highways and prefers smaller, less congested roadways.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason was coded as a driver related error, poor directional control. Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle include an exterior factor; she was focused on her uncle's vehicle ahead of her. Her inexperience and unfamiliarity with the roadway as well as her general discomfort with highways were also coded as associated factors.