This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-leg intersection. The north/south roadway is undivided, two-lane, straight and downhill for the northbound approach to the intersection. This roadway is controlled by a stop sign. The east/west roadway is divided. The westbound lanes are left-curved, downhill and consist of two through lanes and a left turn lane. The speed limit for these roadways is 89 kmph (55 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Ford Taurus, was stopped northbound at the stop sign. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Mack gravel truck, was eastbound in lane two. The driver of V1 attempted to cross the intersection. The driver of V2 noticed V1 entering the intersection and applied the brakes, skidding into the intersection. The front of V2 struck the right side of V1. V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest west of the intersection in the eastbound lanes. V2 continued westbound, rotated counterclockwise and rolled over onto its right side, spilling its load of gravel on the westbound lanes. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-one-year-old female, was traveling with a twelve-year-old female, from her father's house to a gas station. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. This driver stated that she was focused on a non-contact vehicle that was making a U-turn in the intersection and did not see V2 prior to the crash. A drug test indicated this driver had ingested opiates.

The driver of V2, a twenty-four-year-old male, was not interviewed. No information is available for this driver.

The pre-event movement for V1 was coded as "stopped in traffic lane." The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; external distraction."

The pre-event movement for V2 was coded as "negotiating a curve." The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.