This crash occurred in the mid-morning of a weekend in an urban four-way intersection. The intersection consisted of a five-lane, two-way undivided north/south roadway and a four-lane, two-way undivided east/west roadway controlled by a properly functioning traffic signal. The bituminous north/south roadway featured two lanes in each direction with a middle lane serving a designated left turn lane and a posted speed limit of 56kmph (35 mph). The bituminous east/west roadway featured two lanes in each direction and a posted speed limit of 72kmph (45 mph). All roadways were dry, straight, and level. The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1989 Chevrolet pick-up, was northbound in lane two pulling a trailer that was loaded with a race vehicle. V2, a 1979 Chevrolet Pick-up, was eastbound in lane two approaching the intersection. V3, a 1997 Pontiac Grand Prix, was stopped at the intersection facing south in lane three (the designated left turn lane). As V1 approached the intersection it began decelerating but suddenly sped back up and entered the intersection. V1 swerved to avoid an eastbound non-contact vehicle, but could not V2 as it crossed over the intersection. The front of V2 struck the left side of V1. This impact caused both vehicles to rotate counter-clockwise. V2's right side then contacted the trailer connected to V1. This impact, combined with the rotation of V1 caused the trailer linkage to break and the trailer came to final rest alongside V2 in the northeast corner of the intersection. V1 continued its rotation until it struck the left side of V3 with its front. Both vehicles came to final rest at the point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a belted 23 year-old male that stated he is in good health and on his way to work where he planned to work on vehicle he was hauling. He also stated he dose not wear corrective lenses. The driver stated that he was slowing for the traffic light when he thought it turned green. He stated that he released the brake and entered the intersection. The driver stated he braked and steered right to avoid a non-contact vehicle. He also claimed he did not see V2 until he was hit on the left side. Neither the driver nor the passenger in the right front seat were transported but V1 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason was coded as a driver related factor, an internal distraction the driver was talking to his passenger and not focusing on the driving task. The associated factors for V2 include inattention, as the driver was thinking about an upcoming race. An illegal maneuver was coded as the driver failed to stop for a traffic control device. The driver also stated he took his eyes off the road to look back several times at the cargo on the trailer as it was not chained down. The driver also indicated that he was uncomfortable with cargo load as it was his first time pulling it with this truck.

V2 was driven by a belted 55 year-old male who is in good health on his way home from a bakery. He stated he was just starting to accelerate in lane two when he noted a vehicle northbound entering the intersection. He stated he thought the vehicle would yield the right of way but did not stop. He does not remember steering or braking before his vehicle contacted the left side of V1. The driver of V2 was not injured but V2 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factor coded to V2 was a false assumption, as the driver assumed that V1 would yield the right of way. The driver of V2 is not believed to have contributed to this crash.

V3 was driven by a belted 44 year-old male in good health who was on his way to meet a relative. He stated he was stopped in the left turn lane waiting for the traffic light to turn green. He did not see the initial crash because he was putting a CD into the CD player. He claimed he could only sit and watch V1 as it came towards his vehicle. The driver was uninjured and V3 was driven from the scene.

The Critical Precrash Event for V3 was coded as other, not involved in first harmful event. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There are no associated factors coded to V3 and the driver was not thought to have contributed to the crash.