A three vehicle daytime rear-end collision occurred in lane two of a three-lane arterial road heading south. The road has three lanes of travel paved with bituminous asphalt and is straight and downhill (-6%) in the area of the crash. The speed limit for the road is 64 kmph (40 mph). . At the time of the crash the sky was clear and there were no adverse conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1989 Ford Econoline Van with only a driver, was traveling south in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Honda Civic coupe with only a driver, was heading south in lane two. Vehicle three (V3), a 2000 GMC medium Truck with a driver and two passengers, was heading south in lane two. A small sports car was inching out from lane one (a bus only lane) into lane two, blocking traffic. V3 stopped in lane two, and V2 stopped behind V3. V1 did not stop, but skidded into the rear of V2, pushing V2 into V3. V2 was struck on the right rear side, causing it to rotate counter-clockwise, coming to rest facing southeast straddling lanes two and three. V1 rotated counter-clockwise, coming to rest facing southeast straddling lanes one and two. V1 and V2 were towed due to disabling damage, and V3 was driven from the scene. The driver of V3 was transported due to possible injury. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 64-year old male familiar with the road drove V1. The driver of V1 stated that he entered the road about 0.8 kilometer (0.5 mile) up from the crash, and was looking to change to the third lane when the crash occurred. He had been checking the third lane, and when he turned his attention forward again, the crash was imminent. The driver steered slightly to the right and braked.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event assigned to this driver is a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). Traffic flow interruption was a factor. The driver was attentive to the driving task, trying to change lanes to the left.

The driver of V2 was a 30-year-old female. This driver refused a complete interview, but gave a brief description of the crash on-scene. It was unknown the distance between V2 and V3, but multiple accounts verify that V2 was stopped before the collision. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle.

A 20-year-old male who refused to be interviewed for this study drove V3. One of the passengers in V3 gave a description of how the crash occurred, stating that V3 had stopped because a non-involved vehicle was pulling into lane two, and was blocking traffic to let another vehicle exit the road.

V3 was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.