This two-vehicle collision occurred during evening hours on a weekend. It was dark at the time, and the crash scene was illuminated by street lamps. The crash occurred at the four-leg intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway. The speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph) for eastbound and westbound traffic. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light traffic signal. The north-south roadway is a six-lane, two-way, undivided, straight, level, bituminous roadway. The north/south roadway is two lanes and is undivided. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse atmospheric conditions and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Chevrolet Blazer compact SUV, was traveling eastbound in the second lane, approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Toyota Tundra four-door pickup, was stopped at the intersection facing westbound, and waiting to turn left into southbound traffic. As V2 made its turn, the front of V1 impacted the right side of V2. V2 rotated clockwise and departed the road over the southeast corner, where the right side of V2 contacted a tree, and its back plane contacted a pedestrian signal pole, bringing V2 to rest. V1 came to rest in the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 24-year-old male driver of V1 reported that the tri-light was in the green phase as he approached the intersection. He stated that bright lights momentarily blinded him as he entered the intersection. He saw V2 turning and applied the brakes, but was unable to avoid the collision. He also stated that a friend of his has recently died, and he has been drinking alcohol more then usual, including four beers the day of the crash. Police indicate the driver had a measured BAC of 0.189. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction over left lane line. The critical reason for the crash was not attributed to V1.

The 28-year-old male driver of V2 was traveling with three passengers, and they were conversing in the vehicle as they waited to turn. The radio was playing in the vehicle. V2's driver stated that the tri-light was in the yellow phase as he waited to turn, and as it changed to the red phase, other eastbound traffic stopped. He saw V1 approaching, and assumed that it would stop as well, so he executed the left turn. When he realized that V1 was not stopping, he unsuccessfully tried to avoid the collision by accelerating. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V2 and was coded a driver-related decision error: false assumption of other's actions.