The crash occurred in an intersection where a two-lane north/southbound roadway intersected with a one-lane eastbound roadway. Each roadway was physically undivided and had posted speed limits of 40 kmph (25 mph). Both roadways had bituminous surfaces that were dry and their profiles were straight and level. It was a cloudy afternoon on a weekday and traffic was very light. There was a large delivery truck parked on the southwest corner that restricted the views of both east and northbound traffic as it entered the intersection. The intersection was controlled by a stop sign for eastbound traffic only.

V1, a 2007 Chevrolet Impala with two occupants, was traveling eastbound in lane one of the eastbound roadway. V2, a 2004 Chrysler Sebring with driver as only occupant, was traveling northbound in lane one of the north/southbound roadway. V2 proceeded through the intersection from the south and was struck on its left front side by the right front of V1, which had entered the intersection from the west. Upon impact V2 rotated slightly in a clockwise direction and came to its final rest. V1 was able to back-up out of the intersection after the impact. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

V1, the 2007 Chevrolet Impala was driven by a 32-year old male who declined to participate in the survey. Within thirty-minutes after the crash occurred narcotics officers arrived on-scene to take V1 driver into custody for outstanding felony warrants. V1 occupant also declined to participate in the study. It remains unknown if V1 driver stopped for the stop sign though it is known that V1 driver was aware that the delivery truck obscured his view of the intersection to the south. No one in V1 reported any injuries.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was, this vehicle traveling, crossing over/passing through an intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was view obstructed by other vehicles. Associated driver related factors coded to V1 were: crossing with an obstructed view and having a restricted sightline due to the delivery truck that was parked on the southwest corner. No associated vehicle factors were coded to V2.

V2, the 2004 Chrysler Sebring was driven by a 45-year old female. V2 driver explained that immediately after the crash V1 driver stated to V2 driver that he hadn't seen V2 because of the delivery truck. V2 driver was very familiar with this roadway and knew that crossing traffic was required to stop. V2 driver also acknowledged that she could not see the east leg of the intersection due to the delivery truck but that she knew that she had the right of way. She stated that she had slowed down and proceeded with caution even though she had no traffic signals controlling her movement. V2 driver explained that a vehicle crossed her path and she then continued into the intersection and was struck by V1. V2 driver stated, "I didn't even see him until he hit." (my vehicle) When the medic unit arrived on-scene, V2 driver stated that she was okay but within one and one-half hours following the crash, V2 driver was transported from the scene to an emergency room by a relative. V2 driver received minor bruising and suffered a very bad headache.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was, other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated driver related factors coded to V1 were: crossing with an obstructed view, having a restricted sightline due to the delivery truck that was parked on the southwest corner, and inadequate surveillance.