This single-vehicle crash occurred around dawn on a four-lane, median divided, level, bituminous roadway. Vehicle one (V1) was eastbound in lane one negotiating a curve. Through the curve, there is a 3 ft. (1 meter) wide asphalt shoulder with a rumble strip. However, where the vehicle initially left the roadway, in the immediate vicinity of an intersection, there was no strip. There was a drop off of 5-8 cm (2-3 inches) between the improved asphalt shoulder and the sod roadside. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash and the road surface was dry. The speed limit is 105 kmph (65 mph).

V1, a 1996 Toyota Camry, with two occupants, was traveling eastbound in lane one negotiating the left hand curve. The driver fell asleep, as the vehicle was about to exit the curve. The right side tires of the vehicle departed the paved surface on the right at a slight angle, the driver awoke, steered left, the vehicle initiated a counter clockwise rotation as it re-entered the roadway. The vehicle crossed the two eastbound traffic lanes as it continued to rotate counterclockwise. The vehicle departed the west road edge where the front of the vehicle struck an embankment before the vehicle rolled right about its longitudinal axis 8 quarter turns before coming to rest on its wheels, facing west partially in lane two. The driver and passenger were transported. The vehicle was towed Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1.

V1 contained a 20 year-old female driver and a 23 year-old male passenger. The driver stated that she was very tired and fell asleep. The passenger advised that they had been out very late partying and he had to be at work at 0700 hours. The driver had slept 3.5 hours earlier at a friend's house and awoke a half hour before the crash occurred. She was taking her boy friend home from a friend's house and had driven approximately 10 miles. She is familiar with the vehicle and drives the route weekly. She was fatigued and stated she was drowsy when she initiated the trip. The driver takes Adderal, Xanax and Lortab.

The critical pre-crash event was coded as: This vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded as: Driver related factor, critical non-performance error, sleeping. The driver's fatigue, combination of drugs and the overcompensation were also present in this crash. The interface between the paved surface and the sod roadside and the lack of any super elevation in the curve were probably contributing factors.