This two-vehicle collision occurred in an intersection with a traffic control signal and pedestrian signals in all directions. The main road has four-lanes and is straight. The pre-crash roadway for northbound traffic has a 6% uphill grade. The intersecting road is two-lanes. There is a posted speed limit of 56 kph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one, a 2002 Dodge Intrepid was northbound in the second lane with the intention to turn left at the intersection. Vehicle two, a 1997 Volkswagen Jetta was southbound in the second lane. Vehicle one turned left and the front of vehicle one impacted the front of vehicle two. Vehicle two caught on fire following the crash. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a thirty-five year old female was not interviewed. Per medical records this driver is taking Lexapro and an unspecified Birth control pill.

The driver of vehicle two, a thirty-four year old male was heading to work from home at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about thirty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that he did see the other vehicle as he approached the intersection but did not think anything of it until she turned. This driver said he braked but was too close to stop. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as “this vehicle traveling: turning left at intersection”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to vehicle one and was coded as “driver related factor: type of driver error unknown”. The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “other motor vehicle encroachment: from opposite direction - over left lane line”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “not coded to this vehicle”.