This two-vehicle collision occurred at the intersection of a two-way four-lane road and a two-way side street. The intersection is only controlled by stop signs for the side street. Both roads are straight, level and paved with bituminous asphalt. The speed limit for the main road is 56 kph (35 mph). At the time of the crash the sky was overcast but there was no precipitation.

Vehicle one, a 1997 Ford F150 was southbound on the in the first lane. Vehicle two, a 1998 Ford Taurus was northbound in the second lane. Vehicle one turned left from the first lane at the intersection and the front of vehicle two impacted the right side of vehicle one. Vehicle one rotated clockwise and the left rear tire impacted a curb and then the left side impacted a stop sign. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a forty-three year old male refused to be interviewed or take any part in this study. At the scene the local police processed him for DUI. According to witnesses on the scene, vehicle one was driving at a high speed and aggressively changing lanes and swerving around traffic. When vehicle one turned left from the first lane, the body of the pickup rolled so severely that the witness thought the pickup would rollover. After the crash a number of passengers hopped out of the truck, moved some beer cans and bottles from the bed of the pickup and ran away from the scene.

The driver of vehicle two, an eighty-six year old female refused to be interviewed under the advice of her lawyer. A witness stated that vehicle two was driving down the road at normal traffic speed of 56 kph (35 mph) and that vehicle two did not appear to brake before the collision.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as “this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to this vehicle and was coded as “driver related factor, illegal maneuver”. The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “other vehicle encroachment: from opposite direction- over left lane line”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “not coded to this vehicle”.