The crash occurred in the parking lane on the southern side of a two-lane east/westbound street that had a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). There was a single travel lane in each direction, east or west, as well as a parking lane along the north and south curbs. This bituminous residential street was straight and had a very slight downhill slope but was considered to be level. The crash occurred on a clear, early weekday morning. Traffic at crash time was extremely light and the road surface was dry and free from any obvious defects.

V1, a 2000 Volvo 70 series four-door station wagon was traveling eastbound in lane one. V2, a 2004 Nissan Maxima four door was legally parked in the westbound parking lane and was facing west. V3, a 1999 Ford Windstar was parked directly behind V2 in the westbound parking lane and also facing west. V1 was approaching an intersection that was controlled by standard traffic lights on all corners and intended to proceed through the intersection. Another unknown vehicle disregarded a red light and in an attempt to avoid a collision, V1 driver applied full brakes engaging the anti-lock braking system, and steered left losing control of the vehicle. As V1 continued through the intersection with its ABS engaged it crossed into the westbound travel lane. V1 then entered the westbound parking lane where the front of V1 struck the front of V2 with enough momentum that V2 was pushed backwards in an eastwardly direction where the rear of V2 struck the front of V3. All three vehicles were disabled due to damage and were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the 2000 Volvo was driven by a 21-year old female and was not carrying any passengers. Upon the researcher's arrival, V1 driver had already been transported to an emergency room for evaluation. V1's mother had come to the crash scene and explained to the researcher what had happened. V1's mother stated that V1 driver was on her way back home after dropping her mother off at work. As explained to the mother by her daughter during a phone call immediately following the crash, V1 driver stated that she had approached an intersection and had the green light when another vehicle ran a red light and crossed her path. V1 driver attempted to avoid this other vehicle, and in doing so lost control of V1. Contact information was exchanged between the mother of V1 driver, and the mother advised that she would have her daughter contact the researcher to provide more specifics about the details of the crash events. A number of attempts were later made to contact the driver and it was concluded that she did not want to participate in this driver's survey. The following details were learned from the surrogate driver's survey: V1 driver works five hours per day at a night job. The driver sleeps approximately two, four-hour periods per day; when the driver finished her night job she would go to sleep and wake up to drive her mother to work during the workweek. She would then return home and sleep for another four to five hours and later go to her job. The driver was very familiar with this route as she drove it almost every day of the week. She also had 3 years of driving experience and had taken paid driver's education. She was not fatigued.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver related factor - “type of driver error unknown”. It was learned that V1 driver had a cell phone but it was not known if she was engaged in any non-driving activities at the time of the crash. No associated vehicle related factors were coded to V1. Associated driver related factors coded to V1 driver were a change in sleep patterns: V1 driver slept for two four-hour periods during the workweek but would sleep for longer periods during the weekend. Though the mother of the driver advised that her daughter was rested, it was questionable about how rested one can be with such a sleep pattern.

V2 and V3 were both parked vehicles, therefore no Critical Precrash Event or Critical Reason were coded to these vehicles.