This four-vehicle crash occurred on a weekday on a wet, physically divided, bituminous, nine-lane, right curve highway. Westbound traffic consists of four through lanes and one exit lane while eastbound traffic consists of four through lanes. It was late rush hour on a weekday and it was raining at the time. Traffic flow was congested with vehicles slowing down for the wet roads.

Vehicle one (V1), a Hit and Run silver hatchback was westbound, negotiating a right curve in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a four-door 1999 Dodge Durango with one occupant, was westbound, negotiating a right curve in lane four. Vehicle three (V3), a four-door 2002 Kia Rio with one occupant, was westbound, negotiating a right curve in lane four in front of V2. Vehicle four (V4), a four-door 2005 Acura MDX was westbound, negotiating a right curve in lane four in front of V3. V1 either tried to change lanes or hydroplaned into lane four and impacted V2 on the right side. V1 then cut in front of V2 and entered lane five and left the scene. V2 continued in lane four and impacted V3 in the back with its front. V3 was pushed forward and impacted V4 in the back with its front. Vehicles two, three and four came to rest in lane five on their wheels facing west. V1 and V3 were driven from the scene, V3 and V4 was towed. The driver of V3 was transported to a local trauma center; there were no other injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1 and 97 kmph for V2.

V1 fled the scene and was identified as a silver hatchback. The driver or vehicle was never located. The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the left side of the travel lane." The Critical Pre-Crash Reason was coded "unknown reason for critical event

A 23 year-old female was driving V2 and was the only person in the vehicle. She suffers from migraines, two times a week and claims she does not take anything for them. She said she does not drive when she has migraines. She takes Percocet on a regular basis and wears glasses for nearsightedness'. She had slept nine hours and fifteen minutes the night before and feels rested when she wakes up. She had worked that day and was heading home when the crash happened. The Researcher called several times to complete the review with her, without any response. The Critical Pre-Crash Event for vehicle two was "Other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane (same direction) - over right lane line." The Critical Pre-Crash Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was not coded to the vehicle.

A 21 year-old female was driving vehicle three and was the only person in the vehicle. The Researcher had gotten permission to talk to the driver from the insurance company and left several messages for her, without any response. The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V3 was "Other, not involved in first harmful event." The Critical Pre-Crash Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was not coded to this vehicle.

V4 was driven from the scene. The Critical Pre-Crash Event and Reason were not coded for V4.