This two vehicle crash occurred shortly afternoon during daylight hours. The location was a four-way intersection with stop signs for all roadways. The area is urban residential with some commercial business. The roadway was two lane, two way, undivided level bituminous for both vehicles with a concrete center pad in the intersection. There was road construction the southeast corner of the intersection, which did not contribute to this crash. The weather was clear and dry. It was daylight with no visibility problems. The posted speed limit for north-south traffic is 56 kph/35-mph and for east west traffic 48 kph/30-mph.

Vehicle one, a 2000 Toyota Tacoma 4X2 Xtracab pickup, driven by a 25 year-old female was traveling southbound approaching the intersection. Vehicle one entered the intersection without stopping for the stop sign and struck the right side of vehicle two. On impact vehicle one continued southbound and came to rest in its original travel lane in the middle of the intersection facing southwest. There were no pre-crash skid marks. Vehicle one was towed due to damage. Vehicle two, a 2000 Ford Contour SE sedan, driven by a 22 year-old female with three passengers was traveling westbound entering the intersection. As vehicle two crossed the intersection vehicle one struck the right side of the vehicle. On impact vehicle two continued westbound to the northwest corner of the intersection and came to rest with the front of the vehicle in a ditch. Vehicle two was towed due to damage. The driver of vehicle one, told police she was distracted by her stereo system and failed to stop for the stop sign. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical event for V1 was coded - this vehicle traveling crossing over passing through intersection. Critical reason for the critical event driver related factor "inattention".

The critical event for V2 was coded - other vehicle encroachment from crossing street across path. Critical reason not coded to this vehicle.