The crash occurred on the westbound lanes of a 6-lane interstate highway divided by a concrete barrier. There were three lanes in each direction with shoulders on each side and rumble strips on each shoulder. The asphalt roadway was straight, level, and dry. Weather conditions were clear and dry. The crash occurred on a weekday morning at the end of rush hour. Traffic was moderate. The posted speed limit was 89 kmph (55 mph).

V1, a 1998 GMC Jimmy sport utility vehicle was westbound in lane 1 towing a small U-Haul trailer that was secured to V1 on a trailer hitch with 3 backup chains for added safety. V1 was occupied by three occupants and two pet dogs in cages. According to the driver, V1 was traveling at either 50 or 55 mph. The towed trailer began fishtailing, causing the driver to lose control. V1 veered onto the right shoulder without striking the guardrail and then back to the left. Both the vehicle and the trailer yawed in a counterclockwise direction across all three lanes while still attached to each other. The trailer jackknifed with the back of the trailer striking the left back corner of V1. The jackknife appears to have occurred at approximately the same time that V1 ran into the median concrete barrier with its front right. This could be verified due to a sharp bend in the yaw marks at the impact points. V1 came to rest facing eastbound near the median barrier with the trailer straddled across the inside shoulder and lane 3. V1 and the trailer had both been moved prior to researcher's arrival but V1 was still at the scene. No one in V1 was injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

V1 was driven by a 37-year old female. She and her occupants were in the process of moving from one state to another and had been sleeping in the vehicle. When questioned, the driver said she was traveling about 89 kmph (55 mph) but later changed it to 80 kmph (50 mph). The driver said that when, for an unknown reason, the trailer started fishtailing behind her, she tried to slow down by hitting the brakes without lock-up and steering in both directions to regain control. The vehicle went onto the right shoulder and then to the left across the three lanes before it struck the concrete barrier. The driver could not tell when the trailer jackknifed during the loss of control.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle lost control due to a jackknife event. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver related error of traveling too fast for conditions (towing the trailer). There was an advisory warning on the trailer stating that the trailer should not be pulled at a speed exceeding 45 mph. One associated factor coded to the driver of V1 was fatigue - the driver admitted sleeping in the vehicle earlier for just a few hours during a long cross-country trip and that she was trying to stay alert by taking caffeine pills. Other associated factors were a work-related back injury that caused her discomfort and stiffness, poor directional control, this being the first time she had driven on this roadway, and not being comfortable towing the trailer in a vehicle that she had owned for less than a month.