This two-vehicle crash occurred on a weekday afternoon on a north/south roadway with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). This roadway had nine travel lanes in total. The three outermost lanes on either side were considered to be local lanes because they provided access to the intersecting local streets. The six inner lanes were considered express lanes with three lanes for northbound travel and the remaining three for southbound travel. These four sets of three travel lanes were divided by grassy medians each with a curbed edge on either side. This crash occurred in lane 2 of the local northbound travel lanes. The weather was clear; the asphalt surface dry and free of defects, and this stretch of road was level and straight.

Vehicle 1 (V1), a 1996 Infiniti I30 driven by a 40-year old female, was traveling in lane 2 behind Vehicle 2 (V2). V2, a Dodge Ram 2500 cargo van driven by a 48-year old male, was traveling in lane 2 in front of V1. Both vehicles approached an intersection when the overhead traffic lights turned from green to yellow, and then to red. During a complete on-scene interview with the driver of V2, he explained that when the traffic light turned to yellow he immediately applied his brakes and came to a complete and controlled stop. He reported that he knows that this roadway is especially dangerous and that he takes extra care when he travels it. He then heard tires screeching from behind his vehicle and at that time his van was struck in its rear by the front of V1. This driver stated that he was headed from work to a scheduled dental appointment but was not in a rush. He also stated that while he is not afraid to drive on this roadway, he finds it to be somewhat stressful. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 explained that she was driving from her residence to a friend's house and was very familiar with this roadway. When asked what it was that had happened she replied, "My stupidity" (verbatim). When asked to elaborate, this driver explained that she had assumed that the driver of V2 was not going to stop for the changing traffic lights. She remembers deciding that she would "run the light" (verbatim). She immediately applied full throttle and at the same time saw the brake lights on V2 light up. She stated that she knew at that very second that she had made an enormous error and that all she could do was apply her foot activated brakes. She further stated that she was following too closely and knew at that point that a collision with the rear of V2 was imminent. V1 then struck the rear of V2 and both vehicles traveled only a few feet to their final rest. V1 sustained disabling damage to its front and was towed from the scene. V2 sustained minor damage to its rear and was fully operational.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was other motor vehicle stopped in lane. The Critical Reason for Critical Pre-Crash Event was a false assumption of other road users actions. A number of associated factors were coded to the driver of V1: following too closely, false assumption in that she assumed that V2 would run the changing traffic light, and aggressive driving behavior because she was tailgating and intended to ignore a traffic control devices. This driver acknowledged that she occasionally drives aggressively for unknown reasons, and admitted that she enjoys driving fast.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason for Critical Pre-Crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to this driver.

Emergency medical services were dispatched to the scene. The driver of V1 was transported to an emergency room with non-incapacitating injuries. The driver of V2 sustained no injuries.