This two-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of a three-point intersection. The roadways were asphalt, dry, and level and there were no noted defects. There were a total of five lanes of travel for westbound traffic with one lane for left turns southbound. There were five lanes for eastbound traffic. There was one wide lane for southbound traffic. Sometimes vehicles double up creating two lanes. The posted speed limit for all directions was 40 kmph (25 mph). There were signalized traffic devices controlling all directions of traffic. The crash occurred on a weekday in the early afternoon hours. The traffic flow was normal for this roadway.

Vehicle one, a 1997 Dodge Intrepid, was traveling westbound in lane one when it crossed through the intersection and contacted with its front the front of vehicle two, a 2001 Ford Crown Victoria, traveling southbound in lane one. Vehicle one, after the initial impact, rotated clockwise while traveling completely through the intersection where it came to final rest facing eastward. Vehicle two attempting to avoid the impact steered right rotated clockwise and came to final rest several feet from the impact area also facing eastward. Both vehicles came to rest on the east side of the roadway. Both vehicles were towed due to severe damages. However, police, recorded the crash on a non-reportable accident form. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

The driver of vehicle one driver, a 35-year old female, could not be reached for comment, although, several attempts were made. Vehicle two had considerably more damage then vehicle one. The indication is vehicle one was traveling faster then vehicle two therefore the aggressive vehicle. There were no witnesses on scene to suggest which driver ran the light.

The 'Critical Pre-Crash Event' coded to V1 is: crossing over (passing through) intersection. The 'Critical Reason' for V1 is: Illegal maneuver, a decision error, running the signalized traffic device on the wrong signal. There were no associated factors. The driver could not be reached for an interview. However, there was illegal maneuver: failed to stop at a controlled traffic device.

The driver of Vehicle two, a 26-year old male, said she was driving southbound when as she began to pass through the intersection was struck by vehicle one. He said he steered right trying to avoid the crash, however, there was no use. Vehicle one was traveling too fast and she ran the red light. The light was green consistently for several seconds prior to him approaching the intersection. He said his travel speed was roughly 40 kmph (25 mph). He's familiar with the roadway, he travels on it daily.

The 'Critical Pre-Crash Event" coded to V2 is: other motor vehicle encroachment: from crossing street, across path. The 'Critical Reason' was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associated factors for this driver.