This two-vehicle crash occurred on a weekday afternoon in a four-way intersection of a north/south and an east/west roadway. Both streets had a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). Each street also had two lanes for travel in either direction allowing for one lane of travel in all four directions. The north/southbound street was physically undivided and double-yellow painted lane lines marked the travel lanes. Stop signs controlled the flow of the north and southbound traffic of this intersection. The east/westbound street was also physically undivided but the lanes on this street were not marked with paint. Additionally, east and westbound traffic flowed freely through this intersection, as there were no stop signs or any traffic control devices present for these two travel lanes. The weather was clear, the asphalt surfaces were dry and free of defects, and both streets were level and straight.

Vehicle 1 (V1), a 1997 Plymouth Breeze driven by a 26-year old male, was traveling eastbound in lane 1. Upon arrival at the crash scene, V1 was still at final rest and the driver had already been rushed to an emergency room due to an approximately 15.2 cm - 18.3 cm. (6-8 inches) cut that he received on the top of his head. A number of attempts to contact this driver were made including voice messages and a visit to the driver's residence in hopes that more details of the crash events could be learned. (A letter was left in driver's mail-slot after there wasn't an answer at the door.) Unfortunately the driver did not wish to participate in this crash causation survey as no phone calls were returned, or reply to the letter was received. According to the police narrative, this driver stated that the second vehicle pulled out in front of him and V1 then struck this second vehicle. V1 sustained heavy front-end damage and the physical evidence suggested that the driver of V1 attempted to steer to the left in an avoidance maneuver. There was no evidence that the driver of V1 applied his brakes. There were no occupants in V1. This driver was not required to stop before proceeding through the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle 2 (V2), a 2002 Cadillac Deville was driven by a 64-year-old male and was traveling northbound in lane 1 of the north/southbound street. The driver of this vehicle was present, was very shaken up, and was sitting in the passenger's side of his son's vehicle. (The driver's son had been called to the scene to help his father.) The son was insistent that his father not speak or be spoken to, but accepted a business card and a letter requesting an interview and stated that he would be certain that his father would get the information and perhaps participate in the survey. A period of two weeks passed and researcher attempted to contact this driver but was only able to get in touch with his wife on two occasions. She was unwilling to participate in a surrogate interview though she did state that the handicap license tag on her husband's vehicle was not for any handicap that affects her husband's ability to operate a motor vehicle. It soon became evident that the driver of V2 was not interested in taking part in this study. According to the police narrative, the driver stated that he stopped at the stop sign as was required, and then proceeded into the intersection where V1 was struck on its left side by the front of V1. After V2 was struck by V1, it retained enough momentum to continue in a northeasterly direction and strike the curb of the northeast corner. V2 then traveled up a grassy lawn and came to its final rest after just coming into contact with some well-manicured bushes that surrounded a house. The lawn had a positive slope of 15.6% and as V2 drove up this incline it struck the ground with its undercarriage causing a large section of grass to be uprooted. The impact with the curb, the ground, and the bushes account for events numbered 2, 3, and 4 respectively. (Event 1 was the initial impact with V1.) Without an interview it is unknown if this driver was familiar with this intersection or if he knew that east and westbound traffic was not required to stop before passing through the intersection.

Also worthy of noting was that a number of local residents had come out to the intersection to see what had happened. While the researcher was taking scene measurements the resident who owned the property where V2 had come to its final rest approached him and explained that many accidents take place in this intersection. He stated that a number of residents had made (and were in the process of continuing to make) repeated requests to the local municipality that this intersection be controlled by stop signs for all four directions of travel. This property owner produced a calendar to show how he had been keeping track of the number of crashes that do occur at this intersection.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V1 was: Other motor vehicle in lane/Crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Category and Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event were not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to the driver of V1 was: operating a motor vehicle with a suspended driver's license. Associated factors coded to V1 were: low tire pressure on both the front and rear right side tires as well as very worn tire tread on at least the front right tire of this vehicle.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V2 was: This vehicle traveling/Crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Category and Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V2 were: Driver related factor/Unknown decision error. No associated factors were coded to V2 or its driver.