This crash occurred in the morning of a weekday in the middle of a four-way signal-controlled intersection. The intersection consisted of a five-lane divided north/south highway (three northbound, 2 southbound lanes) and a three lane undivided east/west roadway. All roadways were bituminous, dry, straight, and level. Traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 2004 Chevy Trail Blazer was eastbound approaching the intersection where he intended to go straight. V2 a 1998 Ford Escort was northbound in lane two approaching the same intersection where it also intended to go straight. After stopping briefly, V1 proceeded into the intersection even though the light was red. As V2 passed through the intersection it struck the right side of V1 with its front. The force of the impact redirected V1 over the northeast corner of the intersection where it came to final rest. V1 came to final rest in the intersection near the point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

V1 was driven by a 30-year-old male who was on his way back home after dropping his son off at day care. He stated that he stopped briefly before entering the intersection and driving into the crossover. He thought it was clear to proceed through although he vision was partially obscured by another vehicle in the roadway. V1 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through), intersection. The Critical Reason was coded as a driver related factor, illegal maneuver as the driver rolled through a traffic signal. Inadequate surveillance was coded as an associated factor as the driver failed to look to his side.

V2 driven by a 26-year-old female who after numerous attempts could not be located for an interview. V2 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no known associated factors coded to V2 but the driver was not thought to have contributed to the crash.