This five-car crash occurred at the intersection of a five-lane road and a four-lane road. North of the intersection, the road is curved to the left for southbound traffic with a radius of 107 meters (352 feet). The intersecting road has four-lanes on the east side and two lanes on the west. South of the intersection, the road is straight and level. The speed limit is 48 kmph (30 mph) for the north and southbound lanes and 40 kmph (25 mph) for the east and westbound lanes. All lanes are controlled by functioning traffic signals w/ pedestrian signals. This crash occurred during nighttime hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Honda Accord was traveling southbound in lane two of the roadway approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), an unknown year Chevrolet Monte Carlo was stopped at the traffic light in lane one of the southbound lanes. Upon approaching the traffic light V1 encroached into lane one and with the vehicle's right side sideswiped V2's left side. Vehicle three (V3), a 1998 Grand AM was stopped in the third lane of the northbound roadway waiting to make a left turn. Vehicle four (V4), a 2003 Lincoln Navigator was in lane two and was also stopped at the light intending to continue northbound. The front of V1 impacted the front of V3 causing the vehicle to move backwards and the rear of V3 contacted the front of vehicle five (V5), a 2004 Volkswagen Jetta. After crashing into V3, V1 continued on and with the front of the vehicle contacted the left front corner of V4. V1, V3 and V4 were all towed due to significant damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-year old male was not interviewed. Medical records indicate that this driver had a BAC of 0.117. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on right side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded as: type of driver error unknown.

The driver of V2, a twenty-three year old male was not interviewed. There is no known pre-crash information for this driver. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane [same direction] - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V3, a twenty-nine year old female was stopped at the light waiting to turn. This driver had just picked up a friend and was heading to another friends house. This driver was talking to the passengers and listening to the radio at the time of the crash. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis. V3 was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.