A two-vehicle daytime collision occurred at the intersection of a city street and a driveway. The city street is paved with concrete and has five lanes of travel, two in each direction with a center turn lane. The roadway runs east/west with the driveway intersecting on the south side of the street. The driveway is paved with asphalt and has two lanes of travel. The speed limit is 48 kmph (30 mph) for the street. At the time of the crash the sky was cloudy and there were no adverse conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Hyundai Tucson with a driver and two passengers, was coming out of a commercial drive facing north to turn left at the intersecting roadway. Vehicle two (V2), a 1989 Honda Civic sedan with a driver and passenger, was headed east in lane two. V1 had stopped at the stop sign then proceeded to turn left onto the city street. V2 swerved into the on coming lanes to try and avoid the collision, but the front right corner of V1 hit the right side V2. Both vehicles came to rest adjacent to the impact location, and then pulled into a parking lot. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 29-year-old female who reported no injuries from the crash. Driver refused to be interviewed or take part in the study. The driver of V2 saw V1 stopped before the vehicle entered the roadway. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: Other; leaving a driveway, turning left. The critical reason for the critical event is coded: Driver related factor-type of driver error unknown.

The driver of V2 was a 29-year old male who reported no injuries. He stated that he had seen V1 coming out of the parking lot turning left. He said that he was able to brake and steer to the left into on coming lanes but was unable to avoid the collision. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: Other Vehicle Encroachment-from driveway, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.