The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a six-lane highway divided by a grass median. At the location of the crash, there was a four-way intersection with a pre-timed traffic signal. From the west, there was a 4-lane roadway and from the east, there was an entrance roadway for a strip mall. The main thoroughfare for north and south traffic was a straight, level roadway with a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). The intersecting road from the west had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph) and the mall entrance roadway did not have a posted speed limit. The traffic signal that controls the intersection was not functioning properly and was flashing for all directions - yellow for north/south traffic and red for east/west traffic. It was early afternoon on a weekday, the road was dry, and it was cloudy. Traffic was continuous for north and south traffic but the east and west traffic was stop-and-go when the intersection was clear.

V1, a 2004 Ford F150 with one occupant, was traveling north in lane two. V2, a 1994 Toyota Celica with one occupant, was stopped in lane one headed west. V3, a 2002 Nissan Pathfinder with one occupant, was traveling east in lane one. V1 and V3 entered the intersection at the same time and the front of V3 struck the left side of V1. Following this initial impact, V1 spun into the left side of V2. V2 was pushed off the roadway and struck a traffic post with its front. V1 and V2 came to final rest off the road in the northeast corner of the intersection. V3 came to final rest in the intersection facing south. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1 and 89 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 37-year old male who was returning home for lunch today when he was involved in this crash. As he was driving north (55 mph) toward this 4-way intersection, he noticed the traffic signal for his direction was flashing yellow. He continued to drive at the same pace and noticed two vehicles from the west enter the intersection and turn left (north) after hesitating to see if the intersection clear. Once he entered the intersection, he saw a third vehicle (V3) coming from the west that did not pause or turn left but instead drove straight toward him. He said he had "half a second" to react so he gritted his teeth and braced for the impact. The vehicle (V3) coming from the west struck the driver side of his truck and caused his truck to skid on its two right side tires. He continued to skid northeast into a car (V2) that was stopped at the intersection and finally came to rest on the northbound shoulder. He suffered a neck sprain and was treated and released from a local trauma center.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factor coded to this driver was the malfunctioning traffic signal.

V2 was driven by a 47-year old male who was returning home from grocery shopping when he was involved in this crash. This driver was stopped at this intersection with a flashing red signal, waiting for traffic to clear before he could proceed straight across the intersection. While waiting at the intersection, an eastbound Pathfinder sped across the intersection and stuck a northbound Ford truck. Following that collision, the Ford spun into this driver's direction and struck his Toyota Celica. The force of the collision pushed his Celica off the right side of the road and into a traffic pole. This driver was not injured in the crash but his car was towed from the scene.

V2 was not involved in the first harmful event; therefore, no Critical Pre-crash Event or Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. The only associated factor coded to this driver was the malfunctioning traffic signal.

V3 was driven by a 74-year old retired female who was stopped at this intersection with a blinking signal for more than 5 minutes before she decided to enter the intersection. She said that two vehicles ahead of her had entered the intersection and she followed behind them. The vehicle ahead of her turned left at the intersection but she continued straight across and struck the left side V1. She said she never saw V1 but that she never looked in that direction either. She assumed the intersection was clear because the vehicles ahead of her proceeded before her. She was not injured in the crash but her Nissan was towed from the scene.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V3 was this vehicle crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was inadequate surveillance, a driver related factor. The malfunctioning traffic signal was coded as an associated factor.