This two-vehicle mid-afternoon daylight hour crash occurred within a T-intersection on a 2-way, five-lane, urban roadway consisting of two through lanes in each direction and a 2-way center turn lane. The intersecting road is 2-way, and consists of one lane in each direction. Both roads were dry, are straight, level, bituminous, without traffic controls, and have a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). At the time of the crash the sky was clear and there were no sight restrictions or road defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1965 Ford Mustang 2-door driven by a 16 year-old male with one passenger entered the roadway from the driveway of a convenience store and was traveling eastbound in the number two lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Dodge Dakota 4x4 pickup, driven by a 55 year-old male was traveling eastbound at approximately 32 kmph (20 mph) in the number one lane approaching the T- intersection. V1 was overtaking V2 and entered the number one lane preparing to turn right onto the intersecting street. The driver of V2 noticed V1's encroachment and locked up the brakes. The front of V2 and the right side of V1 collided in the number one lane. The impact caused V1 to enter a clockwise rotation and V1 came to rest in the intersection facing generally west. After impact, V2 stayed in contact with and followed V1 nearly to final rest. V1 came to rest in the original lane of travel facing generally east. The driver of V1 did not attempt an avoidance maneuver and stated that he did not notice V2 and thought that the adjacent lane was clear for his turn. V1 was not equipped with any side mirrors and was towed due to damage. V2 was driven from the crash scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over lane line on right side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). V1 associative factors: V1 did not have side view mirrors; they had been removed; the V1 driver was conversing with his passenger; the V1 driver was inexperienced; he had been driving for approximately 6 months; the driver attempted to execute a right turn from the number two travel lane.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from adjacent lane (same direction)- over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.