The crash occurred in the westbound lanes of a four-lane roadway divided by a grass median. There were two lanes in each direction. The roadway was straight, level, dry, asphalt with a posted speed limit of 72kph (45mph). The crash occurred early on a weekend afternoon while the skies were clear. Traffic flow was very congested.

V1 was a hit and run vehicle described only as a red Doge RAM pickup with unknown number of occupants. V1 was traveling westbound in lane two behind V2. V2, a 2002 Toyota Highlander four-door SUV with three occupants was in lane two. V3, a 2003 Hyundai Elantra four-door with two occupants was westbound in lane one. V4, a 1997 Ford Mustang two-door with one occupant was westbound in lane two behind V1. V1 started to move to the right to lane one and then swerved quickly and suddenly to the left in an apparent attempt to avoid a collision. V1 then drove off the roadway on the left side and onto the median, which was grass with mud and some standing water. V1 drove approximately 30m on the edge of the median and then veered back to the right, back onto lane two where its front right struck the left side of V2 (Event 1) pushing V2 to the right where its right front struck the left back of V3 (Event 2) which was stopped behind traffic. V4 at about the same time struck the right rear bumper of V2 (Event 3) with its right front bumper with enough force to cause airbag deployment. V4 came to rest westbound parallel to the north curb line about 20m from its impact with V2. After the first impact V2 traveled diagonally across lanes two and one about 13m where it struck and came to rest against the curb (Event 4) facing northwest. V3 after being struck by V2 yawed to the right in a counter-clockwise rotation and the right rear tires jumped the north curb. V3 then lurched forward and its front left bumper struck and came to rest against the right rear of V2 (Event 5) facing west. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Dodge Ram, was driven by an unknown person, who fled the scene in V1 at a high rate of speed, driving past traffic on the median grass. Based on evidence it appeared to the researcher that the driver of V1, after successfully avoiding a collision when he/she tried to move to lane one, overcompensated and drove off the road on the left onto the median. Due to the mud and water on the median and high speed the driver apparently lost control and veered to the right where it struck V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was other - this vehicle traveling returning to roadway from median. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded driver related - aggressive driving behavior. Associated factors assigned to this vehicle were driver recognition, driver inattentive thought focus unknown; too fast reason unknown; aggressive driving behavior speeding and rapid lane changes and leaving the roadway to pass on the median; driver performance, overcompensation; and other - highway traffic congestion.

V2, the Toyota Highlander, was driven by a 28-year old female. Neither she nor her occupants were injured. The driver reported that he was traveling 48-64kph (30-40mph) from church to a friend's home in lane two. She said she thought V1 came from behind and her left and struck her on her left side pushing her to the right where she struck V3 and then came to rest against the curb. She did not recall being hit by V4 or V3 and seemed confused at the scene.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other motor vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane traveling in same lane direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this Vehicle. An associated factor for other - highway - traffic congestion was coded for V2.

V3, the Hyundai Elantra, was driven by a 28-year old female. Neither she nor her passenger were injured. The driver said she had been stopped in lane one for 5-10 seconds behind heavy traffic. She reported that she was traveling from home to lunch. The driver said she heard squealing tires and then was struck from her left rear by V2. That impact caused her vehicle to spin in a counter-clockwise direction to her right. She added that her vehicle then jumped the curb and then struck and came to rest against V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event and the Critical Reason for the Critical Event were not coded for V3 since it was not involved in the first harmful event. An associated factor for other - highway - traffic congestion was coded for V3.

V4, the Ford Mustang, was driven by a 26-year old female who was not injured. She said she was traveling at the speed limit in lane two behind V1 which she claimed was behind V2. She reported that she was on her way from home to a shopping errand. This driver said V1 started to change lanes to lane one and apparently realized that he/she could not safely do that. She said the driver of V1 jerked back to the left where it drove off the road onto the median before striking V2 on the left side. The driver of V4 said that as she was passing she struck the rear of V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event and the Critical Reason for the Critical Event were not coded for V4 since it was not involved in the first harmful event.