This two-vehicle crash occurred late in the afternoon on a four-lane, level, bituminous, two-way, dry roadway. This roadway curved to the right in the northbound direction. This roadway intersects with a four-lane, level, bituminous, two-way, roadway that curves to the right in the westbound direction. This intersection is controlled by a stop sign and the speed limit for both roads is 89 kmph (55 mph). The roadway was dark and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Ford Taurus, was stopped westbound at the intersection, intending to make a left turn. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Kenworth dump truck, was traveling northbound in lane two. As V1 entered the intersection, the front of V2 struck the left side of V1. V1 rotated counterclockwise and departed the roadway. The front of V1 then struck a street sign and V1 came to rest in a corn field facing west. V2 departed the left side of the roadway and the front of V2 struck a guardrail. Vehicle two came to rest facing west. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-five-year-old female, was running errands on her way home from work. She was familiar with her vehicle. This driver stated that she has arthritis, back problems, migraines and occasional black outs ("but I haven't had one in several months") and takes the medication Trileptal. She further stated that she had driven this route daily until two-and-a-half months previously and thought that it was a three-way stop.

The driver of V2, a thirty-seven-year-old male, was on his way back to the shop from his last stop. He was healthy, well rested and comfortable with his vehicle. He stated that he applied the brakes but did not have time to avoid the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment from crossing street turning into opposite direction. The critical reason not coded to this vehicle.