This two-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours on a weekday afternoon. The crash occurred at the four-leg intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light traffic signal with no protected left phase, and the speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph) in all directions. The east-west roadway is a straight, level, five-lane, two-way, bituminous roadway. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions, and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Honda Accord 2-door coupe, was stopped in the third westbound lane at the intersection, waiting to turn left into southbound traffic. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound in the second lane, approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. A large truck was traveling eastbound ahead of V2 in the same lane, obstructing the view of opposing traffic. After the truck crossed the intersection, V1 made its turn. The front of V1 impacted the front of V2. Both vehicles deflected southeast to final rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 21-year-old female driver of V1 reported that she was rested and in good health at the time of the crash. She stated that she could not see V2's approach due to the presence of the large truck ahead of V2. She assumed that traffic behind the truck was clear, and executed her turn. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related decision error, turned with obstructed view.

The 37-year-old male driver of V2 reported that he was rested and in good health at the time of the crash. He stated that as he approached the intersection, the large truck directly ahead of him blocked the view of opposing traffic. As he entered the intersection, he saw V1 making a turn in front of him. He tried to avoid the crash by applying the brakes and steering right, but was unsuccessful. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction over left lane line. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.