This crash occurred in the evening of a weekday on a two-lane, two-way undivided residential street. The north/south roadway featured a curve with a measured radius of 33m. The southbound approach to the curve had a positive eight percent grade. The northbound approach had a positive four percent grade and at the curve apex where the crash occurred the pavement was level. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 48kmph (30mph) and an advisory speed on both approaches of 32kmph (20mph). Conditions were dark, unlit, and dry with no adverse atmospheric factors.

V1, a 2003 Mazda Speed Protégé was southbound on the residential roadway at a high rate of speed. V2, a 1979 Datsun 280Z, was southbound on the same roadway approaching the curve. As V1 attempted to negotiate the curve right it crossed the centerline and struck V2 head-on in an offset left frontal configuration. V1 then rotated about 100 degrees counter-clockwise and came to rest facing south partially in the northbound lane and partially off the northbound edge of the road in a gravel drive. V2 was pushed backwards and rotated about 90 degrees clockwise and came to rest a few meters south of V1 facing southwest all the way in the gravel drive. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a belted 18 year-old male who sustained non-incapacitating injuries in the crash and was transported to a local trauma center for treatment. The driver claimed to be in good health despite a history of depression, which he treated with medication. The 17 year-old female in the right front passenger seat was also restrained but was uninjured in the crash. The driver claimed that they were “running” from his passenger's ex-boyfriend who was chasing them. He indicated that he took the turn too fast and could not stay in his lane.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the left side of the travel lane. The Critical Reason was a driver related factor of traveling too fast for the curve. Associated factors include the fact that the driver was heatedly discussing with the passenger that they were being chased by his passenger's ex-boyfriend with her during the time leading up to the crash. The chase vehicle was coded as a rearward exterior factor that the driver of V1 was focused on. Aggressive driving was coded as speeding with the reason given as being chased. The driver's emotional state was also coded as he was upset and in a hurry to flee the chasing vehicle. The driver was also inexperienced, as he had only been driving for 18 months. A vehicle deficiency was also coded, as the tread on the tires was dangerously low (5mm).

V2 was driven by a belted 36 year-old male who was in the process of delivering food. He did not have the benefit of available airbags and was transported to a local hospital with incapacitating injuries. He refused an interview saying he hated anything to do with government whatever the purpose.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over the left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No contributing factors were coded to this vehicle.