This crash occurred on a weekday afternoon in a crossover on a six-lane divided urban roadway. The east/west roadway consisted of three lanes in each direction divided by a raised concrete median. The bituminous roadway was straight, and level with a posted speed limit of 72kmph (45 mph). At the time of the crash a heavy rain was falling restricting traffic flow and soaking the roadway.

V1, a 1998 Mercedes SL500R with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane two. V2, a 1993 Geo Prizm with one occupant, was stopped in the crossover waiting for traffic to clear before making a U-turn. V1 attempted to pass a vehicle in front of it by changing into lane and the driver lost control of the vehicle. V1 began to rotate counterclockwise as it moved toward V2. The right side of V1 made contact with the front of V2 in the crossover. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 45-year old male who refused treatment and after numerous attempts could not be located for an interview. He did however, state to the police that he was cut off by another vehicle, causing him to loose control of his car as he attempted to avoid the phantom vehicle. He was cited for failure to use due care and no proof of insurance.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle control loss due to traveling too fast for conditions. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was decision error, driving too fast for conditions. Specifically, the driver failed to reduce speed when encountering heavy rain and wet conditions. Associated factors for this driver included the presence of wet roads and rain as well as a tire deficiency (his tires were worn and improperly inflated).

V2 was driven by a 44-year old female who was transported due to non-incapacitating injuries. She stated that she had just left a doctor's appointment, and was on her way to do an errand. She was waiting in the left turn lane to make a u-turn. It was raining very hard, and visibility was low, so the driver wanted to make sure that no vehicles were coming. The driver indicated that she was stopped for at least two minutes, waiting for traffic to clear. In the driver's statement to police, she said that the driver of V1 appeared to be traveling much faster than a vehicle in front of him. It looked to her as if the driver of V2 got too close to the vehicle in front of him and lost control when he attempted to change lanes to get around the slower moving vehicle.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors for this driver included the presence of wet roads and rain.