This crash occurred during the daylight hours of weekday morning on a straight, two-lane, two-way roadway. The bituminous roadway featured a grade of 11.5% and a posted speed limit of 56kmph (35 mph). At the time of the crash the roadway was covered with ice the snow was blowing.

V1 a 2004 Ford F-150 was southbound in the right curb lane, traveling at 48kmph (30 mph). V2, a 2000 Chevy Blazer, was northbound in the right curb lane also traveling at 48kmph (30 mph). As V1 continued south the back wheels slid, causing the vehicle to rotate in a clockwise direction. The vehicle than steered hard to the left and crossed the centerline where its right side was struck by the front of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 27 year-old male who was on his morning commute to work. The driver stated that he steered to the left to correct the vehicle when he felt the wheels skid, but overcorrected. When this researcher asked the driver of V1 if he had the vehicle in four-wheel drive he stated that he did not need it. The driver of V1 also stated that he had owned the truck for only a week and was still not totally comfortable with it. He suffered minor injuries but was not transported.

V2 was driven by a 59 year-old female also on her morning commute to work. She stated she applied her ABS when she saw V1 spun sideways into her lane, but could not avoid the crash due to the slick roads. She suffered non-incapacitating injuries but refused to be transported from the scene.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, over the lane line left side of travel lane. The Critical Reason coded for V1 is a driver related factor, a performance error of overcompensation. Associated factors for this crash include traveling too fast for conditions as the driver did not realize that caution was required as well as inexperience since this was not comfortable with the vehicle.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Outside of the road and environmental conditions there were no associated factors coded to this vehicle and the driver was not thought to have contributed to this crash.