A single-vehicle versus pedestrian collision occurred a few hours after noon during daylight hours. The collision occurred in an intersection crosswalk on a busy two-way, seven-lane divided roadway, in southbound lane two. The pre-crash roadway is a slight uphill grade, and straight with bituminous paving. The weather was clear and the roadway was dry. The roadway has a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Chevy Cavalier, was traveling southbound in lane two. V1 entered a four-leg intersection on a green light and the driver was observing a bus just past the intersection. As V1 traveled through the intersection, the driver did not see the pedestrian until he was right on his windshield. The pedestrian was running across the intersection heading westbound in the crosswalk toward the bus. The pedestrian had just veered off of the crosswalk in a southwest direction when V1 impacted him. During the impact his body wrapped against V1 and his head impacted the windshield on the passenger side. The driver of V1 had applied the brakes and the pedestrian was thrown southbound and came to rest under the stopped metro bus. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1 is an 70 year-old male, who is reportedly in fair health with no hearing restrictions, his unknown vision restriction is corrected with the glasses he was wearing, he was well rested, and is familiar with the roadway. He had just picked his car up from a mechanic friend, and has not driven the vehicle for a couple of months. He was heading home, when the pedestrian ran out in front of him, he never saw the pedestrian, until he was on his windshield. Other motorists going north & south stopped their vehicles to let the pedestrian cross the street. The other vehicle in V1's adjacent Number three travel lane would have created a blocked sight line for the driver of V1 of the pedestrian's presence. The driver of V1 also indicated during the interview that his attention was focus on the bus towards his right front, as he wondered if the bus was going to pull out into his travel lane. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as: Pedestrian in roadway. Although there were factors present for this driver, the critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

The pedestrian was a 44-year-old male. Per witness statements and the police report, he was running across the intersection against the red light trying to make his bus that he was apparently late for. He did not obey the traffic rules and was focused on the bus and not the traffic to his right. He did not adequately survey the trafficway prior to running across the intersection, and made a false assumption that traffic would yield to his presence. The critical Reason for the critical event has been assigned to the non-motorist.