This crash occurred at an intersection with traffic lights. The road is a left curved 3-lane divided asphalt roadway from east to west. It is a three lane (one-way traffic) asphalt roadway from north to south. The speed limit for the roadways is 54 kmph (35 mph) for east-west road and 64 kmph (40 mph) for the north south road. This road is a one-way service road of an interstate highway. . The road surface was wet after rainfall earlier in the area, but there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash. It was early evening on a weekday.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Chrysler PT with four doors and one occupant was traveling west in the second lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Ford F-450 tow truck, was traveling south in the second lane of traffic approaching the intersection. Within the intersection of both roadways, the front of V2 impacted the right side of V1. V1 rotated clockwise and departed the roadway onto the west median. After 6 meters (19.7 feet) the right front of V1 impacted a tree. V 1 rotated counter clockwise and came to rest northwest of the tree, facing east. The vehicle was partially on the median and partially on the roadway. V2 rotated counter clockwise after the impact, and moved southwest. It came to rest within the intersection, facing southwest, 7 meters (23 feet) from each other. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. The driver and sole occupant of vehicle # 1 was transported from the scene with an incapacitating injury. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 33-year old female who did not describe her injuries in detail but advised she blacked out during the crash events. She stated she drove in lane 1. The dynamics of the crash indicate she was in lane 2 as pointed out by the driver of V 2. She said she was sure she had a green light, because she saw a white passenger car stopped in lane 1 of the southbound lanes. She could not describe the exact location of this car. The car could have been stopped for a right turn into the western lanes as well as for a red light with the later intention to proceed straight through the intersection. She said she passed out after the first impact, regained consciousness for a brief moment when her car impacted the tree. She then lost consciousness again.

The critical pre crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded "illegal maneuver". This vehicle ran a red light. The exact reason for this illegal maneuver is not known, but it seems the driver was sure she had a green light based on the fact she saw a vehicle stopped in the southbound lanes. If she came from the northbound highway exit road, and turned left to drive under the underpass, her light must have been red. The researcher approached the intersection the same way when arriving at the crash site about 20 minutes after the crash.

A 41-year old male drove V2. He stated he was in the second lane, traveling at a normal rate of speed and had a green light. He was on his way to "patrol the highway for stranded vehicles in need". He had just left his home and drove about 8 kilometers (five miles) to this location. He said he was using the service road instead of the highway as a pre caution. He wanted to avoid the dangerous wet roads. He said he hit the brakes but the truck slid into V1

The critical pre crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroaching into the lane, from crossing street, across path. No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle.