This one-car crash occurred on a two lane, straight, downhill, bituminous residential roadway with a posted speed limit of 40kmph (25mph). Parallel parking is allowed on both sides of the street. It was early in the night on a weekend. It was dark outside but the roadway was lighted, dry, and the sky was clear. The traffic flow was very light.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Chevrolet Prizm four door with only the driver present was traveling northbound when the vehicle crossed the center line of the roadway, crossed the southbound lanes and then off the left side where the left side of V1 struck the left side of a none transport vehicle (1999 Saturn SL2 four door parked and unattended). This in turn caused V1 to roll right three quarter turns. V1 came to rest on its left side facing northwest. V1 was towed from the scene. The driver was transported to a local trauma center. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

A 51-year old woman drove V1. She stated that she was coming from her sister's house from which she had been staying for a few months to her brother in-laws house. She stated to the researcher that she had got six hours of sleep in the past twenty-four hours and is on disability and doesn't work. She informed the researcher that her medications include Wellbutrin, Percocet, Oxycodne, and a breathing medication, all of which she has taken in the last twenty-four hours. The medical report states she admitted to the doctor that she takes percocet every four hours and oxycodone, Zanaflex that she took about 2 hours before driving. She stated that she was going approximately 8kmph (5mph) when the next thing she knew the car was on its side.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "driver related - sleeping, that is actually asleep". The driver was fatigued and was highly medicated. She is being treated for anxiety, has family problems and was emotionally upset at the time.