This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-leg intersection. The north/south roadway is straight and divided by a curbed median. The northbound lanes have an 8% downgrade and consist of two through lanes and a dedicated left-turn lane. The speed limit on this roadway is 64 kmph (40 mph). The east/west roadway is straight and consists of two lanes, one in each direction. The westbound lane has a 7% upgrade. The speed limit on this roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). There are stop signs at this intersection for the eastbound and westbound traffic. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Ford Focus, was northbound in lane one. The driver changed in to lane two due to a city bus stopped in lane one dropping off passengers. V2, a 1999 Dodge Caravan, was westbound, stopped at the stop sign. The driver of V2, after stopping to wait for traffic to clear, attempted to cross through the intersection. In the intersection, the front of V1 struck the left side of V2. V1 came to rest in the intersection facing northwest. V2 rotated slightly counterclockwise, moving west and the right front wheel struck the curb on the northwest corner of the intersection. V2 came to rest in lane one facing west. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-seven-year-old female, was on her way home from work and had picked up her two-year-old son from daycare. She was well rested and taking Tylenol Cold. She was very familiar with her vehicle and drives this route daily. She stated that after moving into lane two, she noticed V2 entering the intersection and applied the brakes, but was unable to avoid the collision.

The driver of V2, a fifteen-year-old male, was traveling from his home to a fast food restaurant. He was well rested and had driven this vehicle on this route often. He noticed V1 in lane one behind the bus and did not notice that V1 moved into lane two. He was looking for southbound traffic as he proceeded into the intersection. He realized that V1 was approaching at the last moment and accelerated in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid the collision.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was not coded to this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions. Associated factors include the sightline restriction for both drivers caused by the bus stopped to unload. Another factor for the driver of V2 was his inexperience.