This crash occurred in the afternoon of a weekday in the southbound lanes of a north/south suburban roadway. The bituminous roadway consisted of one lane in each direction divided by a painted median. The northbound approach curved left with a downhill slope but straightened out as it entered the two-lane section of roadway. The southbound approach was straight, with an uphill profile. The posted speed limit for all directions was 72 kmph (45 mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions but the roadway was congested due to several school buses that were departing a nearby school.

Vehicle One (V1), a 2000 Lexus RX 300 compact utility with one occupant, was northbound in lane one negotiating the curve. Vehicle Two (V2), a 2005 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 large pickup with one occupant, was southbound in lane one. Vehicle Three (V3), a 2005 Toyota Camry with two occupants, was southbound in lane one several car lengths behind V2. As V1 exited the curved section of the roadway, it began to drift left over the painted median. The left side of V1 sideswiped V2 as it continued drifting left. V1 continued forward approximately 20 meters (65 feet) and collided with V3 in the southbound lane one head on. V1 and V3 came to final rest at there point of impact. V2 traveled 40 meters (131 feet) and parked on the right shoulder facing south. V1 and V3 were towed due to damage while V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 45 year-old female, was transported from the scene due to non-incapacitating injuries. She reported being on a leisurely trip from her house to a friend and co-workers' house when the crash occurred. She claimed she was driving along at 64 kmph (40 mph) and as she rounded the curve, something to the right caught her attention. When she looked back straight, she had drifted into the oncoming lane and made contact with V1, and then continued forward and hit V3 head-on. She had no time to brake or try to avoid the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, over the lane line, left side of the travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was an external distraction. The driver stated that she was focused on an external object to her right, as she went around the curve. Associated factors include several physical factors such as a previous surgery and chronic pain (the driver had major back surgery 1.5 years prior to crash and requires the use of a lumbar brace daily). Another factor is drug use; she tested positive for cocaine and marijuana. These drugs combined with the prescription medications she also takes for depression, anxiety, and chronic pain can have several severe side effects (although she claimed to have a tolerance for narcotic pain relievers and that they do not affect her ability to drive). The driver was likely fatigued as a side effect and she reports not sleeping well at night. The EMTs reported her falling asleep in the ambulance while they transported her to the hospital. Her son also reported her as having an extended lack of sleep recently due to traveling. The heavy congestion was also coded as an associated factor.

The driver of V2, a 71 year-old male, was not injured in the crash. He was on his way home and driving southbound in lane one at 56 kmph (35 mph) when he heard a loud bang and felt the rear of his truck sway. He thought a deer had run out and hit his truck. He immediately looked in his left side mirror to see what hit him, but his mirror had been pushed inward during impact. He pulled over and saw the head-on collision behind him between V1 and V3.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. He reportedly takes prescription medication to treat high blood pressure. He also was listening to the radio at the time of the crash. The only associated factor coded to this driver was the congestion at the time of the crash.

The driver of V3, a 43 year-old female and her 14 year-old passenger; were transported from the scene with non-incapacitating injuries. She had the day off from work and had just picked her daughter up from school. She was talking to her daughter when she looked straight ahead and saw V1 in her lane coming toward her head-on. She braked, but could not avoid the collision.

The Critical Precrash Event for V3 was coded other, not involved in first harmful event. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factors coded to V3 were an internal distraction as the driver was conversing with her daughter, and the roadway congestion.