This two-vehicle crash occurred on a straight, level, undivided roadway that consists of two lanes in each direction. There are offset business driveways on both sides of this roadway. The speed limit on this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Ford Explorer, was westbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 Plymouth Acclaim, was northbound in a driveway. V2 turned right and entered the roadway. V2 then traveled to the left from the number one eastbound lane to the number two eastbound lane. V2 then attempted a left turn in front of V1 to enter a driveway on the other side of the roadway. The front of V1 struck the front of V2. The vehicles rotated and the left side of V1 struck the right side of V2. V2 continued off the north side of the roadway and the front struck a pole. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-year-old male, was traveling from his home to work. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that he noticed V2 entering the roadway from the left and then proceeded to turn in front of him. He steered right and applied the brakes. V1 skidded and entered lane one before the crash.

The driver of V2, a seventy-two-year-old male, was traveling from a store to his home. He was well rested, familiar with his vehicle and drives this route daily. He uses a CPAP machine to treat his sleep apnea and takes Coumadin, Lasix, Lexapro and Vitamins. This driver stated that he saw V1 but thought that he had time to cross the roadway.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction, over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed.