This crash occurred in a four-way intersection controlled by a signalized traffic control device in all directions. All the approaches of the intersection were 4-lane undivided roadways, all with: one left turn-only lane, one right turn-only lane, and 2 straight lanes (one in each direction). All the roads involved were straight, level, and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred early on a weekday morning and the roads were dry and the skies were clear. Traffic was congested with stop-and-go traffic activity.

V1, a 2006 Mercedes Benz E350 4-door, was traveling east in lane 2 (a straight only lane) intending to continue straight through the intersection. V2, a 1998 Dodge Ram pickup truck, was traveling west in lane 3 (a left turn-only lane) intending to make a left at the intersection. When V2 approached the intersection, the left turn arrow had turned amber and the driver of V2 hoped to beat the red light and proceeded to turn. At the time V2 was turning, V1 got the green light and proceeded straight through the intersection. The front left of V2 struck the front left of V1. Both vehicles came to rest approximately 9 meters southeast of point of impact with V2 on top of V1's damage plane. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the 2006 Mercedes Benz, was driven by a 41-year old male who reported "C" injuries and was transported to a medical center. The driver was stopped at a red light at the intersection in lane 2 (the straight only lane) intending on continuing straight through the intersection (continuing east). When the light turned green, V1 proceeded through the intersection although it was not clear because V2 was unsuccessful in beating the amber light and was still turning into the intersection. The driver of V1 refused an interview.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling-passing through intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event for V1 was coded as "inadequate surveillance." The driver did not look well enough to see if the intersection was clear before he proceeded through, he just assumed since there was a green light that it was clear. Without an interview the only other associated factor that could be coded to this driver was rush-hour congestion.

V2, the 1998 Dodge Ram, was driven by a 41-year old male who reported no injuries. He said that he was helping out a friend and transporting the vehicle that he was driving from a nearby tow yard to a repair facility. The driver said that as he was approaching the intersection he saw that the light was amber. He didn't want to get stuck waiting at a red light, so he tried to beat the light and turned left through the intersection. The driver said when he looked it appeared that the intersection was clear. When he saw V1 entering the intersection he hit the brakes but there was not enough time to avoid the collision.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was "This vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this driver. Several associated factors were coded to this driver. First, the driver failed to look. The driver claimed that before he entered the intersection he looked to make sure it was clear, but the intersection was not. It was believed that the driver was focused on making the light and did not check for approaching traffic, assuming that he could make it through. The driver was speeding according to a witness, and he ignored the traffic control device. The driver did not know when the light turned amber, just realized it was amber. So he didn't really know if he had time to beat the red light or if he was running a red light. He was coded as driving aggressively. The driver was in a hurry because he didn't want to get stuck at the intersection but also admits to frequently driving this way because "everyone is in a hurry." This was also his first time driving the vehicle, but the driver claimed that he was comfortable driving it because for work he often drives vehicles for the first time. Finally, there was rush-hour congestion.