The crash occurred on an undivided north/south secondary arterial roadway with one lane in each direction. It happened where an east/west residential side street intersected the north/south roadway, but otherwise the side street was not involved. The north/south roadway had a positive two percent grade if northbound. The southbound approach to the intersection had a slight curve right (west) with a radius of 262 meters. The northbound approach was straight. The posted speed limit on the road was 64 kmph/40 mph. Conditions at the time of the crash were overcast and dry in the early morning on a weekday during rush hour.

Vehicle #1 was a 1993 Buick Century traveling south on the arterial road. It came up upon southbound traffic at a standstill at the residential side street. In an attempt to avoid a collision with southbound traffic, Vehicle #1 swerved left into the northbound lane and was struck on the front right by Vehicle #2, a 1991 Ford Ranger. Vehicle #2 had been traveling north on the arterial road. Vehicle #1 was knocked laterally off the northeast corner of the intersection and came to rest with its left side against a large tree facing southeast. Vehicle #2 stopped about two meters from impact and was facing northeast at final rest. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle #1 was driven by a 43-year old belted female who was uninjured in the crash. She was near the end of a twenty-mile commute to work. No airbags were deployed in the vehicle.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for Vehicle #1 was this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the left side of the travel lane. The Critical Reason was coded as an incorrect evasive action as the driver's pre event movement was coded as a successful avoidance maneuver to a previous critical event. Failure to look far enough ahead was coded as an associated factor to this driver as well as traffic congestion.

Vehicle #2 was driven by a 54-year old belted male who was uninjured in the crash. He was on his way to work after dropping his son off at a nearby school.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for Vehicle #2 was other motor vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Traffic congestion was the only associated factor coded.