This two-vehicle crash occurred on a dry, straight, divided, six-lane interstate. The interstate runs east and west, but at the location of the crash, it runs northeast and southwest and there is three lanes in each direction. The speed limit on the interstate is 105 kmph (65 mph) and there were no adverse weather conditions at the time. This crash occurred during heavy rush hour traffic.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Land Rover Discovery was northeast bound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Ford Explorer was northeast bound in lane three. V1 changed to lane two and lost control due to traffic slowing down. V1 started to rotate counter clockwise and entered into lane three where the front impact the right side of V2, who was slowing down in traffic. V1 started to rollover leading with its right side. V1 departed the left side of the road onto a depressed grassy median rolling over nine quarter times coming to rest on its right side facing northwest. After the impact, V1 started rotating counter clockwise leading with its right side and ran off the left side of the road onto a depressed grassy median and rolled over three quarter turns and came to rest on its left side facing southwest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-one year old female was heading to work from home when the crash occurred. This driver had been driving for about forty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that she had been trying to get into the middle lane and as she did, she lost control, and reentered the left lane and impacted the other vehicle. This driver stated that she had some inattention factors relating to a divorce and giving this vehicle back to her husband today. This driver drives this road daily and this vehicle on a daily basis.

The driver of V2, a sixty-two year old male was driving to return a video to the store at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about twenty-five minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that he was watching vehicle one in his rearview mirror before the crash. This driver drives this road daily and in this vehicle on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle loss of control due to, too fast for conditions. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: inattention [i.e. daydreaming]. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from adjacent lane [same direction]- over right lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.