This three-vehicle crash occurred at a T-intersection. The main roadway is seven-lanes. The intersecting road is two-lanes. Both roads are straight and level. The seven-lane roadway has a speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The two-lane road has a speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The two-lane road is controlled by a stop sign. This crash occurred during evening hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Ford Expedition was northbound in the fourth lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Chevrolet Silverado was southbound in the first lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 2004 GMC Yukon was legally parked along the west curb. As V1 attempted a left turn at the intersection, its front plane contacted the left plane of V2. V2 then traveled towards V3. V2 contacted the rear plane of V3 with its front plane. V1 came to rest facing northwest. V2 came to rest facing south against the west curb. V3 came to rest facing south against the west curb. V1 received moderate damage and was not towed from the scene. V2 received major damage and was towed from the scene. V3 received minor damage and was not towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-three year old male, was traveling home from a grocery store. The driver had a guitar and the groceries in the second row of his vehicle. The grocery store is located across the street from the collision scene. The driver was scheduled to meet a friend at 2000 hours. The driver was thinking about his meeting at the time of the collision. The driver stated that he was taking a side street so as to avoid the congestion of a large intersection located north of the collision. He stated that the southbound two and three lanes stopped so that he could make his turn. The driver recently received a promotion at work, but did not add new responsibilities. This driver indicated that the traffic in the second and third lane stopped to let him turn and he could not see V2. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of V2, a thirty-six year old male, was traveling home from a friend's home. The driver played soccer last Sunday for about half an hour. The driver stated he saw V1 waiting to make the left-turn, but believed he would yield. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a monthly basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction- over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.