This two-vehicle collision occurred at a four-leg intersection. The north/south roadway is a seven-lane, undivided, dry, level, asphalt roadway, and has a two way left turn lane. The north/south roadway is designated 56 kph (35 mph). The east/west roadway is a two-lane, undivided, dry, level, asphalt roadway, with a passive stop sign. The east/west roadway is designated 40 kph (25 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one, a 2005 Nissan Sentra was eastbound in the number one lane. Vehicle two, a 2003 Toyota Tundra SR5 was northbound in the number three lane. Vehicle two's front plane impacted vehicle one's right rear plane as vehicle one passed through the intersection. Vehicle one rotated clockwise and came to rest facing northeast. Vehicle two came to rest in the intersection facing north. Vehicle one was towed with due to damage. Vehicle two was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a forty-three year old male was heading to a friends home. This driver had been driving for about five minutes at the time of the crash. This driver has twenty-eight years of driving experience. He was on his way to pick up a friend. This driver never stopped at the stop sign and entered the intersection. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a forty-seven year old male was on his way from picking up supplies for a construction job back to the client's home. This driver had been driving for about ten minutes at the time of the crash. He was talking to his passenger at the time of the crash. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as “this vehicle traveling: crossing over (passing through) intersection”. The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “other vehicle encroachment: from crossing street across path”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to vehicle one and was coded as “driver related factor: illegal maneuver”.