This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The north/south roadway is divided and straight. The northbound lanes have a 4.5 percent uphill grade and consist of two through lanes, a left turn lane and a right turn lane. The southbound lanes have a 4.9 percent downhill grade and consist of two through lanes, two left turn lanes and a right turn lane. The speed limit on this roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions and heavy traffic due to rush hour congestion.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Dodge Durango, was northbound in lane four. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Pontiac Grand Am, was southbound in lane three. V1 turned left in the intersection and the front struck the left side of V2. The vehicles rotated and the left side of V1 struck the left side of V2. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-nine-year-old female, had just picked up her children from school and they were on their way home. She was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her passengers. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that the vehicle is her mother's and she did not remember how often she drives it. She also stated that the green arrow at this intersection does not last long enough.

The driver of V2, an eighteen -year-old female, was traveling from the shopping mall to her home. She was well rested, healthy and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route monthly. This driver stated that she was talking on her cell phone and did not see V1 until the last minute. She steered to the right and applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The pre-event movement for V1 was coded as "accelerating in traffic lane." The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; other decision error (turning left without ensuring clear lane)." This driver's failure to stop for a traffic control device was an associated factor.

The pre-event movement for V2 was coded as "going straight." The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle." An associated factor was this driver's cell phone use.