This single vehicle crash occurred during early afternoon on a weekend. The roadway was a one lane, one-way freeway off-ramp. The road surface was dry, bituminous with a -7% negative grade. The off-ramp started straight then curved to the right with a positive super elevation. There are chevron curve warning signs posted along the off-ramp curve. It was daylight, the weather was cloudy, visibility was clear and traffic was light. The speed limit on the freeway was 97 kmph, 60 mph.

Vehicle one (V1), a1990 Lincoln Town Car four door sedan, was traveling southbound in the #1 lane on the freeway. As V1 exited the freeway the driver lost control prior to entering the off-ramp curve. The vehicle rotated in a clockwise yaw, departed the roadway and struck a guardrail with the back of the vehicle. The vehicle traveled along the guardrail and came to rest facing east on the right shoulder. The driver stated the rear tire blew out and the vehicle had a bad suspension. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1, a 25-year-old male, was wearing a lap & shoulder belt and was not injured. A 26-year-old male passenger (not listed on the police report) was seated in the right front seat. It is unknown if he was belted. The driver was well rested, in good health with no medical problems. The vehicle was borrowed from a friend, but he stated he had driven it several times. He was on his way to a soccer game, but stated he was not in a hurry. His statement that the soccer game started at 1430 hours, which was 45 minutes before the time of the crash, contradicted this. So it was then reasoned the driver was in a hurry.

The driver indicated he had reduced his speed for the ramp to approximately 72 kmph (45 mph), when he claimed he lost control of the vehicle and departed the right side of the roadway. The driver speculated that a rear tire blew out on the vehicle initiating the control loss. The vehicle inspection determined the left rear tire was flat from crash damage, but there were no signs of pre-crash tire failure. The pre-crash inflation pressure for this tire was unknown. There were no problems noted to the right rear tire. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was: this vehicle loss of control due to/ traveling too fast for conditions. Although there may have been some vehicle related factors, it was reasoned that the driver was traveling faster than he thought and this is what initiated control loss of the vehicle on the ramp curve. He was also 45 minutes late for the soccer game he was going to. The critical reason for the critical event was a driver related decision factor: too fast for curve/turn. This driver exhibited poor directional control of the vehicle while negotiating the ramp curve, in part due to his unfamiliarity with driving his friends vehicle.