This two-vehicle crash occurred at a four-way intersection during a weekday afternoon. The main roadway runs north and south with two lanes for each direction and additional left and right-turn lanes only at the intersection. The intersecting roadway to the west is a four-lane highway entrance/exit ramp. The intersecting roadway to the east is a three-lane city street that enters and exits a subdivision. The intersection is controlled by a pre-timed traffic signal without a pedestrian crossing. The conditions this afternoon were clear, dry, daylight and the traffic level was light.

V1, a 1999 Dodge Ram 1500 4x4 with one occupant, was traveling north in lane one toward the intersection. V2, a 2004 Honda CR-V EX with one occupant, was stopped at the intersection facing west waiting for its signal to turn green. Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the front of V1 struck the left side of V2. Both vehicles came to rest in the intersection but only V1 was towed due to damage. V1's driver was not injured but V2's driver was treated and released at a local trauma center. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 36-year-old male that works as a home construction contractor. His current job involved building a deck to the back of a house, which he was working on this afternoon. He was wearing a soft cast on his left hand because of a laceration he suffered at work last week so he could hold the steering wheel with his right hand.

He states that he was driving home this afternoon and as he was traveling north toward the intersection, an insect was flying around his truck cab and as he tried to swat it, he took his eyes off the roadway and ran a red light. As he entered the intersection, he looked up at the last second and struck the left side V2. He does not think he hit his brake pedal before he struck the SUV because it happened too fast for him to remember. He was not injured in the crash and appeared remorseful for causing the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded: “other vehicle encroachment from crossing street turning into opposite direction” and the Critical Reason of the Critical Event was “not coded to this vehicle”.

V2 was driven by a 75-year-old female that was driving to the post office this afternoon when she was involved in this crash. She is a retired nursing professor and spends most of her time taking care of her husband who suffers from a massive brain injury. She said she averages 8 hours of sleep each day but that her sleep schedule depends on the care of her husband. She wears eyeglasses (far-sighted), and takes medication for her osteoporosis, arthritis, and thyroid condition.

For this trip today, she had left her home 5 minutes earlier and stopped at this intersection for a red traffic signal. While stopped at the intersection, her neighbor pulled up next to her and waived at her. She waived back at the neighbor and then the driver behind her honked its horn because the light had turned green. She looked straight ahead and entered the intersection. She was intending to make a left turn (south) but as soon as she began to move forward, she was struck on the left side by a northbound pickup truck. This driver said she never saw the truck coming toward her because the northbound lanes are curved and because she believes the truck was speeding. She was transported to the nearest trauma center, where she was partially treated for her minor injuries.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded: “this vehicle turning left at intersection” and the Critical Reason of the Critical event was: “inadequate surveillance.”