This two-vehicle crash occurred in the southbound lanes at the entrance to a residential “T” intersection. The main roadway ran north/south and consisted of two lanes in each direction and was intersected by a two-lane east/west roadway. The bituminous roadway featured a gentle curve left (in the southbound direction) and an uphill slope with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The crash occurred during weekday evening rush hour when there were no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle One (V1), a 1997 Dodge Dakota compact pickup with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane two. Vehicle Two (V2), a 1999 Acura 3.0 CL with two occupants, was stopped facing southbound at the intersection (ahead of V1) behind a Non-contact vehicle that was turning into the intersecting roadway. As V1 was negotiating the curve at 72 kmph (45 mph) when the driver realized traffic in front him was stopped. The driver applied his brakes, and steered left, leaving 11.3 meters (37 feet) of skids marks, in an attempt to avoid the collision. The front right of V1 contacted the back, left of V2. V1 came to final rest straddling the double yellow centerline near the point of impact. V2 was pushed forward from the impact a short distance and came to final rest still in lane two. Each vehicle was moved by police to southbound lane one to relieve traffic backups before being removed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 78 year-old male suffered minor injuries but refused treatment. He was commuting home when the crash occurred. He claimed he was driving approximately 50 feet (15.2 meters) behind V2 when for some unknown reason, V2 stopped suddenly in the middle of the roadway. He hit his brakes and steered left to try and avoid striking V2, but was unsuccessful. The front right of his vehicle hit the rear of V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was Inattention. During the interview the driver alluded to problems in his personal life including references to being "old and alone"; and not having anybody in his life to care for. Rush hour congestion was coded as an associated factor. His vehicle had a dirty windshield and the right rear tire had only 14 psi of air in it.

The driver of V2, a 49 year-old female, suffered minor injuries in the crash and was transported for treatment. She claimed that she and her son were almost home when the crash occurred. She was traveling in lane two when a car in front of her stopped to turn left onto a side street. Due to heavy evening rush hour congestion she was stopped for approximately 15 seconds. She was listening to the radio and talking to her son in the front passenger seat, when she looked in her rearview mirror and noticed a vehicle more than 100 meters (328 feet) behind her, traveling toward her at a high rate of speed. She remembers bracing for the impact and being struck from behind.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other motor vehicle in lane, traveling the same direction with a higher speed. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors include talking to her son, the traffic congestion, and the fact she was not wearing her prescription lenses.