This single vehicle crash occurred in the northbound lane of a 2-lane roadway as the vehicle approached a railroad crossing adjacent to an intersection. Northbound traffic approaching the intersection is controlled by a stop sign located prior to the railroad tracks. The approach to the intersection is from a gradual curve left with a radius of 1,125 meters (3,690 feet) with a slight upgrade of 1.6%. The roadway is constructed of bituminous asphalt and markings consist of double yellow striping. The roadway west at the intersection is a gravel roadway. The roadway east at the intersection beyond the railroad tracks is bituminous asphalt. The driveway north, beyond the intersection, is hard pack gravel and turns immediately east and descends to a canal. The intersection at the railroad tracks is the crest of the elevation change and drops off to the north into a wide, concrete, canal with running water between 1.2 to 1.5 meters (4 to 5 feet) deep. The posted speed limit for north/south traffic was 56 kmph (35 mph). It was just after sunrise on a Saturday morning, the roads were dry and the sky was clear. There was no other vehicular traffic on this road.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1977 Nissan 280 Z two door with two occupants, was traveling north in the number one lane approaching the left curve and upgrade to the railroad crossing and intersection controlled by a stop sign. V1 approached the curve, entered, ascended the upgrade, and crossed the railroad tracks without stopping. The driver of V1 applied hard braking with lockup and began skidding directly north across the paved road and across a driveway comprised of hard pack gravel. V1 continued to skid north until it struck a flexible plastic delineator at the end-departure. V1 continued to go forward, struck a metal delineator post and began dropping off toward the canal that was perpendicular to the vehicle's path of travel. V1 struck a large concrete block at the upper edge of the canal embankment with the right front wheel, rotated clockwise, struck a large metal pipe, began to overturn and landed in the canal upside down on the roof. V1 was facing west at final rest in the canal. A witness heard the vehicle skid and ran to help. The witness observed a male body float up and out of the passenger side near the center of the canal. The witness jumped into the canal and by using his own shirt was able to get the male from the canal. The male gained consciousness and was able to speak. He stated that he was not the driver and the driver was still in the car. Efforts to remove the driver failed. The driver was trapped inside and under the vehicle until the vehicle was removed from the canal much later. He was pronounced dead after the vehicle was removed. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1.

A 38-year-old male drove V1. The surrogate passenger was interviewed but did not remember details of the crash. The passenger, a 43 year-old male, was injured and transported. The driver was removed from the vehicle by the medical examiner and later reported death by drowning. The driver purchased the vehicle only a few days prior to the crash. The speed prior to braking was estimated by the investigating officer to be 80 kmph (50 mph) or greater.

The critical pre-crash event was coded: this vehicle traveling- end departure. The critical reason was coded as: type of driver error unknown. This area is fairly remote and it is unknown if the driver was familiar with the roadway.