This two-vehicle crash occurred early morning daylight hours on a clear day. The crash occurred on a four-lane, level, dry, undivided, bituminous roadway that supports two-way traffic. Two lanes were designated for northbound traffic and two lanes were dedicated to southbound traffic. The posted speed limit for this roadway was 72 kmph (45 mph). This roadway intersects with a two-lane private driveway. The roadway curves moderately to the left in the southbound direction.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Kia Sephia sedan, was traveling southbound negotiating a left curve in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Jeep Cherokee, was traveling northbound in lane two. V1 attempt a left turn into the private driveway. As V1 turned left the front of V2 struck the right side of V1. Post impact, V1 rotated clockwise and came to rest in the private drive facing west. Post impact, V2 rotated clockwise and came to rest facing east on the northbound side of the roadway. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-nine-year-old female, was on her way to work. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she sneezed as she was about to make her turn. She further stated that she did not see V2 prior to the crash.

The driver of V2, a forty-five-year-old male, was on his way to work from his home. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that he saw V1 approaching and applied the brakes (skidding longitudinally) when it turned in front of him.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)." The distraction created by this driver sneezing was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."