The crash occurred on a two-way, four lane road that ran north/south with two lanes in each direction and was only divided by a double yellow line. The roadway was in an industrial section of town. A set of railroad tracks crossed the roadway approximately 80 meters south of impact. The roadway was straight and level with a speed limit of 56kph/35mph. Conditions were daylight and dry in the early afternoon on a weekday.

V1 was a 2005 Nissan Altima traveling south on the road in the right lane (lane 1) when a trailer that was originally being pulled by a V2, a 2002 Ford F-250 pickup (non-contact) in the left northbound lane came loose from the power unit (V2) and crossed over into the southbound travel lanes and struck V1 on the left side causing it to rotate counter clockwise and come to rest about ten meters south of impact facing northeast. V1 was towed from the scene. V1 was not contacted by anything in this crash and was driven away. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a fifty five year old un-restrained male whose airbags did deploy and was transported to a local trauma center due to incapacitating injuries. The driver stated that when he saw the trailer coming at him he accelerated and jerked the steering wheel hard to his right. He was on his way back to his place of business from a trip to the paint store at the time of the crash.

The critical precrash event for V1 was coded as an object in the roadway. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. The driver was on several medications including a tranquilizer and a pain-relieving narcotic. He also has asthma but this was not believed to have contributed to the crash. V1 was borrowed from the drivers' client and he had only driven it twice including on the day of the crash.

V2 was driven by a thirty-one year old belted male who was uninjured in this crash as was his passenger. The driver of the non-contact pickup (V2) stated in his interview that he was using a two-inch ball with a two and five sixteenths inch receiver on the trailer with no safety chains attached. He also said that as he came over the railroad tracks (“a little too fast”) that he believes the trailer came loose about then.

The critical precrash event for V2 was Other, trailer detaches from power unit. The critical reason was a vehicle related factor, trailer attachment failed. The driver was talking to his passenger at the time of the crash and was admittedly uncomfortable pulling the trailer in its condition of disrepair and wrong connector sizes.