The crash occurred at the intersection of a primary arterial U.S. Highway that ran north/south and a secondary arterial road in a business district/ urban area that ran east/west. On the south side of the intersection the primary road had four northbound travel lanes with a right turn only lane, a left turn only lanes, two through lanes along with two southbound lanes. The north side of the intersection consisted of two through northbound lanes, one right turn only lane on the northbound side, a center left turn only for use by either travel direction and two through southbound lanes. The east edge of the primary road on the north side of the intersection was bordered by a sidewalk, then a low hedgerow with a private parking lot on the other (east) side of that. The west leg of the intersection had one westbound lane, one eastbound left (north) turn only lane, and a straight through (eastbound) /right (south) turn lane. The southbound approach from the north side of the intersection was straight with a positive 5% grade. The intersection was level. The eastbound west approach to the intersection was also level. Both approaches were straight and had a speed limit of 64 kmh . The crash curred in the early evening on a weekday under daylight and dry conditions.

V1 was a 2002 Toyota 4Runner traveling south on the primary arterial road in the second lane when it entered the intersection on a red light and struck V2, a 1993 Honda Civic hatchback on the left side. The Civic was passing through the intersection in lane one of the secondary road traveling east on a solid green light. After impact V1 rotated about 180 degrees counter clockwise and came to rest facing north in the intersection on the south side near the center left turn lane. V2 traveled southeast, hit the curb/sidewalk and went through the hedgerow and came to rest facing south in the private lot at the southeast corner of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, was driven by a belted sixty one year old female whose airbags did deploy. She was uninjured in the crash. She admitted in the interview to running the red light but she stated that it turned from yellow to red just as she was about to enter the intersection. After timing the lights if eastbound traffic had a green light then the northbound traffic control/light would have been red for at least thirty seconds. She was on her way home from visiting her mom at a convalescent center.

The critical precrash event for V1 was this vehicle traveling, crossing over or passing through an intersection. The critical reason was code as driver inattention. The driver was also coded as completing an illegal maneuver (i.e., violating a TCD) and as failing to look far enough ahead to notice the light that would have been red for some time. The driver was coded as being upset. This seemed to the researcher to have been possibly due to her mothers' condition. This was captured as inattention due to a personal problem.

V2, was driven by a nineteen-year-old belted male who sustained possible injuries in the crash but was not transported by EMS. The same was true of his eighteen year old, belted, female passenger. They were originally on their way to take her to the emergency room to treat her migraine headache.

The critical precrash event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment, from a crossing street, across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. The driver was coded as being inattentive due to concern over his girlfriends' illness. He was also coded as having failed to look to either side ahead. The driver was coded as being in a hurry for the above stated reason for his inattention and was also coded as an inexperienced driver.