This crash occurred in the northbound lane of a five-lane roadway. There were two northbound lanes with a left turn lane and two southbound lanes with a no turn restriction clearly posted in two locations. This street intersected with a three lane street on the east side and a one lane street on the west. The three lane street had two lanes heading west and one lane heading east. The posted speed limit for all directions was 56 kmph (35 mph). There were signalized traffic devices controlling all directions of the intersection. The asphalt roadways were wet from the rain and level. It was raining throughout the morning and afternoon, sometimes heavy. There was curbside parking on the eastside of both the northbound and southbound lanes. The crash occurred on a weekday during the mid afternoon daylight hours. The roadway was free of any defects. The traffic flow was normal for this roadway.

Vehicle one, a 1995 Chevrolet Impala, was traveling northbound in lane one. Vehicle two, a 1989 Honda Accord, was traveling southbound in lane two intending to make a illegal left turn. As both vehicles entered the intersection Vehicle one contacted its front with the right side of Vehicle two, Vehicle 1 rotated slightly counterclockwise where it came to final rest still facing northward. Vehicle two, after the initial impact, continued its left turn and Vehicle two's left rear contacted Vehicle three's front left side. Vehicle three a 1995 Jeep Grand Cherokee, was traveling westbound in lane one of the wide two lane, east/west roadway. Vehicle two then contacted its front with vehicle four's front. Vehicle four, a 1991 Infiniti Q45, was traveling westbound in lane two just behind vehicle three where it came to final rest facing eastward. Vehicle two damages were severe and was later towed. V1, V3, and V4 damages were minor and were not towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of Vehicle one, a 22-year old male, said he was home on summer vacation from college. He travels on this roadway weekly and knows left turns are prohibited from the southbound lanes. As he reached the intersection a car turned right in front of him. The other vehicle made a left turn in a non turning lane. He saw him, however, it was too late to prevent striking the vehicle. He was talking with his passengers and listening to the radio but said he was not distracted. Neither he nor any of his passengers were injured.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event was coded to "other motor vehicle encroachment: from opposite direction - over left lane line". The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors for this driver include: conversing with passengers and listening to the radio.

Vehicle two driver, a 60-year old male, although very brief, said he was traveling southbound on the slippery road and he needed to make a left turn from lane two. About midway through the intersection he was struck by vehicle one traveling northbound. He said he was not paying attention to the sign and did not see the sign overhead for no left turns and didn't realize left turns were illegal. He rarely travels on this roadway and was on his way home from work. His speed was roughly 56 kmph (35 mph). He was injured, treated my medics on scene for a cut above his right eye, however he refused to go to the hospital. While the driver was being interviewed he was unable to keep focused on the questions being asked him.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event was coded "this vehicle traveling; turning left at the intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was a "recognition error; inattention (i.e. daydreaming)." Associated factors for this driver include: an illegal maneuver, inattention focus unknown, inadequate surveillance; looked but did not see, and unfamiliarity with the roadway, he rarely travels on it. .

The driver of vehicle three, a 42-year old male, he was traveling westbound slowly approaching the intersection when he saw vehicle two heading in his direction and put on his brakes. He wasn't sure if V2 would contact his vehicle so he stayed close to the curbside-parking lane. At one point after the impact, V2 seemed to be traveling away from his vehicle. Neither he nor his passenger was injured.

The driver of vehicle four, a 30-year old female could not be reached for an interview