This three vehicle rear-end crash occurred on a 5-lane asphalt road at an intersection. This intersection is four-legged and is stoplight controlled for all directions. This roadway is straight and level with a two-way center left turn lane. This crash occurred in the early evening hours during darkness with no obvious defects and no adverse weather. The posted speed limit is 72 kmph (45 mph).

Vehicle three (V3) a 1994 Buick Park Avenue sedan with seven occupants, was eastbound in lane one stopped at the intersection for the red light. The vehicle was behind several other cars. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Dodge Ram 2500 with three occupants, was also in lane one behind V3 decelerating to a stop. Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Chevrolet S-10 pickup with one occupant, was also traveling in lane one behind V2 approaching the intersection. The front of V1 struck the rear of V2 that moved forward where the front of V2 struck the rear of V3. All three vehicles came to rest east of the impact point. All three vehicles were towed from the scene. Some of the occupants were transported with injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

A 64 year-old male driver drove V1. He drives the route monthly and is familiar with the vehicle. The driver stated that he had been on the road for several hours and did not feel tired or sleepy. Driver claims to be in fair health and has a heart condition. This driver wears glasses to drive and was using them during this crash. He estimated the gap distance as 15 meters (50 feet) behind V2. He admitted to being inattentive. This driver stated that he might have been following too closely. Assuming the vehicle was traveling the speed limit, the driver did not have the gap distance to respond to the braking action of V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason was coded as a driver related factor: following too closely to respond to unexpected actions of others.

A 37 year-old male drove V2. He was on his way to a football game from a friend's residence. He drives the route several times a month and is familiar with the vehicle. At the time of the crash he was conversing with the passengers. He did not detect V1 approaching from the rear. He was decelerating to a stop behind V3 when the vehicle was struck in the rear.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling-this vehicle decelerating. A critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle.

A 45-year-old female drove V3. She was not available for an interview. Medical records states her pre-existing conditions were kidney transplant, renal failure and depression. Medication consists of Cloridine, Zantac, Cellcept, Diovan, aspirin and Clonidine.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event and the critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.