This crash occurred in the late afternoon of a clear day with no adverse weather conditions present. There was rush hour congestion at the time. The crash took place at an intersection of 7 lane divided east/west roadway and a 3 lane undivided north/south roadway controlled by stop signs. The speed limit for both roadways is 72 kmph (45 mph). For westbound traffic there is a downhill grade with a concrete surface. For southbound traffic the roadway curves left with a radius of 313 meters (1027 feet) and a slight uphill grade also with a concrete surface.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Acura MDX utility vehicle with three occupants, was traveling west in the third lane approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Dodge Stratus 4 door sedan with three occupants, was southbound, stopped at the intersection before entering the intersection with the intention of making a left turn. Vehicle three (V3), a 1995 Buick Lesabre 4 door sedan with one occupant, was northbound, stopped in the intersection waiting for traffic to clear the intersection before executing a left turn. The front of V1 struck the left side of V2. Both vehicles rotated and side slapped, the right side of V1 striking the left side of V2. V1 was deflected to the south where the front of V1 struck the right side of V3. V2 and V3 came to rest in the intersection adjacent to the impact points. V1 came to rest in the southwest section of the intersection facing southeast. All three vehicles were towed from the scene. None of the occupants were transported although some sustained minor injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 30 year-old female who is taking only vitamins as medication drove V1. The driver was on her way to her residence from her sister's residence. She is familiar with the vehicle and travels the route weekly. The driver had 7.25 hours of sleep the night before and had woke up tired, but during the day regained her strength. At the time of the crash the driver was rested. As V1 approached the intersection the driver noticed V2 at the intersection waiting to pull out into the intersection. The driver assumed V2 would yield the right-of-way. When V2 entered the intersection, the driver tried to slow down and veer to the left, but did not have enough time to complete either move.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded "other vehicle encroachment-from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." A critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

A 26 year-old male under no medication at the time of the crash drove V2. The driver of V2 along with 2 passengers were starting out to head back home to another city, the home of the driver. After spending all day just knocking back and a full nights sleep the night before, the driver was fully rested but somewhat impatient to get on the road. The driver had been stopped at the intersection for a few minutes waiting to enter the intersection. The driver was engaged in conversation with the passengers at the time of the crash. According to the driver, he looked to the left, saw it was clear then looked to the right and had to wait for more traffic before entering the intersection. As V2 entered the intersection, a passenger shouted about the approaching V1. A witness who was behind V2 at the intersection noted V2 had been stopped a long time waiting for traffic to clear before proceeding into the intersection.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded "this vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection." The critical reason was coded "inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see)." This driver was in a hurry to leave the city and get home.

A 57 year-old male who takes Lipitor, Avandia, Paxil and Celebrex as medication daily drove V3. The driver received 6 hours of sleep the night before the crash, but this is common with him. At the time of the crash the driver was heading to get an ice cream from just coming from a store. The driver was heading north with intentions of turning left. The driver stopped at the intersection waited for eastbound traffic to ease up before entering the intersection. V3 stopped in the middle of the intersection in between roadways to wait for westbound traffic to slow down so he could continue turning left. The driver of V3 saw V2 enter the intersection and get struck by the front of V1

The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded "other-not involved in first harmful event. " A critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle.