A two-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of a 6-lane asphalt roadway and a 4-lane asphalt roadway with left-turn only lanes. The westbound 6-lane roadway is straight and downhill. The eastbound lanes are straight and uphill. The intersection is controlled by a traffic control lights for all travel directions. The eastbound and westbound left-turn lanes are controlled by a left-turn green arrow that becomes a solid green, indicating left turns are to yield to right-of-way traffic. The speed limit for westbound traffic is 72 kmph (45 mph) and 64 kmph (40 mph) for eastbound traffic. The crash occurred at dawn with no adverse weather or road conditions present.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1990 black Ford Ranger pickup with a camper shell, was eastbound facing the sunrise in the left-turn lane preparing to turn north behind another vehicle. The green left-turn arrow had changed to solid green and V1 turned left immediately after the other vehicle turned and was impacted on the right side by Vehicle two (V2). V1 rotated counter-clockwise and was pushed into a guardrail in the northwest corner of the intersection and came to rest. V2, a 1993 dark blue Chevrolet S-10 Blazer, was westbound in the #3 lane approaching the intersection with a green light. V2 entered the intersection and its front-end plane impacted the right side plane of V1. V2 rotated clockwise and came to rest in the middle of the intersection facing east. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 20-year-old male, was on his way to work after eating breakfast at a local restaurant. He turned left at the intersection while the light was green. He stated that he did not see V2. He didn't recall if either vehicle had headlights on or if another vehicle had turned left immediately before him. The driver of V2 did indicate the there was another vehicle in front of V1 that turned at the intersection and V1 immediately followed the non-contact vehicle. This intervening vehicle most likely created a sight line restriction for the driver of V1. The driver of V1 is very familiar with the roadway and stated his vehicle was in good condition. The time of day, facing east towards the rising sun and color of the other vehicle may have also obscured his view of V2. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded as a driver recognition factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see).

The driver of V2, a 31-year-old male, was also traveling to his workplace from his residence. He was westbound in the #3 lane traveling the speed limit approaching the intersection with a green light. He stated that a vehicle had turned left in front of him just before he entered the intersection and that V1 turned immediately after the other vehicle. He applied his brakes but was unable to avoid impacting V1. He is very familiar with the roadway and stated his vehicle is in good working order. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment/ from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.