A two vehicle rear-end collision occurred in mid-afternoon on a four-lane, two-way road with two lanes in each direction. The roadway was dry, straight & level with no traffic controls. There were driveways for various businesses adjacent to the roadway. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph).

All lanes of traffic were congested and Vehicle one (V1), a 1978 Chevrolet El Camino, was traveling behind Vehicle two (V2) in the number two westbound travel lane. All travel lanes adjacent to the number two lane were congested with traffic. A non-contact vehicle forward of these two vehicle's had slowed and stopped to initiate a left turn. Vehicle two stopped behind the non-contact vehicle waiting to turn left into a private driveway. The front of V1 impacted with the rear of V2 and both vehicle moved forward and came to rest in the number two travel lane. The Critical Precrash Event was coded: Other motor vehicle in lane; other vehicle stopped. The Critical reason for the Critical Event was coded to V1 as a driver recognition factor, external distraction for looking rearward and not paying attention to forward traffic. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 was an 18-year-old male who was on an errand from home to pick up his brother at school. He claimed not to be in a hurry and had no concerns with family and is not employed. He drives this route weekly and has been driving for just 12 months. Prior to impact he had turned his head to the right and was looking rearward at traffic in the adjacent right travel lane. The vehicle was not equipped with a right side mirror which forced the driver to turn his head to see traffic to his right.When he looked forward he observed that V2 had stopped in front of his vehicle and attempted to avoid V2 by braking but could not avoid the impact.

The driver of V2 was a 25-year-old male who was on his daily commute home from work. He was not in a hurry. He looked in his rearview mirror after stopping behind the non-contact vehicle turning left and observed V1 approaching; and he braced for the impact. Due to the congested traffic on either side of his vehicle he was unable to move his vehicle. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason was not assigned to V2.