This crash occurred on a weekday morning at a “T” intersection of a 4-lane divided highway and exit of an apartment complex parking lot. The highway runs north and south with 2 lanes in each direction and a left-turn-only lane at the intersection. The bituminous roadway was straight and level with a posted speed limit of 89kmph (55 mph). The bituminous parking lot was also straight and level and was control by a stop sign. The weather conditions were clear, dry, and dark.

V1, a 1997 Mitsubishi Galant, was stopped at the stop sign intending to turn left. V2, a 1999 Kenworth medium heavy truck with empty trailer was southbound on the highway traveling at 89kmph. As V1 exited the apartment complex, passed over the northbound lanes, entered the crossover, and attempted to turn into the southbound traffic it collided into left side of V2 trailer. V2 continued forward 50+ meters and parked on the left side of the roadway. After V1 struck V2, it was forced into a grass median and back across the northbound lanes where it came to final rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 23-year-old male that woke up this morning at his normal time and was heading to work. As he was exiting his apartment community, he stopped for a stop sign at a 4-lane divided highway. He needed to pass over the two northbound lanes to reach the intended southbound lanes, so he waited for traffic to clear. He says he waited at the stop sign for three minutes before he crossed over the lanes and entered the southbound traffic. He said he saw a tractor-trailer (V2) traveling south before he proceeded forward, but he thought it was in lane one when he made his turn. The tractor-trailer was actually in lane two and when this driver attempted to turn into the southbound lane, its right side contacted the left side of the trailer. The collision forced this driver's vehicle into a grass median and across the northbound lanes where it came to final rest. This driver was not injured in the crash but his mother in the right front seat suffered minor injuries and was transported to a local hospital. V1 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason was coded as a driver related factor, an "other" recognition error, because the driver incorrectly thought V2 was in lane one when in fact it was lane two. This error was coded as an associated factor of this crash.

V2 was driven by a 38-year-old male that operates this large truck for the industrial material transport company he owns. He said he is in good health, but does take antidepressants and wear corrective contacts for his near-sightedness. He reports he was traveling south in lane 2 and began to slow for the traffic ahead of him. He said he was driving about 55 mph and took his foot off the accelerator as he approached the slower traffic. As he continued south in his lane, he drove pass the crossover and reportedly saw a white car (V1) cut across the northbound lanes and enter the crossover. He said he did not pay any attention to the car because he figured it would stop in the crosser. Only after passing the crossover and feeling something bump his trailer did he realize that the white car struck the left side of his trailer. This driver immediately drove to the shoulder and checked out the other drivers. The driver was not injured and V2 was driven from the scene.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into same direction. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There are no known associated factors, as V2 was not believed to have contributed to the crash.