This is a two-vehicle intersection crash that occurred early afternoon in daylight hours at a T-intersection that is controlled by a stop sign for southbound traffic. There are two westbound and two eastbound lanes that are separated by a continuous left turn lane. The speed limit on this roadway is posted 56 KPH (35 MPH). There is a single westbound/eastbound lane that has no centerline stripe to divide the lanes. The speed limit on this roadway is posted 40 KPH (25 MPH). The roadways are straight, level and constructed of bituminous asphalt. The roadway was dry and the sky was clear.

Vehicle one (V-1), a 2003 Toyota Corolla LE sedan driven by a 27 year-old male was stopped at the stop sign for about 10 seconds waiting to turn left to travel eastbound. Vehicle two (V-2), a 1999 Mercury Mountanieer 4X4 4dr driven by a 18 year-old female was traveling westbound in the #2 lane at about 56 kph (35 MPH). There was a Jeep (non contact vehicle) traveling westbound in the #1 lane also approaching the intersection. The Jeep began to slow down and turned its blinker on to turn right to travel north. This created a sight line restriction of V-2 for V-1. V-1 then began to make a left turn to travel eastbound across the path of V-2. The front of V-2 struck the left front area of V-1. The impact caused V-1 to rotate counterclockwise coming to rest in the #1 westbound lane facing west. V-2 was able to park the vehicle in a parking lot at the northwest corner of the intersection. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

The driver of V 1 stated that he had just left the parts store at the corner and was stopped for about 10 seconds at the stop sign. He said that he was intending to turn left to go home. He said that he saw a Jeep approaching the intersection. It began to slow down and then turned its right turn blinker. He said that he then began to pull out into the intersection and was struck by V-2. He said that he was looking in the direction where the Jeep was coming from prior to turning and did not see V-2 approaching. He said that he hit his brakes at the last second when he did see the other car coming. He said that he saw the other car coming when it was already to late. The critical event for this vehicle - traveling turning left at intersection. Critical reason driver related factor "inadequate surveillance".

The driver of V 2 stated that there was a Jeep traveling westbound to the front of her in the #1 lane. She said that the Jeep began to slow down to turn right at the intersection. The next thing she saw was V-1 in front of her. She hit her brakes and was unable to stop in time. She said that V-1 was about 20 feet in front of her when she saw it before the crash. The vehicle was towed due to damage. The critical pre crash event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment - crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor for this vehicle could also be the Jeep that was traveling westbound in the 1 lane slowing down to the front of this vehicle creating a sight line restriction of V-1 for this vehicle.