This crash occurred at an urban intersection without traffic control devices. The road is a 4-lane undivided (two-way traffic) asphalt roadway from north to south. It is a two lane (two-way traffic) undivided concrete roadway from east to west. The speed limit for the north-south roadway is 54 kmph (35 mph). The road surface was wet and there was a steady rainfall at the time of the crash. It was early afternoon on a weekend and there was little to no traffic on the roadways.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Chevrolet Blazer with one occupant, was traveling north in the second lane of traffic approaching the intersection of both roadways with the intention of turning left. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Mazda Protégé with two occupants, was traveling south in the first lane. V1 attempted a left turn at the intersection and the front of V2 impacted the right front of V1. V1 rotated counter clockwise and V2 clockwise and the vehicles side slapped. V1 moved south until it came to rest at the southwest corner of the intersection, facing southwest. V2 moved southwest, departed the roadway in the southwest corner of the intersection. It continued to move southwest on the lawn of a private residence until its front impacted a small tree and the corner and railing of the raised concrete base of the residence's front porch. The vehicle came to rest at the front porch. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. The driver of V2 was transported from the scene with a minor injury. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 57-year old female drove V1, the 1998 Chevrolet Blazer. She said she saw V2 further up the street, coming from the northern direction. She said she stopped at the intersection and made a left turn, but V2 came down the street very fast. She could not say for sure in what lane V2 was traveling. She is familiar with the vehicle and travels the route daily.

The critical pre crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed. The driver of V1 saw V2 approaching but decided to make a turn anyway.

V2, the 2000 Mazda Protégé was driven by a 25-year old female. Her spouse was interviewed at the scene. He said she was heading home from a relative's house. She had no reason to be in a hurry, had 11 hours of sleep the previous night and did not take any medications.

The critical pre crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction, over left lane line. No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle.