The crash occurred on a straight portion of westbound interstate that had three lanes with paved shoulders on either side. The south shoulder was bordered by a concrete barrier wall. The roadway had a negative 4.1% grade throughout the crash scene. Conditions at the time of the crash were predawn dark, unlit with no adverse weather conditions early on a weekday morning. The speed limit was 105kph/65mph.

V1 was a 2006 Dodge Ram 2500 traveling west on the interstate in the left lane. It was pulling a trailer that was loaded with miscellaneous items including a forklift, a motorcycle, and two other trailers that were also loaded and strapped down to the trailer being towed. V1 lost control of the trailer and it started to sway. It then jackknifed to the right of the power unit sending V1 front first into the wall on the south side of the road. It was at this point (it is believed by the researcher due to forward pull on the trailer ball from the wall impact) that the trailer separated from the power unit (V1) and continued down the road. V1 traveled about 15 meters west from impact with the wall and came to rest facing southeast in lane three. V1 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

V1 was driven by a twenty five year old belted male who was uninjured in this crash as his four restrained occupants were also uninjured. They had driven until late the previous day, gotten a hotel and left before dawn, and headed home after being on the road working for several days. As the driver of V1 had exited the vehicle on the interstate to inspect his vehicle he (and V1) were struck by another (non case) vehicle traveling west.

The critical precrash event for V1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason was a vehicle related jackknife event. The driver was coded as being fatigued due to a demanding work and travel schedule. The driver was conversing with his passengers at the time of the crash. He also had distributed the weight on his trailer incorrectly (researcher determined) distributed. His ball hitch on the power unit appears large enough to have handled the weight but the ball mount appears to be too small. This would account for the bent mount. Also this towed unit should have had a weight distributing bar to help control vertical force on the ball and an anti-sway hitch in addition to the standard to help control unintended side to side motion. For loads over 5,000 lbs these are both recommended in the vehicles owners manual and by trailer hitch manufacturers in conjunction with the standard ball hitch. The driver was also coded as too fast reason unknown. This is because it is believed by the researcher that high speeds in combination with the load issues are what initiated the jackknife event. The driver was coded with poor directional control and overcompensation also.