A two vehicle daytime collision occurred on a Sunday. The collision occurred on a six lane, divided, dry, asphalt highway with a curve to the right. The highway is designated 89 kmph (55 mph). The crash occurred in the exit lanes. The exit lanes were congested due to a concert that was taking place in the area. A concrete center divider borders the left shoulder. A chain link fence is present on the right shoulder.

Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 BMW 525I 4-door sedan with one occupant, was stopped in the southbound number one lane. Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Nissan Maxima 4-door sedan with two occupants, was traveling south in the number one lane behind V2. The driver of V2 detected V1 approaching at a high rate of speed and attempted to steer right before the front of V1 struck the rear of V2. At impact V2 ran off the right side of the road where it struck a chain link fence before coming to rest. V1 came to rest south of the impact point. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. None of the three occupants were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 79-year-old male with one passenger in the right rear seat. The driver only spoke Russian and could not be interviewed at the scene. He then refused when a translator was present. The officer at the scene said V1 left about 140 feet of locked tire marks.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded “other motor vehicle in lane-other vehicle stopped. The critical reason was coded “too fast for conditions-congested traffic”. There was a concert ahead and traffic was backed up.

The driver of V1 is a 26 year-old female with 10 years of driving experience. She also has some racing experience as she took a racing lesson for a movie she was involved with. She worked 70 hours the past week. Her last day off was Saturday. She says she is not a morning person and takes a long time to wake up however she felt rested at the time of the crash. She rarely drives this road. She saw V1 when she heard his car skidding. She turned her wheels to the right to try to avoid being hit by V1.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded “other motor vehicle in lane-traveling in same direction with higher speed”. A critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.