The two-vehicle crash occurred on a five-lane divided roadway with a positive barrier. The fifth lane is a HOV lane. The road was dry, polished, level concrete. The posted speed limit is 96 kph (60 mph). Traffic was heavy at the time of the collision. This crash occurred during daylight rush hour with clear skies.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Ford Taurus with one occupant, was eastbound in the fourth travel lane behind vehicle two (V2). V2, a 1996 Chevrolet Silverado with one occupant, was eastbound in the fourth travel lane. The driver of V1 wanted to change lanes to the right and turned to check for traffic on the right. Traffic ahead of both vehicles slowed and the driver of V2 applied his brakes. When the driver of V1 turned back to look ahead she steered to the right to avoid V2 but was unsuccessful. The front of V1 struck the back of V2 and rotated slightly counterclockwise and came to rest facing east in the fourth lane. V2 moved forward and came to rest facing east in the fourth lane. V1 was towed due to damage. V2 was not disabled. Neither driver was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a seventeen-year old female, was heading from home to a job interview at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about five minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated she could not recall how far behind V2 she had been prior to turning around. This driver stated that when she turned back around, she had no chance to avoid the collision. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a monthly basis. The driver has been driving for less than a year. There was traffic congestion at the time. The driver also had family concerns.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane: traveling in the same direction while decelerating". The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V1 and was coded as "following too closely to respond to unexpected actions".

The driver of V2, a twenty-year old male, was heading home from work at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about twenty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that he saw the other vehicle approaching but had nowhere to go to avoid the collision. This driver is not licensed to drive. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "this vehicle traveling-this vehicle decelerating". The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "not coded to this vehicle".