A single vehicle crash occurred in the evening several hours after dusk in the Northbound travel lanes of a divided urban freeway that curve to the right. The Northbound section of the freeway where the crash occurred was a four-lane freeway with paved shoulders and a Jersey barrier on the east/ right road edge and a metal guardrail bordering the west/ left shoulder. The road surface was concrete. It was dark with streetlights and the rain was very heavy. There was water over the roadway causing most of the traffic to slow. The posted speed limit was 97-kmph, or 60-mph. Due to restricted freeway access, the road curvature, superelevation & grade could not be measured.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Toyota 4runner SR5, was traveling northbound in the inside far left HOV lane. The vehicle entered the area where the water was over the roadway, lost control and traveled across all four lanes to the right shoulder and struck a Jersey barrier. On impact the vehicle was re-directed back onto the roadway where it rolled to it's left three ¼ turns. Vehicle one came to rest on its right side approximately 91-meters (299-feet) north of the impact to the barrier. The front of the vehicle was facing east in lane two. Vehicle one was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1.

No PAR was obtained and there were an unknown number of occupants in the vehicle at the time of the crash. There was no interview obtained with the driver of the vehicle, so many factors for this person are unknown. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was: this vehicle loss of control due to: poor road conditions (puddle, pot hole, ice, etc.) (Specified as: Hydroplaning in the original travel lane due to the standing water and speed of the vehicle.). The critical reason for this crash was a highway related factor of: slick roads due to the pooling of water over the roadway and speed of the vehicle that induced the hydroplaning & loss of control. Several other vehicles drove thru the same area without losing control, so it is assumed the driver was going too fast for the wet road conditions. The tires on the vehicle had sufficient tread depth and inflation prior to the crash.