This two-vehicle crash occurred at a four-way intersection in a downtown urban neighborhood. At the location of the crash, there is a north/south roadway with two lanes for each direction that intersects with a 4-lane, one-way (eastbound) road. The intersection is controlled by a pretimed signal with a pedestrian crossing and a Safelight camera that records motorists running red lights for eastbound traffic only. The weather conditions this weekend morning were clear, dry and daylight.

V1, a 2006 Toyota Avalon, was traveling south in lane two entering the intersection with a red signal. V2, a 1995 Oldsmobile Cutlass, was traveling east in lane two and entered the intersection with a green signal. The front of V2 struck the right side of V1 causing V1 to overturn four-quarter turns and come to rest on its tires. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage and V2 towed but was still driveable. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1 and 80 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 fled the scene after the crash and the owner of the car arrived on the scene and claimed his car had been stolen. He denied he was driving the car and police could not confirm whether he was telling the truth or not. The crash report described this individual to be the driver of V1, as a 25-year-old male with an out-of-state license.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling crossing over (passing through) intersection and the Critical Reason was coded: unknown critical non-performance.

The driver of V2 is a 73-year-old male that was returning home this morning when he was involved in this crash. He states he was driving straight (eastbound) at 72 kmph (45 mph) approaching this 4-way intersection when a southbound vehicle (Toyota) ran a red light and drove across this driver's path. This driver said he locked his brakes but he could not stop or avoid colliding into the right side of the Toyota. He said the other driver ran from the scene after the vehicles came to rest. He was examined by EMS on the scene but he did not suffer any injuries.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroaching from crossing street, across path and the Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle.