The crash occurred on the morning of weekday on the east roadside of a two-way, two-lane, north/south rural roadway. There was one lane of travel in each direction of travel. The southbound approach began with a left curve and an uphill grade of 11%. The bituminous roadway had a posted speed limit of 72kmph (45 mph). There was scattered gravel in the roadway due to new bridge construction nearby. Conditions were daylight with adverse atmospheric factors.

V1, a 2001 Chevrolet Malibu, was southbound negotiating the curve. As V1 negotiated the left curve it traveled partially off the right side of the roadway. Upon returning to the roadway, V1 began rotating counterclockwise, and traveled across the roadway towards the east roadside. The right plane of V1 impacted two orange traffic barrels, followed by a speed limit sign on the east shoulder. The speed limit sign impact caused V1 to rotate clockwise. V1 subsequently struck a telephone pole with its front plane. V1 then rotated counter-clockwise and came to final rest on the east roadside. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1.

V1 was driven by a 35-year old male who was transported to a local trauma center with minor injuries. He stated that he was staying in town with a friend and working for a temp agency. On this particular morning he was heading to a new job appointment on a road he hadn't traveled before. He lost control on the left curve due to poor road conditions. The driver claimed that the road was wet from an earlier storm (though neither the investigating officer or the researcher noted such a condition). He was not able to initiate an avoidance maneuver. He estimated his travel and impact speeds to be (64kmph) 40 mph. The investigating officer estimated travel speed to be (96kmph) 60 mph, and the EDR file revealed a travel speed of (104kmph) 65 mph. The sedan was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle control loss due to traveling too fast for conditions. The Critical Reason was the driver related factor of driving too fast for the conditions of a sharp curve with debris. In addition to traveling to fast for conditions experience also played a role in this crash; the driver was not familiar with this roadway and he had borrowed the vehicle from a friend and only driven it a handful of times. The tread on the front tires was also dangerously low which could have contributed to this crash.