This crash occurred in on a divided, concrete, level interstate roadway. There are not traffic controls for this road. There are five lanes of travel in either direction. The speed limit is 97 kph (65 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one, a 1997 Ford F-150 was heading east in the second lane. Vehicle two, a 2003 Ford Ranger was heading east also in the second lane behind vehicle one. Vehicle two changed lanes to the right to pass vehicle one. Vehicle two changed lanes to the first lane but in the first lane another vehicle was driving at a slower pace. Vehicle two changed lanes abruptly to the left and struck the right side of vehicle one. Vehicle one then departed the roadway to the right and came to rest. Vehicle two rotated and rolled over four quarter turns and came to rest in the first lane. Vehicle one was not towed due to damage. Vehicle two was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a twenty-three year old male was heading home from work at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about ten minutes at the time of the crash. This driver was commuting with two other passengers in the vehicle. One of the passengers stated that this driver is always tired when he picks them up. This driver is not licensed to drive. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a fifty-three year old male was heading home from his sisters house. This driver had been driving for about ten minutes at the time of the crash. This driver indicated that he changed lanes to the right and then the car in front of him applied his brakes. This driver then steered back to the left and impacted vehicle two. The correct evasive action would have been to steer right and brake. The next lane was the shoulder. This driver knew that vehicle one was there as he made the move to pass it. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as "other vehicle encroachment: from adjacent lane [same direction] - over right lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "not coded to this vehicle." The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "this vehicle traveling: over the lane line on left side of travel lane." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "incorrect evasive action."