This three- vehicle crash occurred mid-afternoon during daylight hours. The collision occurred in the collector distributor lanes entering the southbound lanes of a divided highway. The pre-crash roadway for the two southbound lanes of the highway is a straight and uphill bituminous roadway. The pre-crash roadway for the on-ramp is a curve to the right and uphill bituminous roadway. The roadway has a posted speed limit of 96 kmph (60 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Ford F-150, driven by a 29 year-old female with one passenger was traveling southbound on the roadway in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Chevy Pickup driven by a 24 year-old male with one passenger was traveling southbound in lane three. Vehicle three (V3), a 2006 Pontiac G6 GT sedan, traveling southbound in lane one and changed lanes to the left, from the on ramp to the collector distributor lanes. As V 3 approached traffic which was stopped for the metered traffic on the on-ramp. V1 approached traffic which was stopped and attempted to move left into lane three, and the left side of V1 impacted the right side of V2. V1 then moved to the right where the right front corner of V 1 impacted the left side of V3. V1, and V3 were towed due to damage. V2 was driven from the scene. The driver of V3 was transported to a local medical facility. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

The driver of V1 claims that when she began to change lanes, the other vehicle was not there, and that he must have changed over there at the same time as her, more quickly than she did. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: Inadequate surveillance.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane (same direction) - over right lane line. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle.