This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged intersection. The east/west roadway is level, straight and divided by a curbed median. The eastbound approach lanes consist of two through lanes and a left turn lane. The speed limit on this roadway is 89 kmph (55 mph). The north/south roadway is undivided, two-lane and level. The northbound approach is curved to the left with a radius of curvature of 109 meters and controlled by a stop sign. The speed limit on this roadway is 32 kmph (20 mph). This crash occurred at dusk with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Dodge Magnum, was eastbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Chevrolet C2500 pickup, was stopped northbound at the stop sign. V2 entered the intersection, turning left, and the left side was struck by the front of V1. The vehicles rotated and the left side of V1 struck the left side of V2. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a sixty-year-old female, was traveling with her sixty-year-old husband, from their home to a friend's home for dinner. This driver was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. She drives on this roadway several times per month. This driver and her passenger noticed V2 stop at the stop sign and assumed V2's driver would wait until V1 had passed through the intersection.

The driver of V2, a twenty-year-old male, was traveling from work to his home. He was healthy, familiar with his vehicle and travels this route daily. This driver stated that he looked both directions before entering the intersection, but that the glare from the setting sun obscured his view. This driver also stated that he felt fatigued when he left work and was "a little impatient" at the time of the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was "not coded to this vehicle."

he critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)."