This two-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of a two four-lane roadways. The southbound road had two lanes in either direction. The eastbound road has four lanes in one direction. Both roads are straight and level with no defects. Both roads have a speed limit of 40 kph (25 mph). This crash occurred during the daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one, a 2003 Jeep Cherokee was southbound in the first lane. Vehicle two, a 2002 Nissan Altima was eastbound in the third lane. The front of vehicle two impacted the right side of vehicle one. Vehicle two rotated and came to rest in the intersection. Vehicle one continued on and stopped about a block away. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a thirty-four year old male had started his driving trip after lunch and was returning home. This driver had been driving for about fifteen minutes at the time of the crash. This driver entered the intersection on a red light. This driver during the interview was constantly on the cell phone. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a fifty-seven year old female was heading to a casino to meet a friend for lunch. This driver had been driving for about fifteen minutes at the time of the crash. As the driver approached the intersection the light was green as the driver entered the intersection. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as "this vehicle traveling: crossing over [passing through] intersection". The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to vehicle one and was coded as "driver related factor: inattention". The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "other vehicle encroachment: from crossing street, across path". The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "not coded to this vehicle".