The crash occurred in the middle turn lane of a five-lane roadway. There were two eastbound travel lanes and two westbound travel lanes. The fifth lane was the middle turn lane, and additionally there was a parking lane on either side of this street. This was a straight, level, bituminous street with a posted speed of 48 kmph (30 mph). It was mid-afternoon on a weekend when the crash occurred. The sky was clear and the road surface dry. This street was a heavily traveled roadway and there was a substantial amount of traffic.

V1, a 1992 Ford Sable with driver and one occupant, had been traveling eastbound in lane two. V2, a 1996 Toyota Corolla with driver as the only occupant, had been parked in a parking lot on the north side of the street. V1 driver had intended to make a left turn at the next intersection and was required to enter the left turn lane to do so. V2 driver had been parked in a store parking lot and intended to exit the parking lot from the entranceway to cross the two eastbound travel lanes as well as the middle turn lane, and then make a left into the westbound travel lanes. V1 entered the middle turn lane before traffic was supposed to enter the turn lane - prior to the break in the painted lane lines. V2 exited the parking lot from the designated entranceway and pulled out onto the sidewalk. The eastbound traffic in lanes one and two had stopped to allow V2 cross their paths and make its left turn. V2 pulled onto the roadway, crossed the eastbound travel lanes and as V2 entered the middle turn lane the front of V2 struck the right side front area of V1. At impact V1 steered left and continued across the westbound travel lanes and drove up onto the curb. V2 received disabling damage and was towed from its final rest in the roadway. Upon researcher's arrival the driver of V2 had already been transported to an emergency room for unknown injuries. V1 driver and V1 occupant were present and reported no injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

V1, the 1992 Ford Sable, was driven by a 22-year old female who had reported that she intended to make a left turn at the approaching intersection and that she entered the left turn lane where V2 struck her vehicle. V1 driver advised that she and her friend were on their way to go shopping and that she was very familiar with this street. Driver acknowledged that V1's radio was playing music at the time of the crash but other than listening to the radio, V1 driver was not engaged in any other non-driving activities. V1 driver had stated that she didn't see V2 until the last second and didn't even have a chance to apply her brakes.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was, "other vehicle encroachment, from driveway, turning into opposite direction." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated driver related factors coded to V1 driver were having an obstructed view and a sightline restriction, both of which were caused by the vehicles that had stopped to allow V2 to enter the roadway. Additional driver related factors were non-rush hour related congestion, and listening to the radio while driving.

V2, the 1996 Toyota Corolla, was driven by a 31-year old female. Attempts to contact V2 driver were unsuccessful and it was concluded that V2 driver did not want to participate in the driver's survey. All that is known about the crash details regarding V2 was learned from both the physical evidence and the credible witness who had been traveling directly behind V1. Based on the physical evidence it was known that V1 driver had entered the middle lane approximately 3m (10 ft.) before the middle lane became a designated left turn lane for V1's approaching intersection.

The witness advised that all eastbound traffic had been approaching a large intersection and that the light had been red. Traffic in front of V1 and the witnesses' vehicle in lane two and traffic in lane one stopped to allow V2 to enter the roadway. The witness advised that V1, with the intention of making a left turn anyway, decided to not wait for traffic to continue and V1 entered the turn lane early. The witness did not know whether or not V2 driver had a chance to take any avoidance actions such as apply its brakes.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason was a driver decision error, other - turned with obstructed view. Based on the information provided by the witness it was most probable that V2 did not see V1 until it was too late. A view obstruction, a sightline restriction, and roadway congestion were also coded to V2 driver for the same reasons as for V1.