This crash occurred just after noon on a weekday in the four-way intersection of two five-lane roadways. Each bituminous roadway featured two lanes in either direction and a center left turn lane as the roadway neared the intersection. The traffic flow was normal and the roadways were straight and level each with a posted speed limit of 40kmph (25 mph). The intersection was controlled by properly functioning traffic lights. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1997 Toyota Rav-4, was northbound in lane two traveling approximately 48kmph (30mph). V2, a 1997 Ford Taurus LX, was eastbound in lane two traveling approximately 48kmph (30mph). As V2 entered the intersection with the green light its front made contact with the left side of V1. After the impact V1 rolled right one-quarter turn coming to final rest on its right side in the middle of the intersection. V2 came to final rest near the point of impact in the middle of the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 22 year-old female running errands. She stated that she saw the yellow light, but decided to continue into the intersection. As she continued forward she was hit on the left side rear causing her vehicle to roll over on its right side. The driver of V1 and her passenger in the right front seat were transported for minor injuries and V1 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Precrash Event was coded as a driver related factor, a decision error, illegal maneuver. The only associated factor coded to this driver was the illegal maneuver of failure to stop for a traffic control device as the driver saw the traffic light changing colors, but chose to cross over the intersection anyways.

V2 was driven by a 34 year-old male who could not be interviewed on scene due to the fact he was taken into custody on an unrelated warrant. On a subsequent attempt to interview the driver he refused to take part in this study.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded as other vehicle encroachment, from a crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associated factors coded to this driver, as he was not thought to have contributed to the crash.