This three-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours on a weekday. The crash occurred on a straight stretch of a five-lane, two-way, undivided, dry, level, bituminous, east-west roadway. The roadway is intersected on both sides by private business driveways, and the speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph). At the time of the crash, there were no adverse atmospheric conditions, and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Chevrolet half-ton extended cab pickup, was traveling southbound in a private driveway, about to enter the main roadway with the intention of passing straight across into a private drive on the opposite side. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Toyota Corolla four-door sedan, was traveling eastbound in the first lane of the main roadway, approaching the private drives. Vehicle three (V3), a 2002 Mitsubishi Lancer, was legally parked along the south curb of eastbound traffic, just past the private drive. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

As V1 crossed the main road, the front of V1 impacted the left side of V2. V2 rotated counter-clockwise and impacted the raised curb with its right rear wheel. V2 continued rotating and impacted the back of V3 with its right side, where V2 came to rest. V1 drove to a controlled rest in the private lot.

The 43-year-old male driver of V1 did not provide an interview. He reported to police that he looked both ways before exiting the private drive, but did not observe V2's approach. A witness stated that the driver of V1 was engaged in a conversation on his cell phone at the time of the crash. Another witness stated that V1 squealed its tires as it accelerated out of the private drive. The critical precrash event for V1 was: other; leaving driveway. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded as a driver related recognition error: internal distraction.

The 23-year-old female driver of V2 reported that she had gotten lost while looking for an address in an unfamiliar area; she was late for a job interview. She reported that she has received no formal driver training. A witness at the scene stated that the driver of V2 was engaged in a cell phone conversation at the time of the crash. The driver related that she had called the person with whom she was supposed to meet to tell him that she was running late. That person was also interviewed at the scene, and verified that the driver was talking to him during the crash. The critical precrash event for V2 was: other vehicle encroachment; from driveway, across path. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.