This crash occurred in the early afternoon of a clear warm summer day. The collision took place between 2 vehicles, vehicle 1 was heading north on a 4- lane, two-way divided level, bituminous roadway. Vehicle 2 was heading west on a 3-lane one-way -4% grade bituminous roadway. Both roadways were controlled by traffic signals. The speed limit for both roadways was 56 kmph (35 mph).

Vehicle one (V1) was a 2003 Dodge Durango 4-door SUV driven by a 40 year-old female who is taking Zoloft as her only medication. The driver of V1 had just left work to run a work errand 5 minutes before the crash. The driver had been glad to get out of the office that afternoon due her not getting along with her co-workers. As the driver was traveling north in the second lane, she approached the intersection with the intention of going straight. This driver uses this roadway on a daily basis and is very familiar with the intersection. Traffic was moderate for lunchtime around a major medical facility. The driver was thinking about her co-workers and not the task of driving at the time of the crash. V1 was struck on the right side by the front of vehicle two (V2). V1 ended up facing east in the middle of both northbound lanes. V1 was driven from the scene. The critical pre-crash event for this driver was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason was coded: inattention (i.e., daydreaming). If the driver had not been thinking about her co-workers, she would have noticed the light change at the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

V2 was a 1998 Honda Accord 4 -door sedan driven by an 87 year-old female who is taking Lipitor, Plavix, hydrochlorothiazide, along with vitamins and a baby aspirin. The driver had just left volunteering at the church and was heading to lunch with friends. Sleep and medication appeared not be a factor in this crash with this driver. The driver was traveling west in the second lane of the 3-lane one- way, bituminous roadway. As V2 approached the intersection the driver noticed V1 in the intersection in front of her. The driver applied her brakes and skidded until she struck the right side of V1. V2 rotated to the right and stopped facing northwest in the middle of the intersection. V2 was towed form the scene due to damage. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason was not assigned to this driver.