This two-vehicle crash took place during afternoon hours in an intersection of a one-way northbound roadway and a two-way east/west roadway. The northbound roadway had a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph) and had two lanes of travel, while the east/west roadway had a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph) with four lanes of travel (two lanes in each direction). Both roadways had a shoulder on either side that was used for parking. Additionally, the east/west roadway had designated bicycle lanes on either side. The weather was clear, the asphalt surface was dry, and both roadways were level and free of any defect.

Vehicle 1 (V1), a 1991 Ford Club Wagon Sport Van driven by a 64-year old male, was traveling northbound in lane 2 on the northbound roadway. The driver was not present at the crash scene and later attempts to contact him were made. This driver was not listed with telephone directory assistance and the address that appeared on the PAR did not exist. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 1998 Dodge Caravan driven by a 42-year old female, was traveling westbound in lane 1. An interview for the driver of V2 or the passenger of V2 (an 83-year old female) was not obtained. An individual who happened to be waiting for a bus on the northeast corner witnessed the crash and though she was unwilling to speak with the police, provided details of the crash through a neighborhood resident who acted as an English/Spanish interpreter.

According to this witness, she always "looks around," but most frequently looks to the east to check to see if her bus is approaching. On this particular day she actually witnessed this crash, reporting that V1 had run a red light. Through the interpreter she explained that she heard a "horn honking" and looked to the intersection to observe V1 striking V2. When asked if either driver attempted to avoid the crash she stated that V1 steered to the left. (The physical evidence supports this statement.) When asked if she knew who it was who had blown their horn she stated that the origin of the honking horn was from a vehicle that was traveling eastbound and had come to a rapid stop in the intersection (a non-contact vehicle). When asked how she knew that this was the individual who had honked their horn said that she could tell because she was right there. The witness further stated that the driver of this eastbound vehicle got out of his car and began to scream at the driver of V1 (in Spanish) for running a red light and almost striking his vehicle. The driver of V2 yelled at the driver of V1 as well (also in Spanish) for running the red light. There were no skid marks present at the scene and the traffic lights were functioning properly. Upon V1 striking the front left side of V2 with its left front, the vehicles rotated (V1 counterclockwise and V2 clockwise) and V1's right front corner struck the left rear of V2. V2 sustained additional damage towards the rear of its left side from this impact. At final rest, V1 was stopped in the northwest portion of the intersection in the crosswalk. At final rest, V2 was on the right shoulder of the westbound roadway.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling - crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason for Critical Pre-Crash Event was coded as an illegal maneuver. Without an interview, no additional associated factors could be coded to this driver. It was known that this driver was not on a cell phone as the witness was certain of this.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason was not coded to this driver. Due to the lack of an interview, no associated factors could be coded to the driver of V2.

Emergency medical services were dispatched to the scene and the drivers of both vehicles were transported directly to emergency rooms for the treatment of minor injuries.