The crash occurred on an east/west four-lane undivided highway. It was straight with a negative 4 percent grade in the eastbound direction. There were businesses located intermittently on both sides of the road. Traffic counts from 2003 indicate the highway carried 27,265 vehicles per day in the crash area. The posted speed limit was 80 kmph (50 mph). Conditions were daylight, dry, and cloudy on a weekday afternoon.

Vehicle #1 was a 2000 Ford Ranger pickup that was attempting to exit a private drive on the south side of the highway. Vehicle #2, a 1994 Nissan Sentra, was traveling east on the highway in the right lane. The Ranger (V1) initiated a left turn from the private drive and was struck on the left front by the front of the Sentra (V2). A secondary side-slap followed with the left rear of Vehicle #1 and Vehicle #2's right rear contacting. After impact, Vehicle #1 rotated 180 degrees clockwise before rolling one-quarter turn and coming to rest facing south on its left side in the right eastbound lane. Vehicle #2 rotated 90 degrees and came to rest facing south also in the right eastbound lane. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle #1 was driven by a 78-year old male that was belted with a deployed driver's airbag. He was hospitalized several days due to injuries sustained in the crash. Witness stated that he exited the parking lot, pulling into the path of Vehicle #2. At time of case submission, charges were still pending against Vehicle #1's driver.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for Vehicle #1 was this vehicle turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was misjudgment of gap or other's speed. The sight distance for Vehicle #1's driver looking left was 159 meters to the crest of a hill west of the crash site. Using the 159m distance, Vehicle #1 would have had 7.13 seconds to clear the lane if Vehicle #2 was traveling 80 kmph (50 mph) and 4.8 seconds if Vehicle #2 was traveling 122 kmph (75 mph). Also taken into consideration was a witness vehicle that was attempting to exit the parking lot on the south side of the highway west of the pickup's (V1) position. However, the witness vehicle was a small passenger car with a low profile that by all accounts was positioned south of Vehicle #1's line of sight so it was not considered to obstruct its view. The driver reportedly had no recollection of the crash. The driver was wearing glasses to correct an unknown vision condition and had several health issues, including heart trouble, a bad back, high blood pressure, and a previous stroke. Apparently the stroke, which occurred approximately ten years ago, had left the driver with speech difficulties. It's unknown if his motor skills had been affected. Since the highway was heavily traveled and driver was familiar with the area, the misjudgment of gap appears to be the most likely scenario for the crash. Alcohol was coded as an associated factor, although the BAC test results were not available. The driver of V1 was treated for alcohol withdrawal while in the hospital.

Vehicle #2 was operated by a 32-year old male who was not belted. The vehicle was not equipped with airbags. The driver was pronounced dead at the scene. He was making a delivery and had traveled about three miles when the crash took place. Several witness stated that although the pickup (V1) pulled into the path of Vehicle #2, V2 appeared to be traveling at a high rate of speed. There were no pre-impact skid marks present.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for Vehicle #2 was other vehicle encroaching from driveway turning into opposite direction. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factor coded to this driver was too fast for conditions, reason unknown.