This two-vehicle crash occurred near a traffic signal-controlled intersection. The north/south roadway is divided and straight. The southbound approach lanes have a 6.5% downgrade and consist of three through lanes and a left turn lane. The speed limit on this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). The east/west roadway is undivided and straight. The eastbound approach has a 5.7% downgrade. The speed limit on this roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Chevrolet Camaro, was southbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Infiniti M45, was stopped eastbound in lane two. V1 turned right at the intersection and traveled over the center lane line. The front of V1 struck the left side of V2. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, an eighteen-year-old female, was traveling from her home to work. She was well rested, healthy and familiar with her vehicle. She drives this route weekly. This driver stated that she was talking on her cell phone and inadvertently put her foot on the accelerator rather than the brake as she made the turn.

The driver of V2, a fifty-four-year-old female, was traveling with two passengers, from a relative's house to her home. She was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle. She drives this route weekly. This driver stated that she saw V1 but did not have time to attempt any avoidance maneuvers.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; over the lane line on left side of travel lane." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related performance factor: other performance error (specified as: driver hit accelerator instead of brake pedal). Internal distraction was cited as an associative factor for holding a cell phone while having a conversation.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."