This crash occurred on a two-lane asphalt constructed rural roadway. This roadway runs north to south with various curves and grades. The posted speed limit is 72 kmph (45 mph) with a -4 percent downgrade in the southbound direction of travel. The roadway is straight at the area of this event. This crash occurred during daylight on a clear sunny morning.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Ford Ranger pickup with a cab-high topper shell, was southbound when the driver saw a small animal in the roadway. The driver steered left across the centerline to avoid this animal then steered back into the southbound lane. V1 began to rotate clockwise when it was steered right. The driver steered hard left to counter the rotation and V1 then rotated counterclockwise 180 degrees sliding sideways down the road. V1 tripped on the right side tires and rolled 1 quarter coming to rest on its right side heading in a north easterly direction. During this roll over the right door glazing disintegrated and the passengers' right hand was injured. The passenger was air transported to a trauma center for this injury. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1.

The 49 year-old female driver of V1 was in use of the lap and shoulder belts and was not injured. She stated that she is in fair health and does take a daily medication for back pain. She sleeps good at night and slept at her residence the night before. She is familiar with this roadway and drives it weekly. She stated that they were on their way to a large city for a doctor's appointment and were early and not rushed. She stated that her speed was 56 kmph (35 mph). She stated that she was aware of animals on this road and had avoided some before. She did not have a valid drivers license due to previous DUI arrests. Associated vehicle factors for the control loss of V1 were that both the left and right rear tires had zero tread depth. All four tires were also underinflated by 43 kPa (5 psi). These tire conditions increased the potential for the rear end of the vehicle to get away from the driver while making quick steering maneuvers.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V1 was: Object or Animal in Roadway. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver performance factor of overcompensation. The driver successfully avoided the animal in the travel lane but V1 began to yaw as it was returning to the original travel lane. The driver then made a counter-steer maneuver in an effort to correct the yaw and this overcompensation resulted in the vehicle rolling over on the roadway.