This crash occurred on a weekend afternoon on the right shoulder of an undivided rural roadway. The east/west roadway consisted of two lanes in each direction flanked by curbed, paved shoulders with sidewalks. The bituminous roadway was dry and straight with a negative slope greater than 2% and a posted speed limit of 56kmph (35 mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1991 Chevrolet S-10 Blazer, was westbound in lane one. An unrestrained dog was riding in the back seat and began barking at two pedestrians on the sidewalk on the north side of the road. The dog grew agitated, barking louder and jumping around inside of the vehicle. The dog then jumped to the front seat and into the lap of the driver, which caused the driver to steer right. V1 traveled off the roadway to the right climbing the curb and striking a light pole before coming to final rest on the sidewalk. The vehicle was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1, a 35 year-old male, was on his way to drop his dog off at his girlfriend's house when it became agitated. The driver started yelling at the dog to quiet it, but was ineffective. He steered to the right when the dog jumped in his lap. The driver stated he could not see and the next thing he knew he hit the light pole. The driver sustained minor injuries in the crash and was checked out on scene while the dog was taken to a veterinarian to be looked at. The driver claimed that he was wanted by the police and was not concerned his injuries and refused transport to the local trauma center.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road, right side. The Critical Reason was coded as a driver related factor, an internal distraction. Associated factors for V1 include the driver looking at and yelling at the dog in his vehicle as well as the driver's inexperience with this roadway as he rarely travels it.