This crash occurred during daylight hours in a two-lane traffic circle. The north/south roadways are divided by a curbed median and consist of two lanes in each direction. The northbound lanes on the south side of the traffic circle are straight and downhill. The southbound lanes on the north side of the traffic circle are straight and uphill. The east/west roadway is two lanes and undivided. There is a curbed grass median in the center of the traffic circle with a large tree and shrubbery in the middle. There are yield signs at each entrance to the traffic circle and the speed limit is 40 kmph (25 mph). Traffic must yield to vehicles already in the traffic circle. The roadway was dry and the sky was cloudy. Traffic flow was steady in the area.

Vehicle one, a 2000 Orion Residential Transportation District bus, was northbound in lane one. Vehicle two, a 2003 Chevrolet Silverado pickup was southbound in lane two. Vehicle two entered the traffic circle in lane two intending to exit the traffic circle to proceed northbound. Vehicle one was stopped and yielding to traffic in the traffic circle. Vehicle one entered the traffic circle and traveled partially in to lane two. The front of vehicle two struck the left front of vehicle one. After the impact, vehicle one continued through the traffic circle and came to rest northbound in lane one of the roadway. Vehicle two traveled to the east and came to rest in the eastbound lane. Vehicle two was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a twenty-two-year-old male, was driving from one bus stop to the next bus stop. There were four male passengers on the bus. He stated that he has to travel partially into lane two to get the bus around the traffic circle. This driver had been driving for three years, but had just been trained to drive a bus three months ago. He claimed to be familiar with this vehicle, but he drives this route rarely. He was well rested at the time of the crash.

The driver of vehicle two, a thirty-six-year-old male, was very familiar with his vehicle and route. He had just left his lunch destination and was returning to work, but was not in a hurry. He works extended hours and is on-call twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, but was well rested at the time of the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as: illegal maneuver. This driver failed to yield to traffic already in traffic circle.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into same direction. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.