This two-vehicle crash occurred on a weekday in August during the early afternoon hours involving two compact utility vehicles at a T-intersection. The speed limit for both roadways is 48 kmph (30 mph). The north/south road is a 4-lane, two way, undivided asphalt roadway that has a 3.3 % upgrade to the north. The ease/west road is a two way, two lane undivided level asphalt roadway that is straight and level. The roadway intersects the north/south road from the west. Traffic on the east/west road is controlled by a stop sign. The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Land Rover Discovery with one occupant, was traveling east in the first lane of the westbound lanes. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Nissan Pathfinder with four occupants, was traveling north in the second lane of traffic. V1 stopped at the stop sign before proceeding into the intersection with the intention to turn left into the southbound lanes. He waited for a gap in the traffic flow to turn left, letting several vehicles traveling in the southbound lanes pass by. When V1 entered the intersection to attempt its left turn, the front of V1 impacted the front of V2. Both vehicles came to rest within the intersection. The crash was at a low speed and the frontal airbags of V2 did not deploy. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 27-year old male who did not report any injuries. He stated he possesses a valid driver's license in a neighboring state, but was unable to obtain one in the state where the crash happened. He further stated his vehicle had known brake problems ever since he bought it in December the previous year. He said he saw V2 from far away but found the gap in traffic big enough to attempt the left turn. He claimed he saw the driver of V2 talking to her passengers and being distracted while approaching the intersection. He was sure she changed into lane 2 before the collision. Both vehicles were removed from final rest upon the researchers arrival, but debris from broken headlights was still visible at the point of impact. This debris was found in lane two rather than lane one. The driver advised he was stopped at the stop sign for several minutes for the southbound traffic to pass. He stated during the interview he suffers from a little nervousness. He does not take any medications for this condition. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection. The critical reason was coded as a driver decision error: misjudgment of gap or other's speed. The driver saw V2 approaching, but estimated it would be far enough away to attempt a left turn.

The driver of V2 is a 24-year old female who claimed minor injuries and was taken to a local hospital from the scene due to complaints of chest pain. She was pregnant in the last trimester at the time of the crash. This driver could only be partially interviewed due to a language barrier. She claimed she was not conversing with her occupants at the time of the crash. She said V1 pulled out in front of her too suddenly to take evasive action. The critical pre crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle.