This three-vehicle collision occurred at a four-leg intersection comprised by a north/south roadway and an east/west roadway. The north/south roadway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of seven lanes (including a left-turn lane). The north/south roadway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of two lanes. The north/south roadway is designated a 56 kph (35 mph) zone. The east/west roadway is designated a 48 kph (30 mph) zone. The intersection is controlled by tri-light signals that were functioning properly at the time of the collision. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one, a 1992 Honda Accord was stopped westbound in the number one lane waiting at the red light. Vehicle two, a 1998 Mazda MPV was southbound in the number four-lane (left-turn). Vehicle three, a 2001 Volkswagen Passat was northbound in the number two lane. As vehicle two made its left turn, the front plane of vehicle three contacted its right plane. Vehicle two's front plane then contacted the front plane of vehicle one. Vehicle one was towed with moderate damage. Vehicle two was towed with moderate damage. Vehicle three was towed with moderate damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1 and 0 kmph for V2.

The driver of vehicle one fled the scene after the collision. There is no known pre-crash information for this driver.

The driver of vehicle two, a thirty-nine year old female was driving from one school to a second school. The driver is a full-time stay-at-home mother. The driver was listening to the radio as she was driving. She stated that she had been stopped at the intersection between five to ten seconds prior to attempting her left turn. Once she realized that a collision was imminent, she accelerated to avoid contact. This evasive maneuver sent her towards a second impact with vehicle one. The driver has never received any form of driver's training. The driver has five years of driving experience. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of vehicle three, a twenty-five year old female was traveling from a friend's home to a friend's school. The driver wears glasses for a myopic condition. The driver was not wearing her glasses at the time of the collision. The driver recently moved to this state to do an internship. The vehicle is registered out of state. She drives the route of the collision on a weekly basis. She has seven years of driving experience.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as “not involved in first harmful event” and the critical reason was coded as “not coded to this vehicle”. The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “this vehicle turning left at intersection”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as “driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions”. The critical pre-crash event for vehicle three was coded as “other vehicle encroachment: from opposite direction over left lane line”.