This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The north/south roadway is straight, level and consists of one lane in each direction with a left turn lane on the approach to the intersection. The east/west roadway is level and consists of two lanes in each direction with a left turn lane on the approach to the intersection. The eastbound lanes curve to the left on the approach to the intersection. The speed limit on these roadways is 65 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Ford Escort, was northbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Pontiac Montana, was eastbound in lane one. In the intersection, the front of V1 struck the right side of V2. V2 rotated clockwise and rolled over to the left two quarter-turns, coming to rest on its top. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-nine-year-old female, was traveling with her four-year-old son who was in the back seat. They were on their way from their home to a relative's home. She was healthy and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. She drives this route daily. This driver stated that she was talking to her son and occasionally looking over her shoulder at him. Also, she stated that she is farsighted (hyperopic) but was not wearing any type of corrective lenses. This driver had worked ten hours per day for the past four days. She had gotten four-and-a-half hours of sleep (her normal sleep is five hours) and had been awake for eight-and-a-half hours.

The driver of V2, a fifty-six-year-old male, was traveling from a social club to meet a friend for coffee. He was well rested, in fairly good health and familiar with his vehicle. He drives this route weekly. This driver stated that he has post-traumatic stress, a chronic heart condition and diabetes and takes Albuterol, Tegretol, Trazodone, Coreg, Lipitor, Metformin, Enalapril and Claritin-D.

The pre-event movement for V1 was coded as "going straight." The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; internal distraction." The associated factors for this driver were failure to look far enough ahead and the driver's fatigue.

The pre-event movement for V2 was coded as "negotiating a curve." The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle." Failure to look to either side ahead was an associated factor.