A three vehicle daytime collision occurred on a Tuesday afternoon. The collision occurred at a T intersection with a north, east and west leg. The weather was sunny and warm. The east/west roadway is a six lane, dry, asphalt roadway with left turn pockets. For north/south traffic the roadway is four lanes, dry, made of asphalt. For southbound traffic there are two lanes. The left lane is a left turn only lane and the right lane is both left or right turn only lane. Both roadways are designated with a 56 kmph (35 mph) posted speed limit and controlled by tri-lights that were functional at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1) is a 2006 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan, traveling east in the number three left-turn lane. Vehicle two (V2) is a 2005 Nabi sectional bus, traveling west in the number two lane. Vehicle three (V3) is a 2001 Grand Vitara 4-door compact sport utility stopped in the southbound number two left-turn lane. As V1 attempted a left turn its right plane was impacted V2's front plane. V1 then rotated clockwise and headed northeast to impact the front of V3 with its left plane. V1 came to rest north of the intersection facing northeast in the northbound lanes. V2 came to rest in the intersection facing northwest. V3 came to rest facing south in the number two lane. V1 was towed with major damage. V2 was driven with minor damage. V3 was towed with moderate damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 36-year-old female with 12 years of driving experience. She had the radio on as she drove to her son's school to pick him up. She had 15 minutes to get to her son's school. She herself goes to school and works a part time job. Her windows were dirty at the time of the crash.

The driver of V2 is a 44 year-old male. The researcher was unable to interview the driver of the bus due to city policy. His statement to the police was that the light was green for him and he tried to stop when he saw V1 turn in front of him. He made an assumption that the driver of V1 would yield the right-of-way to him.

The driver of V3 is a 25-year-old female with 9 years of driving experience but only one year of experience with a compact sport utility. She was wearing sunglasses at the time of the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason was assigned to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: misjudgment of other's gap and speed. This was coded because she accelerated to avoid the collision, which implies she did not think the bus was going stop.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction- over the left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.