A three vehicle daytime collision occurred in the morning hours during daylight at a four-leg intersection controlled by tri-light signals that were functioning correctly. The north/south roadway has two through lanes in both directions with left turn lanes. The east/west roadway is two-way, two way undivided roadway. Both roadways are straight and level with an asphalt surface that was dry. The speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph) for both roadways. There were no view obstructions at the intersection and no adverse weather conditions

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Toyota 4-Runner SR5 4x4, 4-door sport utility with one occupant, was traveling west in the number one lane entering the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Mercedes Benz C-230 Kompressor 4-door sedan with one occupant, was traveling north in the number one lane also entering the intersection. Vehicle three (V3), a 2000 Ford Expedition SUV with one occupant, was traveling north in the number two lane. V2 was traveling faster and slightly ahead of V3. As V1 passed through the intersection its left plane was struck by the front of V2. As both vehicles moved together in a northwesterly direction, the front right of V3 struck the left side of V2. V1 rotated counter clockwise and came to rest facing southeast near the west curb. V2 came to rest facing southeast in the southbound left turn lane. V3 came to rest facing northeast just north of the intersection. V3 was then driven to the east curb. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene. The drivers of V1 and V2 were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 30 year-old male with 14 years of driving experience. He attended traffic school 3 to 5 years ago. He had 5 hours of sleep the night before and worked a 12-hour day the day before. It was his first time driving the route but is familiar with the vehicle. He said he saw that the light was green when he was about a block away then never re-checked the light as he approached and entered the intersection. He did not detect V2 or V3 and did not attempt any evasive maneuvers. He entered the intersection on a red light.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded “this vehicle traveling-crossing over (passing through) intersection”. The critical reason was coded “inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see)”.

The driver of V2 is a 32 year-old female with 17 years of driving experience. She was on her way to work on her daily commute. She has a myopic (nearsighted) condition but does not need to wear glasses while driving. She is familiar with the vehicle. This driver did not detect V1 and attempted no evasive maneuvers.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded “other vehicle encroachment-from crossing street, across path”. A critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle.

The driver of V3 is a 43 year-old male with 27 years of driving experience. He was on his way to work after dropping off his wife at her work and his kids at their school. The driver attempted to steer left and braked prior to impact.

The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded “other-not involved in first harmful event”. A critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.