This two-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours on a weekend afternoon. The crash occurred at the four-leg intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light traffic signal, and the speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph) in all directions. Both roadways are five-lane, two-way, straight, level, bituminous roads. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions, and the road was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, was traveling northbound in the third (left turn only) lane, approaching the intersection with the intention of turning left into westbound traffic. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan, was traveling southbound in the first lane, approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. As V1 turned, the front of V1 impacted the front of V2. V2 stopped at impact, and V1 continued forward, scraping its right side along V2's front. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 30-year-old male driver of V1 was traveling with his 6-year-old son. The driver reported that his son was seated in the right front seat and was complaining of being hungry; he planned to stop at a nearby fast-food restaurant. As he approached the intersection, the tri-light entered the green phase, but not the protected left phase. He executed the left turn without observing the opposing traffic. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded as a driver-related recognition error: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). The inadequate surveillance was related to the associated factor of internal distraction. His son was complaining about being hungry and they were also listening to the radio.

He 51-year-old male driver of V2 reported that he was decelerating slightly as he approached the intersection on the red phase of the tri-light. Prior to the collision he and his two occupants were listening to the radio. He takes the medication Prozac for an anxiety disorder. They were on their way to a department store after leaving from a grocery store for this trip. As he approached, the light changed to green, and he accelerated just before entering the intersection. As he crossed the threshold of the intersection, he realized that V1 was making a turn in front of him. He applied the brakes, but was unable to avoid the collision. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction, over left lane line. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.