The two-vehicle crash occurred in a heavily traveled intersection where a physically divided five-lane north/southbound street intersected with a four lane undivided east/westbound street. Both streets had two lanes for travel in either direction. Additionally, the north/south roadway and the east/west had right turn lanes that were separated by small raised concrete medians. The north/south roadway had a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph) and the east/west street had a speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). Both streets were controlled by standard traffic lights as well as overhead traffic lights. On the right side of the westbound street there was a thruway that went over the north side of the intersection and then crossing over the west side of the intersection. Each street was straight and level (the east/west roadway was on a slight decline), and had bituminous surfaces that were dry and free from any noticeable defects. The crash occurred on a clear weekend afternoon with moderate traffic flow, and glaring sun.

V1, a 2002 Pontiac Grand Prix four door with two occupants was traveling westbound in lane two, and was stopped at a red light. V2, a 1994 Dodge Shadow two door with driver as the only occupant was traveling southbound in lane two. In westbound lane one, stopped just to the right of V1 was another vehicle who witnessed the crash. As the traffic light for V1 turned green, V1 and the vehicle driven by the witness accelerated into the intersection and V1, with its front, struck the left side driver's door and part of the rear section of the left side of V2. Upon impact V1 rotated approximately twenty degrees in a counterclockwise motion and came to its final rest in the intersection. V2, after impact, applied the brakes and continued in a southwestwardly direction where the front of V2 departed the roadway on the southwest turn island striking the metal traffic light and coming to its final rest. The witness had noticed V2 entering the intersection and stopped even though he and V1 had the right of way, in order to avoid a collision with V2. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

V1 driver had already been transported to an emergency room upon researcher's arrival. Many attempts to contact V1 driver were made but V1 driver chose not to participate in the driver's survey. It is unknown if V1 driver was engaged in any non-driving activities though it is known from the witness who was stopped next to V1 at the traffic light that there was nothing out of the ordinary with regard to V1's precrash movements. V1 driver suffered from mild swelling to her face from the airbag and soreness to her chest, presumably from the seatbelt. V1 driver spent over three hours in an emergency room and decided that the wait to be further evaluated was too long, so V1 driver left the hospital.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason for the critical event was a driver related factor, inadequate surveillance." (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see) Given that the vehicle driven by the witness noticed V2 and stopped, V1 driver should have noticed that something was out of the ordinary and that caution was required. Associated driver related factors coded to V1 driver was sunglare and a possible sightline restriction caused by the witnesses stopped vehicle.

V2, the 1994 Dodge Shadow, was driven by a 28-year old female who advised while at the crash scene that she had not been injured. She stated that she had been on her way to a friend's house and that she didn't drive this roadway on a daily basis, but was familiar with it. V2 driver advised that she had seen that her traffic light was green so she continued into the intersection at the legal speed limit and was hit on her left side by the front of V1. V2 driver explained that she never saw V1 coming and did not have a chance to take any avoidance maneuvers. After being struck by V1, V2 driver stated that she applied her brakes but was unable to stop her vehicle before she struck the metal pole. V2 driver advised that she had just recently had a baby and though she slept a lot, she would often have to wake up during her sleep due to the baby, and this left her feeling fatigued. V2 driver also shared that she had been diagnosed with depression and takes the prescription drug "Lexapro".

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street/across path." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. An associated vehicle related factor coded to V2 was a significantly over inflated front left tire as well as dangerously low tread depth levels on the right front tire. Associated driver related factors coded to V2 driver were: sunglare, failing to stop for a traffic control device, suffering from depression, fatigue, and having taken medication in the previous eight hours. (Among other things, Lexapro has a possible side effect of causing drowsiness.)

The witness to this crash had stated that he and V1 had been stopped at their red light and that when it turned green, they proceeded. The witness stated that he noticed V2 approaching the intersection so he applied his brakes and stopped. V1, according to the witness, did not see V2 and continued into the intersection where V1 then struck V2. The witness advised that one of the traffic lights for V2 had also been green when she entered the intersection, and that V2 driver must have been focused on the light that looked green. Instead, it was observed that the sunglare made seeing one of V2's traffic lights difficult to see.