This two-vehicle early morning crash occurred within a 4-way, traffic signal controlled intersection with pedestrian controls. The north/south roadway consists of two through lanes in each direction that is divided by a left turn lane. The east/west roadway consists of one through lane in each direction and a left turn lane. Both roadways were straight, level, bituminous, and had a posted speed limit of 65 kmph (40 mph). At the time of the crash, the road surfaces were dry, the sky was clear and there were no sight restrictions or road defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Mercury Tracer 4 door, was northbound in the number one lane, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Ford Taurus 4 door, was stopped for a red light. The light turned green and the V2 driver entered the intersection to turn left. The V1 driver noticed the light change to red and applied hard braking with lockup. V1 skidded approximately 12.5 meters (41 feet) into the intersection and the front of V1 struck the left side of V2. The impact deflected V1 counterclockwise somewhat and propelled V2 approximately 2 meters (6.7 feet) to the northwest. V2 then rolled to final rest in the southwest corner of the intersection facing generally southwest. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The V1 driver, a 38 year old female who reported no injuries stated that she was going about 48 kmph (30 mph) as she approached the intersection. The length of the pre-impact skidmarks indicate that she was more than likely going the posted speed limit when she applied he brakes just prior to the intersection. She noticed the light turn red and saw V2 enter the intersection, and braked to avoid V2, but was unable to avoid the crash. She works an average of 40 hours per week, normally sleeps 9 to 10 hours every night, and felt well rested on the day of the crash. The driver claimed no interior or exterior distractions, which indicates she may have been inattentive to the driving task not realizing that caution was required due to the light change.

The V2 driver, a 73-year-old female, was transported with possible injuries. She stated that she had been stopped for 5 -10 seconds when the light turned green for her, and did not see V1 until the impact. She was wearing a hearing aid, normally gets 9 ½ hours sleep every night, and felt well rested on the day of the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inattention (i.e., daydreaming).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.