The crash occurred at a four-way intersection. The north/south street was a two-way, two-lane undivided roadway. The east/west street was a two-way, two-lane undivided roadway, controlled by a stop sign. The posted speed in all directions was 48 kmph (30 mph). These were straight, level, asphalt roads. Conditions were cloudy on a weekday afternoon with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 2001 Mercury Grand Marquis taxi cab with two occupants, was traveling northbound in lane one. V2, a 1992 Ford Ranger with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane one. Both vehicles were approaching the same intersection. As V1 passed through the intersection, the driver swerved into V2's travel lane. The front of V1 made contact with the front of V2 in a head-on collision. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.

V1, the Mercury Marquis, was driven by a 36-year old male, who refused medical treatment on-scene. He stated that he had just picked up his first cab fare of the day. The pickup location was one half-block south of the intersection. The passenger got into the back of the cab and instructed the driver to go to the airport. The driver began to converse with the passenger as he started the fare meter and began to accelerate northbound toward the intersection. According to the driver, a minivan which was waiting at a stop sign facing westbound, pulled into the intersection and then suddenly stopped. The driver said that he had to quickly swerve into the left lane to avoid hitting the minivan.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on left side of travel lane". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a "driver performance error, panic/freezing". It was determined that the minivan did not actually pull into the intersection. The driver merely anticipated that the minivan was going to proceed. In a knee-jerk reaction the driver took an irrational and impulsive action, when no action was required. One associated factor for this driver was the presence of a social conversation with the passenger. The driver was also engaged in some non-driving activities. It is believed that the driver was looking at the passenger in the back seat as he began to accelerate, and started the cab fare meter. Another associated factor was the driver's use of medication. The driver reportedly took two 10mg strength tablets of a pain medication prior to the start of his shift. The driver was also fatigued, working 75 hours the week of the crash. In addition, the driver had no formal driver education.

V2, the Ford Ranger, was driven by a 24-year old male, who was transported from the scene due to injury. He stated that he had just gotten off work, and was taking a roundabout way home. As the driver traveled south, he was looking for a vehicle that he had seen for sale in someone's driveway. The driver indicated that he was traveling slightly slower than the speed limit because he was searching forward and to his left. He took notice of the minivan, which was in his line of sight at the time. He said that the minivan may have started to roll, but never entered the intersection. According to the driver of V2, the cab driver wouldn't have overreacted if he was paying attention to what was in front of him.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over left lane line". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The driver was engaged in a non-driving activity, smoking. An associated exterior factor was a for sale vehicle that the driver was looking for as he drove.