***Case Note: Due to requirements of contract renewal, this case is being released prior to obtaining a complete Police Accident Report or interview for Driver of V2. The reasons for the missing information are these; the case involves a local police vehicle and a drunk driver facing multiple charges. Due to the fact that a police vehicle is involved, the NJTR1 (PAR) has to be handled by a neighboring jurisdiction in order to avoid conflict of interest and the department handling the report has been very meticulous in their investigation. Also due to the investigation I was asked to wait to speak to the officer involved until a later date.

The crash occurred in the center of a two-lane non-divided roadway. There was one westbound and one eastbound lane. This was a straight, level bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 40 kmph (25 mph). It was early evening on a weekday. The road was dry and the sky was clear. There was no other traffic at the time and the crash was the result of a police pursuit. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, a 2003 Dodge Ram pickup with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane one. V1 was in fleeing police after being in two prior traffic crashes. V2, a 2001 Ford Crown Victoria four door police cruiser (K9 unit) with one human occupant and one canine occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane one. Pursuant to his duty, V2 pulled to a stop just over the centerline to block the progress of V1. V1 crossed the centerline in order to evade V2, striking V2 on the right side. V1 then skid 41.6m, striking a mailbox, to final rest.

V1, the 2003 Dodge Ram pickup, was driven by a 48-year-old male who reported contusion/bruise/abrasion to the face and was transported to the emergency room. He was apparently under the influence of alcohol (BAC test results pending) and traveling at a higher velocity while attempting to evade police when he struck V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “Other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped”. The Critical reason for the Critical Event was an illegal maneuver. V1 was also assigned the following contributing factors: “Recognition Factor: Preceding Argument”. Driver 1 had just been involved in a domestic incident, resulting in his flight from police. “Traveling too fast for conditions/Other”. Driver 1 was traveling at a high rate of speed on residential roads in order to evade police. “False assumption: Assumed that other driver would yield right of way”. Driver drove directly at V2 in hopes that V2 would yield the right of way. “Driver's aggressive acts: Speeding, Rapid/frequent lane changes/weaving, Ignoring traffic control devices”. During the course of the pursuit leading up to this crash V1 was observed doing all of the above actions. The reasons for the aggressive actions are Anger and Frustration. Driver 1 recently was arrested for theft from the work place and as a result fired. The loss of the job and subsequent arrest resulted in a domestic dispute with his wife and the police chase. During the course of the chase V1 struck a bicyclist and continued on to strike a motor vehicle while running a red light at a busy intersection before eventually striking V2. One other factor was “Inadequate/Incorrect Evasion: Chose inappropriate/unsuccessful evasive action”. V1 attempted to go around V2, when he should have yielded.

V2, the 2001 Ford Crown Victoria, was driven by a 26-year-old male who reported Elbow/Lower arm/Hand pain and was transported to the emergency room. Passenger1, a Canine officer of unknown age and unknown injuries, was transported to a local emergency veterinarian. V2 was stopped just over the centerline in an attempt to apprehend V1 when V1 struck him on the right side.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was “Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in opposite direction”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The associated factors coded to this vehicle were; Recognition Factors/Conversing Other. Driver 2 was talking on a police radio at the time of the crash. Also assigned, Emotional: work related stress/Required to work rotating shift schedule.