The crash occurred on a two-way, two lane rural road with a posted speed limit of 80 kmh (50 mph). The bituminous road was straight and level. Conditions at the time of the weekend afternoon crash were daylight, clear and dry.

V1, a 1996 Chevrolet Lumina, was traveling westbound on the road behind a passenger van, on his way from the beach to a campground. The driver of V1 decided to pass the van, within a legal passing zone for his lane. The driver of V1 was trying to catch up to his relative's vehicle, and was unaware that they (witnesses) were directly in front of the van. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

V1 changed lanes to the left, moving into the eastbound lane. Just as V1 started to pass, the van also began to move left intending to pass the witness vehicle in front of her. The witness stated that all 3 vehicles were traveling at the 80kmh (50 mph) speed limit, prior to the passing maneuvers.

The driver of V1 swerved to the left onto the unpaved gravel shoulder, successfully avoiding contact with the van. The left rear wheel of V1 contacted the loose gravel and the ditch on the left side and the driver lost control. The driver of V1 swerved to the right, crossed the eastbound lane and back into the westbound lane. V1 left the roadway on the right and crossed the gravel shoulder. The left front of V1 struck an embankment. V1 rolled 2-quarter turns to the left and struck the embankment with the top of the hood. V1 top left struck a 70cm diameter tree. V1 rotated 180 degrees clockwise and rolled back onto its wheels. V1 came to rest facing south on the right shoulder, 11 meters past the tree. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage.

V1, a 1996 Chevrolet Lumina 4 door, driven by a 24 year-old male who stated he was westbound on the road and traffic was slow. He saw an opening and pulled out into the eastbound lane to pass a van. His relative were somewhere up ahead. He didn't know that they were right in front of the van. Right when he was next the the van, it moved over left to pass the car. He swerved left and hit the gravel shoulder. H swerved back right and went off the road and hit the embankment. He rolled or rocked up and he doesn't know exactly what happened. The fully restrained driver, and the 7 year-old male in the second row seat on the right seat in a booster seat, were transported to a local trauma center.

The Critical Precrash Event was coded 'this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side'. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded 'overcompensation' V1 was most likely in the blind spot of the van when it began to move to the left. The witness observed the actions of V1 and the van in his rear view mirror, pulled over onto the right shoulder, and saw the crash sequence continue in front of him.

For the driver of V1, the impending problem of having to actually pass 2 cars was masked by the traffic flow, as the driver did not see the lead vehicle until he pulled out into the left lane. He also did not anticipate that the van might be passing, for the same reason.

The driver of V1, while unfamiliar with the road where the crash occurred, stated that he lives in a rural area and is very comfortable with passing slower vehicles, and does it on a regular basis.