Case #2006-45-058

The crash occurred on a north/south two-lane rural roadway. The road curved to the east (right) with a radius of 144 meters as it traveled northward toward a bridge over a creek. The curve ended 50 meters south of the bridge. The lanes were 3 meters wide and there were 45-centimeter shoulders on each side. The concrete bridge abutment began 90 centimeters east of the white line and was 82cm high and 25cm wide. Rectangular yellow and black signs marked the bridge. Conditions were daylight and dry on a weekday morning with a posted speed limit of 48kph (30mph). Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

Vehicle #1 was a 1999 Chevrolet Malibu traveling northbound. A witness told police that an unknown vehicle traveling southbound came across the bridge partially in the oncoming lane and Vehicle #1 veered right in an attempt to avoid a collision. The Malibu (V1) departed the right (east) side of the road and struck the bridge abutment with its front. After impact Vehicle #1 rotated clockwise 90-degrees and came to rest facing east across both lanes. Vehicle #1 was towed due to damage. The non-contact vehicle fled the scene.

Vehicle #1 was driven by a 54-year old female that was not belted with deployed frontal airbags. She was flown by helicopter to a local trauma center where she was hospitalized for several weeks. EDR was extracted from the vehicle and indicated a maximum longitudinal velocity change of 69kph (43mph). Unfortunately, the '99 model vehicle does not produce any pre impact information.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was too fast to be able to respond to the unexpected actions of others. Based on the EDR information she was traveling well over the posted speed limit and researcher believes a crash could have been avoided had she been proceeding at a slower speed. Associated factors included chose inappropriate/unsuccessful avoidance action. Too fast, reason unknown, was also included. The driver drove the roadway rarely and had operated the vehicle she was in only 2-5 times (it was a dealership loaner). She was wearing glasses to correct an unknown condition and was taking medications for high blood pressure and other unknown conditions.