This crash occurred at an intersection with five lanes of travel for each roadway. Both roads had two lanes in each direction with a two-way left turn lane in the center. This intersection was controlled by a traffic light without pedestrian crossing. The intersection was level asphalt. The roadway was wet from a heavy rain. The crash happens in the beginning of the week on a late afternoon.

V1, a 1991 Pontiac Grand Am was traveling north in lane 1. V2, a 1997 Chevrolet Pick-up was traveling east in lane 2. V3, a 2003 For F-250 was stopped in lane 3 of the westbound lane. As vehicle #2 sat waiting at the light to travel east vehicle #3 sat waiting to make a left turn to travel south. When the traffic light turned green for the east and westbound traffic a vehicle #1 was traveling towards the intersection from the northbound direction. The driver did not notice that the light had changed until she was too close and applying the brakes locked the front tires but the vehicle slid through the light contacting vehicle #2 at the left rear box side causing it to rotate clockwise to contact vehicle #3 on its left front corner. Vehicle #1 rotated clockwise to final rest in the intersection at a southeast direction. Vehicle #2 after contacting Vehicle #3 drove up into a parking lot to final rest. Vehicle #3 which had never moved stayed right at point of impact in the left turn lane. None of the drivers where injured. Vehicle #1 and vehicle #3 where towed from the scene due to damage vehicle #2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle #1 a 1991 Pontiac Grand Am was driven by a 41 year-old female that stated she is in good health and is taking no medications at this time. She stated that she is an in home nurse and was traveling from a client to the next clients home at the time of the crash. It started raining very hard, then it stopped as she came to the intersection. The light changed she put on her brakes and could feel the front end locking up and away she went. She slid into the intersection and hit the eastbound truck. Then it hit the westbound truck that was aiting to turn left. The guy traveling east was using his cell phone if he would have been watching the traffic and not talking he may have seen me sliding and stopped. He was last starting off from the light.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded: “this vehicle traveling crossing over (passing through) intersection”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded: “inattention”. The associated factors to this driver were that it was raining heavily at the time of the crash and that the driver was thinking about her next client and was inattentive to the driving at hand. This drive may have been fatigued from working with clients all day she has to lift them and move them around.

Vehicle #2 a1997 Chevrolet Pick-up truck was driven by a 50 year-old male that stated he is in good health and does not take any medications at this time and is not wearing corrective lenses. He stated that as he sat waiting for the traffic light to turn green he received a call on his cell phone from a jobber letting him know no deliveries were made today. The jobber had told him the driver was killed in a motorcycle crash earlier that day. The driver stated that during the course of the call the light turned green and the vehicle next to his started to make it's left turn so he just proceeded to start through the intersection. He did state that he did not check traffic before entering the intersection. He stated after being contacted on the left rear and rotating clockwise to contact vehicle #3 he stated his vehicle was still moving and headed towards the entrance of the parking lot so he just kept it moving until it was off the roadway.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V#2 was coded: “other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. The associated factor to this driver was his inattentiveness to the traffic. And the fact that he was talking on his cell phone at the time of the crash. If he had checked the traffic before entering the intersection he may have been able to avoid being hit.

Vehicle #3 a 2003 Ford F-250 was driven by a 49 year-old male that stated he is in good health and is taking no medications at this time. He wears corrective lenses for reading only and his job requires him to read a lot so when he goes to work he wears them all the time and he was on his way to work at the time of the crash. He stated that he just left home and was westbound on the roadwy, he was sitting stopped at the intersection waiting to turn left. There was a good amount of traffic coming when the light turned green. The truck coming eastbound started across then he heard the tire screech. He looked left to see vehicle #1 sliding north to hit the rifht side of the truck. It then rotated clockwise to hit the left front of his truck. Pushing him back and then bouncing off and driving over into the parking lot to final rest. The vehicle that started this all spun around clockwise to final rest and then we pushed that vehicle into the lot so we would not block traffic.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V#3 was coded: “not involved in first harmful event”. There were no associated factors to this driver. The witness stated that he was in his vehicle just behind V2. He stated that he noticed the driver on his cell phone as the light turned green. He also noticed the northbound vehicle traveling at a high speed and noticed that the vehicle applied its brakes and locked up the tires. He stated he never moved from his stopped position because of the speed of the northbound vehicle. He stated that the northbound vehicle contacted the right rear side of the eastbound vehicle and that vehicle then contacted the vehicle sitting in the left turn lane waiting to turn left.