This is a two-vehicle rear end crash that occurred in the westbound lane of a three-lane, two way roadway separated by a left turn lane. The lanes are separated by a painted centerline. This crash is intersection related. The intersection has one northbound and one south lane with a left turn lane separating the lanes. The intersection is controlled by a traffic light on colors that was functioning properly at the time of the crash. The posted speed limit for both roadways is posted 80 kph (50 mph). It was mid-day on a weekday, the roads were dry and the sky was clear.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Nissan Sentra 4 dr with one occupant, was traveling westbound in the number one lane approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 GMC Express passenger van with three occupants, was also traveling westbound ahead of V1 attempting to make a right turn to travel northbound at the intersection. The driver of V1 was distracted by an external noise. The driver attempted to locate the noise by looking in his left side mirror and rear view mirror. The driver then looked straight ahead and saw V2 slowing down to turn right. The driver applied the brakes and skidded for about 15 meters before the front of V1 struck the rear left corner of V2 as it just begun to make the right turn. V1 came to rest in the westbound lane near the east edge of the intersection facing west. V2 rotated clockwise and was able to come to a controlled stop to the north of the intersection off the east edge of the roadway facing north. V1 was towed from the scene; V2 was driven. The rear occupant in V2 was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1 and 80 kmph for V2.

A 27-year old male drove V1. The driver stated that he was traveling westbound at about 88 KPH (55 MPH) when he heard a loud noise from a car. He said he looked in his left side mirror and then looked in his rear view mirror to locate the source of the noise. He then looked straight ahead and saw V2 slowing down to make right turn at the intersection. He said that he was about 70 feet behind V2 when he saw it making the right turn. He then locked his brakes up and skidded and struck the rear of V2 just as it was making a right turn. The driver was on his way home from work after working for 6 hours the day of the crash. The driver is familiar with this roadway and his vehicle. The driver reported no illnesses or physical impairments. The driver slept for about 7 ½ hours the night before the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V1 was coded “other motor vehicle in lane-traveling in same direction while decelerating”. The Critical reason was coded “driver related factor-external factor”. The driver was distracted by an external noise just prior to the crash.

A 35-year old male drove V2. He said that he was traveling westbound and began to slow down to make a right turn to travel north. He said that just as he was slowing down, he heard tires skidding and then was hit from the rear. He said that after the impact, his vehicle rotated clockwise and was able to bring it to a controlled stop to the north of he intersection off the east edge facing north. He said that he did not see V1 prior to the crash. The driver said that light was green and he had his right turn signal activated just prior to making the right turn. The driver has been in town for the past two weeks and has driven this roadway 2-3 times before the crash during the past two weeks. The driver is in good health and has driven this vehicle for the past two weeks.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V2 was coded “this vehicle traveling-this vehicle decelerating". The Critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.