This two-vehicle crash occurred on a divided, straight roadway. The eastbound lanes have a 4.1% uphill grade and consist of three through lanes. There is a driveway on the right (south) side of this roadway. The speed limit on this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). It was dark with streetlights one at the time of the crash and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Cadillac Eldorado, was eastbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Cadillac Escalade, was eastbound in front of V1. V2 slowed down to turn right into the driveway. The front of V1 struck the back right corner of V2. V2 rotated clockwise and traveled to the southeast, up a 35% uphill embankment. V2 then rolled over to the right four quarter-turns back down to the roadway and came to rest on its wheels. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-five-year-old male, was traveling from his home to work. He was healthy and comfortable with his vehicle. He drives this route several times each month. This driver stated that he had five-and-a-half hours of sleep, had been awake for one hour and still felt tired when he began this trip.

The driver of V2, a forty-one-year-old male, was traveling from a doughnut shop to his friend's home. He was well rested, healthy and comfortable with his vehicle. This driver travels this route daily.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction while decelerating." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others." Associated factors include V1 speeding and the V1 driver's failure to look far enough ahead.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."