The crash occurred on a straight bituminous two lane undivided roadway with a posted speed limit of 72 KPH (45 MPH). The roadway had a -2.2% grade. The weather was clear, the roadway dry and it was daylight at the time of this weekday morning crash.

Vehicle 1, a 2001 Ford Taurus station wagon, was traveling north on the two-lane roadway. Vehicle 1 crossed into the southbound lane, off the left side of the roadway and down an embankment. Vehicle 1 struck several rocks with its left side, continued over a culvert pipe (undercarriage) and struck a 30 cm diameter pole with its front. Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest facing in an easterly direction. Vehicle 1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The Ford Taurus (Vehicle 1) was driven by a belted 48-year-old female, who was transported, treated and hospitalized due to injuries. She stated that she was on her way home from work. She was upset because of a physical altercation with a 19-year-old autistic male at work and was thinking about how she could have handled the situation differently. She indicated that she had avoided a squirrel that ran out in the roadway, but remembers nothing after that until after she hit the pole. She stated she was in fair health and wears bifocals for myopic (near-sighted) and hyperopic (far-sighed) conditions. She takes medications for emphysema, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and a heart defect.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle 1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was an unknown critical non-performance error, a driver related factor. This was chosen because the police on scene advised that the driver “was out of it”, possibly caused by medications or that she fell asleep (it was also discovered that she had worked the night shift and may have been fatigued). Medical personnel also indicated that she lost conciousness several times prior to arriving at the hospital. The driver had numerous medical problems and took several medications. It could not be determined what exactly caused the crash. Associated factors coded to this driver include the use of prescription medications for asthma and heart disease, non-prescription vitamins and aspirin, and vision impairment. Police did not consider either alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no tests.