This crash involving two vehicles occurred at 1050 hours. On a 5 lane divided roadway with a positive barrier. The speed limit for the highway is 96 kmph (60 mph). The road surface dry concrete and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V 1, a 2003 Mitsubishi Galant driven by a 19 year-old male was traveling north in the third lane of traffic. V 2, a 1998 Dodge Ram Pick up, driven by a 35 year-old female with one passenger was traveling north in the second lane. V 1 attempted to change into the second lane. The front of V 2 impacted the right side of V 1. This impact caused V 1 to rotate clockwise and depart the roadway to the right. The front of V 1 impacted a wall located east of the traffic lanes. The right front of V 2 impacted the right rear side of V 1 again. V 1 continued to rotate clockwise. The left rear corner of V 1 impacted the wall again until V 1 came to rest, facing southwest. V 2 came to rest partially on the shoulder of the highway and partially within the first lane of the highway. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. The driver of V 2 suffered minor injuries but refused treatment at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The pre-event movement for V 1 coded going straight, category this vehicle traveling over the lane line on right side of travel lane. Critical reason driver related factor " The critical pre crash event was coded this vehicle driving - over the lane line to the left. The critical reason for the critical event was coded "driver related factor "unknown reason for critical event". (no driver interview obtained, no reason for the lane change) Some friends and relatives on the scene picked up the driver. He refused to be interviewed at the scene and when contacted at a later time. A mechanic from a body shop was at the scene and assisted with the removal of the vehicle. The vehicle was inspected later that day at the body shop. The mechanic said he briefly spoke to the driver. The driver made conflicting statements to the mechanic. He stated among other things he was avoiding a crash with a semi-truck that had slowed down to a complete stop in his lane. He tried to avoid the collision by braking and changing lanes. The driver of V 2 did not talk about a truck or slowing traffic at all. The pre-event movement for V 2 coded going straight, category other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane same direction over left lane line. Critical reason not coded to this vehicle.