This single vehicle roll over occurred at a T intersection. This intersection is in a rural setting with one roadway running east to west and is a two-way, two lane, undivided, asphalt roadway. The roadway curves to the south with a radius of curvature of 592 meters and is level. On the south side of the roadway there is a steep vertical embankment. The north/south roadway forms the bottom of the T and is also a two-way, two-lane, undivided asphalt roadway. Approaching the intersection from the north, there is a slight left hand curve. There is a +7 % up grade with a super elevation down to the east of 7%. Traffic on the east/west roadway is controlled by stop signs. The posted speed limit on the north/south roadway is 35 mph (56 kmph). There is a warning sign prior to the intersection showing a T intersection with an advisory speed limit of 15 mph (25 kmph). There is a right hand curve prior to the intersection that was not a factor. The crash occurred during daylight with no adverse weather and good visibility.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Toyota pickup, was traveling southbound; it negotiated the various curves in the roadway as it approached the intersection. The vehicle failed to complete a left turn at the intersection as it ran off the right side of the roadway; the front of the vehicle struck the embankment and rolled over onto its left side as it returned to the eastbound lane. The vehicle came to rest on its left side facing east. The vehicle was towed from the scene. A witness to the crash was northbound when V1 sped past him. The witness knew V1 would not make the turn and watched in his rear view mirror as V1 struck the embankment and rolled over. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1 was a 54 year-old male who drives the route weekly and is familiar with the vehicle. There also was a 53-year-old occupant. The driver was arrested at the scene for a prior DUI. There was a warrant for his arrest. In this crash he was cited for “failure to control” and “driving on a suspended license.” He was transported to a local hospital for treatment and then taken to jail. It is unknown if the driver had been drinking. He was returning to his residence after a leisure trip to the mountains. He described is health as fair and has Hepatitis C. He does not work. He was conversing with the passenger at the time and admitted going to fast. The pre-event movement was coded “turning left.” The critical pre-crash event was coded “this vehicle traveling-off the edge of the road on the right side.” The critical reason was coded “too fast for curve/turn.”