This single vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane roadway, with one lane in each direction. This is a straight, uphill, bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 40 kph (25 mph). It had snowed the night and morning before the crash, the road was wet, it had been raining and the sky was cloudy. Traffic flow was moderate as it was ending the rush hour after dark.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Honda Prelude two-door couple with one occupant, was northbound in lane one. V1crossed a double yellow line and passed a vehicle on the left side at an intersection just south of the crash site. V1 was starting to past another vehicle on the right side when it ran off the right side of the road. V1 impacted a curb with its right front rim. V1 traveled 10 meters off the road and impacted a bus bench with its front. V1 traveled another 31.2 meters impacting a chain link fence with its front. V1 traveled along the fence for 5.5 meters where the fence ended. V1 continued to travel another 8.8 meters until impacting a wooden utility pole with its front. V1 rotated clockwise off the pole and came to rest on its wheels facing northeast with its front next to the pole. The vehicle was towed from the scene due to moderate frontal damage. The driver was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1.

V1, the Honda Civic was driven by a 21 year-old male who was in a hurry to get home because his probation stated he had to be home by 1900 hours and he was really worried he wouldn't make it. He stated he left a friends house at 1830 (crash time 1811) and was traveling 72 kph (45 mph). He was adjusting his CD player and was on his way home. He stated this was the first time on this road and did nothing to avoid hitting a pole. Tests for alcohol measured 0.244. Drug tests were negative. .

The critical pre-crash event was coded “this vehicle traveling-off the edge of the road on the right side”. The critical reason was coded “too fast for conditions”. It was dark, raining and streets were wet. The driver was in a hurry, passing other vehicles on the right and left and was internally distracted as he was adjusting the CD player. He was intoxicated and not familiar with the roadway.