The crash occurred at the intersection of two, two-way, two-lane urban side streets. One ran east/west, and the other ran north/south. It was a four-way intersection controlled on all sides by stop signs. The approaches to the intersection were straight and level as was the intersection itself. The speed limit on both roads was 48kmph (30mph). Conditions at the time of the crash were overcast with wet roads in the early afternoon on a weekday.

V1, a 1992 Buick Roadmaster Estate station wagon, was stopped at the stop sign heading northbound. V2, a 1996 Ford F-250, was eastbound approaching the intersection. As V1 proceeded into the intersection it was struck on the left front by the front of V2 as it passed through the intersection. Both vehicles came to rest in the intersection. V1 came to rest facing northeast and the V2 was facing east. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage while V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a belted, 42 year old female, who was transported to a local hospital for treatment. Her ten-year-old, belted male passenger was uninjured in the crash. She was on her way to the store for an “outing” with her son when the crash occurred.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded as other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors include that the driver was under some emotional stress due to a ten-year-old son with health issues. She was also being treated for depression and some other medical problems with prescription medicines. She did state in her interview that she and her son were “chatting” but it was not an involved conversation, more social than anything. Wet roads and a false assumption, assumed other driver would yield right of way, were also included.

V2 was driven by a belted, 38 year-old male, who was uninjured in the crash. He only gave a partial interview on scene because shortly after the researchers arrival the safety director for the company he was driving for told the driver not to speak with the researcher. His statement was not deemed very credible because he was being interviewed in the presence of a supervisor for his company.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded this vehicle traveling, passing through an intersection. The Critical Reason was coded as inadequate surveillance. The driver failed to look far enough ahead to either side while approaching the intersection. Associated factors in addition to the inadequate surveillance include an illegal maneuver as the driver ran the stop sign. Wet roads were also present and coded as an associated factor for this crash.