This two-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of a four-lane road and a two-lane road. The four lane road is undivided with two-lanes in either direction. This road is straight and constructed of concrete with no defects. The speed limit on the roadway is 56 kmph (40 mph). The road slopes downhill from the west. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one, a 2002 Kia Sephia was westbound in the second lane. Vehicle two, a 2005 Honda Accord was eastbound in the second lane. Vehicle one turned left at the intersection and the front of vehicle two impacted the left side of vehicle one. Vehicle one came to rest on the two-lane roadway. Vehicle two came to rest in the first lane facing east. Vehicle one was not towed due to damage. Vehicle two was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a seventy-year old female was heading home from the grocery store at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about ten minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that she had been thinking about going to church before the crash occurred. This driver also indicated that she did not see the other vehicle at all. This driver has a heart condition and is taking a lot of prescriptions medications. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a fifteen-year-old female was driving to pick up her grandmother at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about fifteen minutes at the time of the crash. This driver was talking to the passenger in a social conversation. This driver had been driving for about one year. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded: other motor vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction- over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.