This two-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours on a weekend afternoon. The crash occurred on a straight, level stretch of a five-lane, two-way, bituminous, east-west roadway during heavily congested traffic. The speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph) in both directions, and a two-way left turn lane separated eastbound from westbound traffic. There are private residential driveways along both sides of the road, and a T-intersection with a north-south roadway intersects the north curb line, just west of the crash scene. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse atmospheric conditions or roadway defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Toyota Previa minivan, was stopped facing eastbound in the two-way left turn lane, having previously attempted to turn left from southbound traffic at the nearby T-intersection. V1 was unable to complete the turn due to congested traffic, and was waiting in the two-way left turn lane to merge into eastbound traffic. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was exiting a private driveway at the south curb, and was attempting to turn left into westbound traffic. As V2 turned, the front of V2 impacted the front of V1. Both vehicles came to rest in the roadway near impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1 and 0 kmph for V2.

The 57-year-old female driver of V1 reported that she had only driven a few meters from her home. She stated that she was stopped and looking over her right shoulder at eastbound traffic, waiting to merge. She never saw V2 prior to the impact. The right front passenger of V1 reported that he saw V2 about to enter the roadway. He stated that he saw the driver of V2 look to his right, but not to his left prior to executing the left turn. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment, from driveway, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V1.

The 67-year-old male driver of V2 was leaving his residence on an errand. He reported that he is unemployed and that he is on disability due to heart disease. The driver stated that he looked both ways prior to making his turn, but did not see V1. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V2, and was coded: Driver-related recognition error, inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).