This two vehicle crash occurred shortly before noon in daylight hours on a clear day with no weather conditions affecting the drivers. The roadway surface is concrete, dry and level. The southbound 5 lanes divided was under construction. Construction barrels blocked Lane 1, and stop signs were placed on the west edge of the roadway and one on the center median. The east exit ramp from a highway that was under construction. The east traffic controlled by a warning sign for lane direction. The speed limit for both roadways is 72 kmph (45 mph).

Vehicle one (V 1) a 2006 Chrysler Town & Country Mini van driven by a 32 year-old male was traveling south in lane two. Vehicle two (V 2) a 2003 Ford F150 pickup driven by a 48 year-old male was traveling east on the off ramp approaching an intersection. As V 2 entered the intersection V 1 had failed to stop for stop sign and the front of V 2 collided with the right side of V 1. After impact V 1 rotated clockwise continuing south and coming to final rest facing northeast. V 2 continued east departing roadway to the left. The driver of V 1 had just purchased a new home in the area and was visiting it for the first time. At the time of the crash the driver of vehicle was thinking about how confusing the roadway was, and thinking about the new house. The driver of V 2 stated that he might have tried to steer to the right just a second before impact but he is not sure. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason was a driver related factor: inattention. The driver stated it was his first time on this road and he was thinking about his new home. An associated factor for V 1 was disregard of the stop sign.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street- across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.