A two-vehicle crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a divided nine-lane state highway. There were three through lanes and one left merge lane for northbound and three through lanes, one left turn lane and one right turn lane for southbound. This was a straight, downhill, bituminous roadway with a posed speed of 72 kmph (45 mph). It was late afternoon on a weekday at the start of rush hour and the road was dry and the sky was cloudy. Just past a four-leg intersection, traffic cones and a flashing merge to the left arrow closed the right three northbound lanes, so all traffic was merging left into lane four.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1993 four-door Nissan Altima with one occupant, was northbound in lane four going straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 two-door Pontiac Sunbird, stopped in front of V1 for traffic merging from the adjacent travel lane because of the construction zone. V2 had traveled through the four-leg intersection and stopped approximately 36.6-meters (120-feet) past the intersection in is travel lane. The driver of V1 applied his brakes and slid into the back of V2 with its front. Both vehicles came to rest at impact on their wheels facing northbound in lane four. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.

An 18-year-old male who just moved to this area from another state drove V1. He stated he was wearing his lap and shoulder belt and was not injured. He stated he was driving to a store from the bank and was looking at the traffic light to make sure it was still green. As he passed through the intersection he saw the cars were stopped and he stated he applied his brakes and skid into V2. V1 was driven from the scene with moderate damage to the front.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was “Other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped.” The Critical Pre-crash Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was driver related recognition factor, eternal distraction. He was looking at the traffic light instead of the vehicles stopping for the construction zone, an exterior distraction. Driver of V1 just moved to this state from another and is still unfamiliar with the area. He was sick with a cold the previous week. He has been driving one year and drives this roadway daily. It was the start of rush hour traffic and near a construction zone.

An 18 year-old female drove V2. She was driving to her Uncle's house from school to visit him. She stated she was wearing her lap and shoulder belt and was transported to a trauma center with minor injuries to her back. She stated that she had gone through the four-leg intersection and there were cones and a flashing left merge arrow to the right. She stopped and looked into her rearview mirror and observed V1 was not going to stop before he impacted the back of her vehicle. V2 was towed from the scene due to moderate back damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was “Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed.” The Critical Pre-crash Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. She stated she takes the medications Medroxyprogestrone, Percocet and Ibuprofen on a regular basis and was not sick at the time. She does not work and does works out four days a week in the weight room at school for 45 minutes.