This two-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours on a weekend. The collision occurred on a straight stretch of a north/south, seven-lane, two-way, undivided, dry, level, bituminous roadway. A two-way, left-turn-only lane separated northbound and southbound traffic, and private (business) driveways intersected both road edges. In the area of the crash, the speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph). At the time of the crash, there were no adverse atmospheric conditions and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Chevrolet Suburban, was traveling westbound in the first lane of a two-lane, two-way business driveway, approaching the intersection with the main roadway with the intention of turning left into southbound traffic. The EDR reading verifies that the vehicle was stopped 5 seconds prior to impact and was traveling approximately 19 kmph (12 mph) at impact. The air bags did not deploy at impact. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Chevrolet Malibu four-door sedan, was traveling northbound in the two-way left turn lane, approaching the driveway on its right. The EDR reading from this vehicle shows a travel speed of 81 kmph (50 mph) at 5 seconds before impact and a speed of 52 kmph (32 mph) at approximately 1 second prior to impact; the readout indicated that the brake switch was on. Traffic was stopped in the northbound thru-lanes, and V1 moved into traffic and stopped in the two-way left turn lane to await clear southbound traffic. The front of V1 impacted with the left side of V2. Both vehicles moved northwest to final rest in the turn lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 50-year-old male driver of V1 reported that he has received no formal driver training, but has been driving many years. He was in good health and alert at the time of the crash. Stopped northbound traffic partially blocked his view of V2's approach. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1 as a driver related factor: other decision error: (specified as: turned with obstructed view).

The 84-year-old female driver of V2 was on her way home from shopping. Her view of V1 was also blocked by stopped traffic in the northbound lanes. According to the police report, the driver was confused about which lane she was traveling in. The driver was unable to explain why she was traveling in the left turn lane, and may not have been aware that she was doing so. She reported (adamantly) to the researcher that she was traveling in the second northbound lane, not the left-turn lane. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from driveway, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor of an illegal maneuver maneuver was coded to V2. This driver intended to go straight while traveling in the (center) left turn lane.