An intersection related crash occurred at late morning hours in an urban residential location. The roadways were dry at the time of this incident. The Eastbound leg of the intersection had a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). All four legs of the intersection were straight & level and comprised of one travel lane in each direction with a center left turn lane. Traffic lights control travel through each of the four legs at the intersection. There are no sight line restrictions at this location and there were no adverse weather conditions.

Very little information was obtained as to factors leading up to the collision. No driver interviews were obtained, nor a copy of the police report or medical records. There were no known witnesses to the collision. Most information known about the crash is derived from the vehicle inspections and vehicle dynamics. There was no indication of vehicle deficiencies for any of the vehicle's from the vehicle inspections. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

Vehicle two (V2) was a brown 2000 Volvo tractor pulling a flat bed semi-trailer loaded with two large steel coils. V2 was approaching the intersection heading eastbound and swung wide to its left to make a right turn to head southbound. Meanwhile, vehicle one (V1), a white 2000 Dodge Intrepid four-door sedan, was traveling east approaching the intersection also in the same lane as V2. As V2 made its right turn at the intersection, the driver of V1 continued forward and V1 was impacted on the left side by the right side of V2's trailer just forward of the 4th axle. V1 was in V2's blind spot and was dragged forward several meters before the driver of V2 stopped his vehicle. Both vehicles came to rest next to each other at the southwest corner of the intersection.

A partial vehicle inspection for V1 was obtained at the scene of the collision. No information is available about the male driver and it is unknown if there were any additional passengers in the vehicle. Upon the researcher's arrival on-scene, the driver was not available for interview & had refused treatment for injuries. Based on the vehicle dynamics and lack of physical evidence, there was no indication that this driver made any avoidance actions prior to the crash. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling/ crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was assigned to V1 because V1 proceeded into the intersection with insufficient clearance. V1 imposed upon V2's travel and did not yield the right-of-way to V2 as it turned right. V1 also tried to pass V2 to the right within the same travel lane. It is surmised that the driver did this thinking that V2 was either: going to proceed straight; or, going to turn left instead of turning right when V2 swung to the left before it began it's turn. In either case this was a false assumption of the actions of V2 on this driver's part. The Critical Reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as driver decision error, false assumption of other's actions.

A vehicle inspection for V2 was obtained at the scene of the collision. No information is available about the male driver and it is unknown if there were any additional passengers in the vehicle. Upon the researchers arrival on-scene, the driver was not present. It is unknown if the driver was transported to a medical facility or if they were injured. Based on the vehicle dynamics and lack of physical evidence, there was no indication that this driver made any avoidance actions prior to the crash. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment/ from crossing street (across path). The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle. It was reasoned from the vehicle dynamics that the driver of V2 might not have been aware of V1's presence next to his trailer as he was making his right turn.