The crash occurs in the intersection of in the northbound lane of a three-lane, two-way roadway. There was one northbound lane, one southbound lane divided by a left-turn only lane. This was a straight asphalt roadway with a positive grade and a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). It was early evening on a weekend and the road was dry and the sky was clear.

V1, a 2005 Buick Rendezvous four door with two occupants was traveling southbound in the left turn lane approaching the intersection. V2, a 2003 Chevrolet Trailblazer four door with five occupants was traveling northbound in lane one, also approaching the intersection. The driver of V1 was talking to his mother on a cell phone trying to get directions. He attempted to turn left at the intersection but was struck by V2 who was going straight through the intersection. The driver of V2 stated that she applied the brakes and steered left trying to avoid V1. The front of V2 contacted the right of V1. V2 then spun around counter-clockwise and both vehicles came to final rest facing north in lane one. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Buick Rendezvous was driven by a 16-year old male who reported no injuries. He advised that he and the passenger had left home and was trying to find a store. He was on the phone with his mother trying to get directions. He advised that he had decelerated and did not see anyone coming so he proceeded to make the turn. He advised that he was traveling between 2-16 kmph (1-10 mph) when he made the evasive action of accelerating to try to avoid getting hit. He could not avoid the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V1 was this vehicle traveling: turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a driver related problem: internal distraction. Some associated factors for this driver is his lack of experience and the internal distraction of him talking on the phone. Another associated factor was that this was his first time on this road.

V2, the Chevrolet Trailblazer was driven by a 59-year old female who reported no injuries. She advised that they had just left her daughter's house and was on they're way to a football game. She advised that she was traveling between 67-80 kmph (41-50 mph) when she made the evasive action to avoid hitting V1. She was not able to avoid V1.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V2 was other motor vehicle encroachment: from opposite direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to this driver is that she was talking to a passenger prior to the crash.

.