This two-vehicle crash occurred on a three-lane roadway. This road is curved to the left for southbound traffic. The crash occurred at the intersection of a two-lane straight roadway. The southbound lane is curved to the left. The speed limit on the road is 56 kmph (35 mph). The two-lane road is controlled by a stop sign. This crash occurred at dawn with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Chevrolet Cavalier was exiting a private business drive on to the two-lane road. Vehicle two (V2), a 1988 Toyota Camry was southbound in the first lane. V1 stopped at the stop sign for one to two seconds. V1 turned left at the stop sign. The front of V1 impacted the front of V2. After the first impact V2 departed the roadway and impacted an embankment with its front plane. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-four year old male had just left a drive through after getting some breakfast. This driver was car-pooling with the three other occupants. This was not this driver's normal day to car-pool. This driver had only been driving for a few minutes at the time of the crash and has a suspended license. This driver stated that as he was stopped he saw V2 and could not believe how fast V2 got to where he was. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of V2, an eighteen-year old female was heading to school. This driver had only been driving for a few minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that the driver of V1 just pulled out in front of her. This driver indicated that she had just down-shifted to slow down for the slower speed limit in this area. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.