The crash occurred at 1400 hours on a straight, two-way, one lane, dry asphalt roadway. The roadway has one westbound and one eastbound lane that are separated by a painted centerline stripe. The roadway has a posted speed limit of 80 KMPH (50 MPH). The crash occurred on a clear day during the daytime hours. There were no sight line restrictions or obstructions that contributed to this crash.

V-1, a 2004 Ford F-150 XLT Lariat, driven by a 19 year-old male with one passenger was traveling eastbound in the eastbound lane when the driver apparently fell asleep. The vehicle drifted into the westbound lane. The vehicle eventually traveled off the left side (north) of the roadway. This woke the driver up and he began to steer the vehicle straight. The vehicle was off the roadway at this time. The vehicle then struck a wooden power pole. Pieces of the pole broke off and struck the top passenger compartment and the top of the tailgate of the truck. The vehicle came to rest off the left side (north) of the roadway facing east. The vehicle was towed due to damage no reported injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1.

The driver of V-1 stated that he remembers traveling eastbound and he closed his eyes for a moment. He then looked up and he was already off the roadway and the power pole was directly in front of him. The driver attempted to steer to the right and braked (unknown lock up) to avoid the pole. The driver said that his brother, the right front passenger, was sleeping during the trip. The driver apparently got out of school today at 1200 hours and went to San Luis (22 miles one way) to get something to eat. After eating, the driver then drove back home. The driver went to bed at 2400 hours the day before and woke up at 0600 hours. This is apparently a normal routine for the driver. The driver worked a total amount of 27 hours during the previous 7 days.

The pre event movement for V-1 coded going straight, The critical pre crash event was coded this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side . The critical reason was coded driver related factor-asleep, that is actually sleeping . (The driver drove for approximately 30 minutes after waking up at 0600 hours and attending school until 1200 hours to eat lunch with his brother. After lunch, the driver turned around and was driving on his way home. An associated factor for the driver was the distance he drover from school to arrive at his lunch location and the distance between the lunch location and his residence).