A three-vehicle crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a divided five-lane roadway. There are two through lanes for southbound and two through lanes and one left turn lane for northbound. This was a straight, level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). It was rush hour traffic on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was congested, with stop and go activity.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 two-door Honda Civic, with one occupant, was southbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Ford Aero star Minivan, with one occupant, was southbound in lane one in front of V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 2001four-door Nissan X-Terra, with one occupant, was southbound in lane one in front of V2. A non-contact vehicle in front of V3 was traveling southbound in lane one. The non-contact vehicle stopped for another non-contact pick-up truck in front of it that was turning into a driveway from lane one. V3 stopped, V2 was slowing down to stop and V1 was going straight. V1's front impacted to V2's back. V2 was pushed forward and its front impacted V3's back. V1 came to rest near impact on its wheels facing south in lane one. After the initial impact V2 was pushed forward and came to rest on its wheels facing southwest partially in lane one and partially on the curb. After its first impact V3 continued off the road and came to a controlled rest on its wheels facing south in a private lot. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 41 year-old female who reported no injuries. She advised that she had just dropped off her daughter at school and was heading to work while listening to the radio. She stated she was traveling 56 kmph (35 mph) and was looking towards her right at two pedestrians on the southwest corner of the intersection she just traveled through. When she looked forward again, she saw V2's brake lights and started to brake before impacting it. The vehicle was towed from the scene due to moderate frontal damage. The driver stated she works 40 hours a week and it is stressful. She has high blood pressure and takes an unspecified medication for it. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded "Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was a driver related recognition factor, external distraction.

V2, the Ford Aero Star, was driven by a 30 year-old female who reported no injures. She advised that she had just left home and was on her way to work. She stated she did not know what speed she was driving before the impact. The vehicle was towed due to moderate frontal damage. The Critical Pre-crash Event for vehicle two was coded "Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to the vehicle.

V3, the Nissan X-Terra, was driven by a 33 year-old male who reported no injures. He worked 50 hours the week before the crash. He slept 4 ½ hours the night before the crash, which is his normal sleep. Based on this information fatigue was considered a factor for this driver. He advised that he had left home and was on his way to work. He stated he was driving 56 kmph (35 mph), and then he stopped behind a non-contact vehicle, which had stopped for a truck turning right into a driveway. The vehicle sustained minor rear damage and the driver drove the vehicle from the scene. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V3 was coded "Other, not involved in first harmful event." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle.