This crash occurred on a clear weekday evening. The crash occurred on a gravel roadway that was straight and had been freshly graded. The pre-crash area had a slope of -2/122. The speed on the road was posted at 88kmph (55mph). As the vehicle traveled along the roadway it came over a crown on the roadway and descended a slight slope starting to rotate clockwise. As the vehicle rotated it traveled off road to contact the left front side of the vehicle to a tree causing it to go into a ¼ roll then contacting the A pillar area of the vehicle. The vehicle then rolled back down to its wheels for final rest. The driver of the vehicle was entrapped and had to be extricated by fire department personal. The driver was transported to the local trauma unit. The vehicle was towed due to damage.

The vehicle a 1995 Pontiac Grand Am was driven by a 16 year-old female that stated she is in good health and does not wear corrective lenses. She stated she is taking a medication for depression. She stated she was going to visit friends at the time of the crash. She had also stated she did not like the brakes on the vehicle She said that as the vehicle started to rotate she tapped the brakes and tried to counter steer out of the rotation. She stated that this did not help and the vehicle left the roadway to contact a tree then roll up on its side ¼ turn and contact anther tree at this time she was unconscious. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event to this vehicle was coded: this vehicle traveling, "off the edge of the roadway on the right side". The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was coded: performance error, "poor directional control (e.g., failing to control vehicle with skill ordinarily expected)". The associated factor to this driver was she had only had 8 months of driving and was not experienced in driving on gravel roads. And that her doctor had changed her medications recently. The side effects to this medication cause dizziness and drowsiness. There was also a speed factor.

The witness stated he was riding his mower straight towards the roadway at the time of the crash. He stated the vehicle was traveling at a high rate of speed. He also stated as the vehicle came over the crown in the roadway on lose gravel, which cause the loss of control.