This crash occurred in the late afternoon during daylight hours on a clear day with no adverse weather conditions present. The crash occurred on a level, asphalt 2 lane undivided roadway in a residential neighborhood. The traffic controls at the scene were a stop sign and a large warning sign for road construction. The speed limit is 40 kmph (25 mph).

Vehicle one (V 1) a 2002 Lexus RX300 SUV driven by a 63 year-old male was traveling west in the right lane of a 2 lane residential roadway; V1 made a controlled right turn around the warning sign, then veered to the left outside of the travel lanes. The front of V 1 struck the front of a legally parked vehicle a 1997 Honda Accord sedan on the west side of the roadway. V 1 was towed due to damage; the driver of vehicle refused transport. At final rest V 1 was facing north in the south parking lane up against the front of a parked vehicle. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 has Parkinson's disease. The driver is taking Requip and Coleg, also an unknown heart medication. The driver stated that he got 6 hours of sleep last night due to being awakened early by the dog. At this time the driver went to work. Some unknown time later, the driver left to go out to the Lexus dealership to purchase V 1, which they had been leasing. The driver left the dealership in the mid-afternoon hours feeling fine; the crash occurred at about 25 minutes later. The driver had taken his medication that day as usual. The driver stated that he might have fallen asleep and drifted off the roadway. During the interview the driver showed no signs of being tired, however he had the shaking hands common with persons afflicted with Parkinson's disease.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded as a driver related factor: poor directional control (e.g., failed to control vehicle with skill ordinarily expected).