This three-vehicle crash occurred during daylight hours at a four-way intersection, which was not physically divided. The east/west roadway consisted of four lanes, which were straight and level. In addition, the eastbound lanes had an “island” to form an exit ramp for the southbound traffic. The north/south lanes consisted of two lanes. The northbound lane at the southern end of the intersection had a right curve and a slight uphill grade, whereas the northern section was straight and level. This intersection was controlled by light signals for all directions of travel except for the exit ramp, which had a yield sign. The posted speed limit for the east/west roadway was 65kmph (40mph), and the speed limit for the north/south roadway was 48kmph (30mph). The bituminous roadway was dry, and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Freightliner school bus, was traveling west on the roadway in lane two, attempting to make a left turn at the intersection during a steady green light. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Jeep Liberty, was traveling east on the roadway in lane one, intending to continue straight through the intersection, also with a steady green light. Vehicle three (V3), a 2000 Ford Expedition, was stopped in lane one at a red light in the northbound lane. As V1 attempted to make the left at the intersection, the front of V2 contacted the right front of V1. After the initial impact, V1 continued to travel south when it contacted the front of V3. Vehicle one continued to travel south when it drove up on the curb before striking a tree. This is where vehicle one came to final rest, partially off of the roadway, facing south. When the Jeep contacted the school bus, the vehicle was forced to spin clockwise approximately 90 degrees where it came to final rest in the eastbound roadway facing south. After the second impact between the bus and the Ford Explorer, the Ford was dragged along with the bus rotating the vehicle clockwise approximately 90 degrees. Vehicle three came to final rest shortly thereafter in the northbound lane facing east. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a 72 year-old male, suffered possible injuries as a result of the crash and was taken to a nearby hospital for treatment. No other passengers were on the bus when the crash occurred. The driver of this vehicle refused to answer any questions related to the crash. For this reason, it is unknown whether any fatigue or health related issues were contributing factors.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was: “this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection”. The Critical Reason was coded as: “unknown recognition error”. Because very limited information was available, no other associated factors could be coded to vehicle one.

The driver of V2, a 55 year-old female suffered incapacitating injuries as a result of the crash and was flown to a trauma center for treatment. There were no other passengers in the vehicle when the crash occurred. For legal reasons, this driver's attorney advised her not to answer any questions at this time concerning the details of this crash. For this reason, it is unclear whether any fatigue or health issues were contributing factors.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was: “other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction, over left lane line”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Since no additional information could be obtained, no associated factors could be coded to the driver of this vehicle.

The driver of V3, a 70 year-old male, did not suffer any injuries as a result of the crash and did not require any medical attention. There were two other passengers in the vehicle when the crash occur, none of whom were injured. A partial interview was obtained from one of the passengers of this vehicle while on-scene. He claimed that they were at a complete stop at the red light, waiting for the light to change. He stated that he saw the bus turn in front of the Jeep. The bus then continued forward striking their vehicle, dragging them backwards before coming to final rest. This passenger did not believe any fatigue or health related issues contributed to them being struck.

There was no Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle because it was not involved in the first harmful event. For this reason, no Critical Reason could be coded to this vehicle, nor were any associated factors.