A two-vehicle daytime collision occurred during the noon lunch hour on a weekday. The collision occurred heading north on an urban five-lane, two-way, roadway. In the northbound precrash travel area the roadway is divided with trees in the center lane area with two northbound travel lanes that curve to the right. Then, just prior to where the crash happened, the trees end and it turns into an undivided five-lane roadway with a center left turn lane for northbound traffic. Adjacent to the number one travel lane is a parking lane with parking spaces along the east side of the northbound travel lanes. The pre-crash roadway for both vehicles is level and concrete paving. The roadway has a speed limit of 56 Kmph (35mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a red 1995 Toyota Corolla sedan, was parked in the parking lane. Vehicle two (V2), a white 1993 Subaru Impreza wagon, was traveling north in lane one while negotiating a right hand curve. V1 entered the travel lane that V2 was traveling in to make a U-turn. As V1 entered the travel lane, V2 began to change lanes to the left to avoid the crash but V1 had already initiated his U-turn. The left side of V1 impacted with the front of V2. Both vehicles rotated counter-clockwise together to final rest near the middle of the trafficway. V1 came to rest facing south and V2 came to rest facing north/west near the center left turn lane. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 32-year-old male, who stated to the investigating officer that he looked for traffic before pulling out of the parking space, but he did not see V2. It is likely that vehicles parked behind his vehicle along with the right road curvature created a sightline problem for viewing V2's approach. The NASS researcher was unable to interview this driver so many factors are unknown.

The driver of V2 was a 53-year-old female who was taking her dog to the dog park for this trip. She had some concerns in her life because after taking her dog to the park, she was going to take him to be put to sleep and was sad about this. As V1 entered her travel lane, she attempted to avoid the collision by changing lanes to the left and braking but there was no way to completely avoid it. Both witnesses listed on the police report stated that V1 pulled out in front of V2.

The pre-event movement for V1 was coded: leaving a parking position. The critical pre-crash event was coded: this vehicle traveling/ over the lane line- on left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical event was assigned to this driver as a driver recognition factor: Inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see).

The pre-event movement for V2 was coded: negotiating a curve. The critical pre-crash event was coded: other vehicle encroachment: from a parking lane. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle.