A single-vehicle collision occurred shortly after noon in daylight hours. The collision occurred on a rural two-way, two-lane undivided roadway, off the left side of the roadway. The pre-crash roadway is a slight downhill grade, and straight with bituminous paving. The weather was clear and the roadway was dry. The roadway has a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Toyota Scion, was traveling northbound in lane one. There was an uninvolved pickup backing out of a driveway on the left side of V1's travel lane, but the driver of the pickup indicated he stopped at the end of his driveway when he observed V1 approaching at a high rate of speed. Vehicle one steered right as an avoidance maneuver to the pickup that had already stopped, then the driver of V1 overcompensated to the left, and began to yaw travel over to the left and then off roadway via the left shoulder. As V1 went off the travel lanes onto the shoulder it encountered a V ditch for drainage. The driver attempted to steer right to get back on the road. The left side rear door impacted a low shrub & mailbox just before a private driveway, and then vehicle one went up in the air rolling to the left and coming to rest on the roof facing southeast. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1, is a 16-year-old male, was underage and his parents refused for him to be interviewed. The majority of his pre-crash factors are unknown; however some factors can be surmised. According to the medical record, there was no indication of any preexisting illness, medical conditions or medications the driver had been taking. The driver stated in the medical record that he was traveling at 56 kmph (35 mph) and swerved to miss a truck. The driver could not have been licensed to drive for more than 7-months based on his birth date; therefore, inexperience is considered a factor for this driver. The investigating officer indicated that the driver was traveling at an unsafe speed and also above the posted speed limit as contributing factors to the crash. The length of yaw marks and physical damage to the vehicle supported this conclusion. The reason this driver was traveling above the posted speed limit is unknown. Based on the vehicle dynamics & witness observations, the driver of V1 observed the non-contact vehicle in its driveway; however, he failed to realize that it had stopped in the driveway misjudging its speed. Due to his travel speed and inexperience, the driver was unable to maintain control of his vehicle as he over-reacted to the situation he perceived. He could not maintain control of his vehicle and overcompensated in his steering to the right as he tried to return to the roadway and induced a rollover.

The critical pre-crash event for this vehicle was coded as: Other vehicle encroachment: from driveway, intended path not known. The critical reason was coded as a driver related factor: Overcompensation.