This is three-vehicle crash occurred on a five-lane asphalt roadway during heavy rush-hour traffic. The westbound roadway is straight and level. The speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred 100 meters prior to an intersection with a traffic-control light. It was daylight with no adverse weather conditions present.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Dodge Ram pickup was westbound in the second lane when it impacted the rear plane of vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Chevy S-10 pickup. The front-end plane of V2 then impacted the rear plane of vehicle three (V3), a 2003 Volkswagen Passat that was stopped in the second lane. All vehicles came to rest at the impact location. V2 was towed due to damage. V1 and V3 were driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-five year old male was test-driving the truck after completing repairs to the cruise-control device. He had driven the truck to the outside of town to get it up to speed and was returning to his work place when the crash occurred. This was the first time he had driven this vehicle. He stated that there were ten cars ahead of him from the stop light ahead and that all traffic kept slowing then speeding up again. He had slowed then sped up when he realized V2 had stopped completely. He applied his brakes but could not stop in time and skidded into the back of V2. This driver had been driving for almost one-half hour at the time of the crash.

The driver of V2, a twenty-one year old female stated she had stopped completely in the second lane waiting for traffic to continue forward and that there were seven to ten vehicles in front of her prior to the traffic light. She had been talking to the two other occupants of her vehicle when she heard screeching of tires and looked in her rear-view mirror to see V1 run into the back of her vehicle. Her vehicle was pushed into the back of V3. This driver was taking Nexium, Albuterol and Flovent as medications.

The driver of V3, a fifty-one year old female was not interviewed. There is no known pre-crash information about this driver.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.