This two-vehicle crash took place late in the evening on a weekend on a north/southbound expressway with a posted speed limit of 80 kmph (50 mph). The weather was clear, the asphalt surface was dry, and the roadway was level. This particular section of roadway was divided by a raised concrete barrier with two lanes in each direction. Both vehicles were traveling northbound when the crash occurred.

Few details are known about this crash due to the fact that driver of V1 fled the scene, and that only a partial interview was obtained from the driver of V2. While at the crash scene, the researcher had very little time with and very little cooperation from the driver of V2. Further attempts to contact this driver (mailing a letter, visiting the address listed on the PAR) were unsuccessful. V1 was classified as a hit-and-run vehicle. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 1999 Honda Accord driven by a 21-year-old male, was traveling northbound in lane 2 when his vehicle was lightly struck on its right rear quarter panel. The driver claimed that this impact caused him to lose control of his vehicle and he skidded to the left and struck the concrete divider with the front left of his vehicle. This impact redirected V2 to the right and it crossed both lanes of travel before striking the concrete barrier on the right side of the roadway. V2 came to final rest at the base of an exit ramp. The driver stated that he was on his way home from being "in town." He did not disclose the purpose of this trip but said that it was not work-related. Although the driver stated that he was quite alert and feeling fine, he seemed disoriented and stated that he thought that "this" (the crash) was very "funny." He asked that he have his photograph taken standing next to his crashed vehicle. The police had very little interaction with this driver.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V1 was: "This vehicle traveling over the lane line on the left side of travel lane." The Critical Reason for Critical Pre-Crash Event was coded as "Type of driver error unknown" due to the lack of interview.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V2 was: "Other motor vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane over right lane line." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to this driver.

Emergency medical services were dispatched to the scene but the driver of V2 refused to be evaluated for injuries and claimed not to be hurt. Vehicle 2 was towed from the scene due to vehicle damage.