This two-vehicle collision occurred at the intersection of two one-way city streets controlled by a colored signal with pedestrian controls. The intersection is one of four intersections for what are actually two divided city streets, but each intersection only involves one-way traffic. Both roads are straight, level, and paved with bituminous asphalt. The speed limit for both roads is 56 kph (35 mph). At the time of the crash there was full cloud cover but no precipitation.

Vehicle one, a 1995 Honda Civic was southbound in the second lane. Vehicle two, a 1997 Pontiac Grand Am was westbound in the second lane. Vehicle two entered the intersection just before vehicle one did, and the front of vehicle one struck the right rear of vehicle two. This impact caused vehicle two to spin clockwise, although how far is unknown. Vehicle one was not towed but vehicle two sustained damage to the rear axle and was towed due to the damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a sixty-two year old female was heading from home to go shopping. This driver had been driving for about fifteen minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that she had the green light, but could not provide any more details than this fact. It is unknown why this driver did not see the red light. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road several times a month.

The driver of vehicle two, a fifty-three year old female was on the way to a baseball game with her two passengers. This driver had been driving for about one hour and forty-five minutes at the time of the crash. This driver indicated that she was talking about the game with the passengers as they were passing through the intersection. This driver was taking an allergy eye drops as medication. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road rarely.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as “this vehicle traveling, crossing over [passing through] intersection”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to this vehicle and was coded as “driver related factor, unknown recognition error”. The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “other vehicle encroachment: from crossing street, across path”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “not coded to this vehicle”.