This two-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours on a weekday morning. The crash occurred at the four-leg intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway. Both roadways are five-lane, two-way, straight, level, bituminous roadways with a 56 kmph (35 mph) speed limit in all directions. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light traffic signal. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions, and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was stopped in the third lane, facing west at the intersection, waiting to turn left into southbound traffic. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Toyota RAV-4 compact SUV, was traveling eastbound in the second lane and approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. As V1 made its turn, the front of V1 impacted the front of V2. The vehicles rotated towards each other and the right side of V1 contacted the left side of V2 in a side-slap configuration. The vehicles separated and came to rest in the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 72-year-old female driver of V1 reported that she is in fair health, and although she is elderly and has carpal tunnel syndrome, she takes no medications. Her driver's license has a restriction for corrective lenses, and she was wearing prescription bifocals during the crash. As she waited at the intersection, she saw a vehicle in the first eastbound lane come to a stop, so she began her turn as the tri-light turned to the yellow phase. She never saw V2 before the impact. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related recognition error, inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

The 76-year-old male driver of V2 refused to be interviewed. He reported to police that he saw V1 waiting to turn as he approached the intersection. When V1 began its turn, he applied the brakes, but was unable to stop in time. Inspection revealed that all four tires on V2 were under-inflated. The driver of V2 suffers from heart disease and depression, and takes Nexium. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment - from opposite direction over the left lane line. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.