The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a four-lane roadway divided by double yellow lines (two lanes in each direction). This was a straight, bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 48 kmph (30 mph) and an uphill slope of 7 percent in the southbound direction. It was mid-afternoon on a weekday, the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was busy in this shopping district.

V1, a 1995 Mercury Sable four-door sedan, was driven by a 74-year old male with a 46-year old female passenger. He was traveling in the southbound lane 2 at a speed of approximately 40 kmph (25 mph). He had just left the office a few minutes north of the accident and was on his way to the bank when the crash occurred. V2, a 1998 Volvo S70 four-door sedan driven by a 17-year old male, was stopped in the northbound lane 2 waiting to turn left. The driver of V2 initiated a left turn, attempting to enter the exit driveway of a strip mall, nine meters south of the entrance driveway. As V2 turned, the front right and center of V1 struck the right front of V2. The driver of V2 was not injured or transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The surrogate driver interviewee for V1 stated that her brother was traveling to the bank from her office, a few blocks away, and had left her office only moments before the crash. She stated that the driver of V1 was southbound in lane 2 at a speed of 40 kmph (25 mph). He did not have his cell phone and was not conversing with his passenger as she was going through the banking items. She also stated that her brother did not have time to attempt avoidance maneuvers. Both occupants were transported due to injuries.

The driver of V2 stated that he was attempting to turn left into the driveway so he could turn around. He had just left the shoe store about a mile away and was headed home in the wrong direction. The driver of V2 also stated that he had never been on that road and was driving on a provisional license.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "Other vehicle encroachment from the opposite direction over the left lane line." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle and no associated factors were coded to the driver of V1.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason was "inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)." Associated factors coded to the driver of V2 include driver inexperience and unfamiliarity with the roadway.