This two-vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane roadway. This road is straight and uphill. This road is controlled by a stoplight at a "T" intersection. The speed limit on the roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred at noon on a sunny day.

Vehicle one, a 1997 Ford F150 was southbound in the first lane. Vehicle two, a 1997 Plymouth Voyager was stopped at the light. The front of vehicle one impacted the rear of vehicle two. Both vehicles came to rest near the point of impact. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a fifty-three year old male was heading to a friend house after picking up some food at a fast food restaurant. This driver had been driving for about twenty minutes at the time of the crash. As this driver approached the intersection he became distracted with a person playing basketball to his left. This driver was also holding his drink in his right hand. This driver also indicated that due to the time of the crash and the slope of the road, the sun was in his eyes. This driver was taking Tylenol, Lipitor and an unknown high blood pressure medicine at the time of the crash. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a forty-two year old female had left church and was heading home. This driver had driving for about thirty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver had been stopped at the light for some time. This driver was taking Afrin as a medication. This driver indicated that she was looking in her rear view mirror before the crash but was unable to do anything to avoid. This drive drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to vehicle one and was coded as a driver related factor: external distraction.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was not coded to this vehicle.