The two-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of two two-lane roadways. The east-west road is straight and uphill roadway with no defects. The north-south road curves to the right with a radius of 188m and a super elevation of 4/122 cm. The posted speed limit for both roadways was 72 kph (45mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions present at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one, a 2003 Ford Expedition was traveling eastbound in the first lane. Vehicle two, a 1989 Dodge Dynasty was traveling southbound in the first lane. Vehicle one attempted to pass through the intersection. As vehicle one entered the intersection the front of vehicle two contacted the right side of vehicle one. Post-impact, vehicle one rotated counterclockwise and came to rest off of the roadway in the southeast corner of the intersection. Vehicle two rotated clockwise and came to rest in a ditch off of the roadway on the southeast corner of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a sixty-five year-old female was heading home from shopping. This driver had been driving for over one hour at the time of the crash. This driver indicated that she was stopped at the stop sign and looked both ways before entering the intersection. This driver stated that she never saw the other vehicle. She advised that she was stopped for 5-10 seconds prior to the crash. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a thirty-four year-old female was not interviewed. Per this driver's medical record, this driver was taking Wellbutrin XL as a medication.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded “this vehicle traveling: passing through [crossing over] intersection”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to vehicle one and was coded “driver related factor: inadequate surveillance, looked but did not see”. The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded “other vehicle encroachment: from crossing street, across path”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “not coded to this vehicle”.