This two-vehicle collision occurred on a weekday during daylight. The crash occurred on a six-lane, two-way bituminous roadway (divided by a two-way left turn lane) near the intersection of a private drive. Traffic coming from the private drive is controlled by a stop sign. The main roadway is designated a 56 kmph (35 mph) zone; there is no statutory limit for the driveway traffic. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions, and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was traveling westbound and attempting to turn left out of the private drive. Vehicle two (V2), a 1991 Nissan Pathfinder SUV, was traveling northbound in the third lane, passing the private drive on its right. In the two-way left turn lane, there were southbound vehicles stopped waiting to turn left into the private drive. V1 intended to turn left, but instead turned right and then attempted to turn left behind the stopped vehicles, in effect making a U-turn. As V1 crossed the third lane, the front of V2 impacted the left side of V1. V1 deflected right, crossed all southbound lanes, and departed the road over the west curb, damaging its left front wheel. V1's left sideswiped along a small tree before its front collided with a brick wall, bringing V1 to a stop. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 71-year-old female driver of V1 has a restriction for corrective lenses on her license, but reported that she recently has LASIK surgery and no longer needs glasses. She is planning to have the restriction removed when she renews her license. She had 6 hours of sleep the night before, which is her normal sleep pattern. She visits this shopping center on a monthly basis. She was running errands that day to prepare for her vacation that she was taking starting the next day. As she waited to turn left, she watched another vehicle execute the improper left turn ahead of her, first turning right and then making a U-turn behind the stopped southbound turn lane. She reported that she did not see V2 prior to making the turn. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the left side. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1 was coded: Driver related recognition error, Inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look or looked but did not see).

The 23-year-old male driver of V2 was on his way to the gym at the time of the crash. He is in good health and was rested at the time of the crash. He reported that he saw V1 execute a right turn and assumed that was V1's intention. He was surprised when V1 attempted to turn left across his lane and could not avoid the crash despite activating the brakes and steering left. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane (same direction) - over right lane line. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.