This crash occurred on a two-lane undivided east/west roadway near a T-intersection with another two-lane undivided roadway. There was no traffic control device on the east/west roadway, but the side street was controlled by a stop sign. The eastbound roadway had a downhill grade of 3 percent while the westbound roadway had an uphill grade of 3 percent. The posted speed on the east/west roadway was 72 kmph (45 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday evening while still daylight. The weather was clear and the roadways were dry.

Vehicle #1 was a 1993 Ford Ranger pickup driven by a 17-year old male. V1 was traveling eastbound approaching the T-intersection. Vehicle #2 was a 2004 Buick Rendezvous sport utility vehicle that was traveling westbound, approaching the same intersection. Vehicle #3 was a 2004 Cadillac Escalade sport utility vehicle that was stopped facing south on the intersecting roadway. As V1 neared the intersection, a non-contract vehicle that had been traveling in the same direction in front of V1 decelerated and then stopped, intending to turn left onto the side street. The driver of V1 began to decelerate, swerving from side to side. At the last moment, the driver of V1 steered to the left and entered the oncoming lane, where it struck V2 head-on. V1 then rotated counterclockwise, coming to final rest facing southwest. V2 rotated clockwise and struck V3, which was still stopped in its lane of travel. The drivers of V1 and V2 were transported to an area trauma unit due to injuries. Both V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage. V3 and all occupants were released from the scene. There were no injuries and minor damage to V3. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 and his mother were interviewed after the crash. Since he was on pain medication due to his injuries, the mother wanted to be present for the interview. The driver of V1 reported that he had been in good health and was not taking any medications prior to the crash. He also stated that he did not wear corrective lenses. He reported that at the time of the crash, he was on his way to a video store in the area. He stated that as he traveled east on the roadway, he noted the vehicle in front of him had stopped very fast to make a left turn. He claimed that he felt his brakes were not working like they should. His mother stated he panicked and did not know which way to go and he steered left. His mother also stated that she and the driver's father had passed V1 just seconds before the crash. She thought that their presence might have distracted the driver of V1. She also reported that V1 is new to the driver and was a stick shift vehicle.

Vehicle #2 was driven by a 43-year old female who reported that she was in good health. She stated she had taken a muscle relaxant 11 hours before the crash. She also stated that she wore corrective lenses for nearsightedness. At the time of the crash, she was leaving her place of work and was on her way to a friend's house. She reported that she rarely travels this roadway. She stated that she saw V1 swerving from side to side and that she had slowed, but V1 crossed the center line and there was no place to go. There was a vehicle stopped to turn left and a vehicle was stopped on the side roadway waiting to turn. She reported that after the impact, she couldn't remember anything.

A 43-year old female drove V3. She stated that she was advised not to speak to the researcher or be involved with this research in any way. She also refused a vehicle inspection. She would not say who advised her to refuse to participate in the study.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded - this vehicle traveling over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was incorrect evasive action. Associated factors coded to this driver include an exterior distraction, traveling too fast, poor directional control, being in a hurry to get to the video store to get a new game, and driver inexperience. Not only was the driver of V1 a new driver (had only been driving for 8 months), he was new to driving a stick shift. It was possible that he pushed the clutch in rather that the brakes.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded - other motor vehicle encroachment form opposite direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to this driver include the use of a prescription medication, unfamiliarity with the roadway, and traveling too fast. The EDR revealed that 4 seconds prior to the crash, V1 was traveling at 55 mph. The posted speed limit was 45 mph.

No Critical Pre-crash Event and no Critical Reason were coded to V3 because it was not involved in the first harmful event. This driver refused an interview and vehicle inspection. No associated factors were coded to this driver.

The witness to this crash stated he was traveling east on the roadway in front of V1 and had turned on his left turn signal and slowed to a stop. As he waited for traffic to clear he noted two pickup trucks coming down the roadway behind him. He noted the red truck (V1) was swerving from side to side. He braced for the impact and then saw V1 cross the centerline and strike V2 right next to his driver's window. As the vehicles separated from each other, the second truck drove right between the two vehicles as they went to final rest. The second truck never stopped to see if it could help or if it was involved.