The crash occurred in the early afternoon on a weekend in a T intersection in the northbound lane of a 3 lane, 2 way, straight bituminous roadway with the middle lane being a left turn lane. The north-south 3 lane road had a posted speed limit of 48kmph (30mph) and intersected with a 3 lane bituminous roadway coming in from the west consisting of 1 westbound lane, an eastbound left turn lane and an eastbound right turn lane. Both roadways were wet and it was raining. The north-south roadway was not controlled but the eastbound traffic was controlled by a stop sign. Traffic flow on the north-south roadway was heavy at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1997 Plymouth Voyager minivan driven by a 47-year-old male, was northbound in lane 2 of the north-south roadway intending to turn west at the T intersection. V2, a 1993 Dodge Dynasty 4 door driven by a 45-year-old male, was southbound in lane 1 of the same roadway. V3, a 2003 Honda Pilot SUV driven by a 52-year-old female, was eastbound, stopped in the left turn lane, of the east-west roadway. All 3 drivers were alone. V1 decelerated almost to a stop and began to turn left at the intersection. As he did so, v3 inched forward to get a better view of the northbound traffic. V2, front, contacted v1, right. The impact pushed v1 to the left where it impacted the front of v3 as it sat stopped in the left turn lane with its left side. All three drivers were alone in their vehicles. At final rest v1 was facing northwest in lane 1 of the westbound roadway, v2 was facing south southeast in lane 2 of the north-south roadway and v3 was still facing east in the left turn lane where it had been sitting. V1 and v2 were both towed due to damage. None of the 3 drivers were injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A complete vehicle inspection and driver interview was obtained for v1. The driver stated that as he was preparing to make his left turn he thought he had enough time. As he started his turn he was watching v3 because it had inched forward and he thought it might be turning left. He swung wider around v3 than he had originally intended and took more time to complete his turn. He was looking at his turn destination and never saw v2 hit him. He then was pushed to the left side where his vehicle struck v3 and v1 bounced to final rest. He never took any evasive actions.

The Critical pre-crash event for v1 was turning left at intersection and the Critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was the external distraction of v3's movements. Some contributing factors on the part of the driver of v1 include the heavy traffic flow, his concentration on the movements of v3 and the combination of rain and wet roads.

A complete vehicle inspection and driver interview was obtained for v2. The driver of v2 stated that he had just gotten off work and was going home to meet some people who were going to help him move. He was traveling just over the speed limit and was anxious about the impending move. He saw v1 coming at him but was surprised to see him attempt to turn left. He tried to brake and steer left but could not avoid v1.

The Critical pre-crash event for v2 was Other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction-over left lane line and the critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle. Some contributing factors on the part of the driver of v2 include his speed, the heavy traffic, his concentration on a future event, the wet road and rain.

A complete vehicle inspection and driver interview was obtained for v3. The driver stated she was going to her office to some work but was trying to avoid all the traffic left over from a recent parade so she took a back way through town. She had not tried to negotiate this intersection before from the west and stopped in the left lane at the stop line. She could not see to right due to some trees and so inched forward almost to the edge of the north-south road so she could see the northbound traffic. She paid no attention to v1 and was still looking to the right when she felt the impact of v1 against the front left of her car. She was stopped at the time of the impact.

The Critical pre-crash event for v3 was Other - not involved in the first harmful event and the Critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle. Contributing factors for the driver of v3 include her unfamiliarity with the roadway, her unease with intersection and its view to the right and the heavy traffic.

The researcher noticed that vehicles seemingly familiar with the same left turn lane as v3 did not stop even with the stop sign and routinely stopped at the edge of the north-south roadway to be able to see to right before making their turns.