This is a three-vehicle rear end crash that occurred in the number one southbound lane of an undivided two-way, five-lane roadway. There are two southbound and two northbound lanes separated by a continuous left turn lane. This crash is intersection related. The posted speed limit for the roadway is posted 64 kmph (40 mph). It was a late afternoon on a weekday, the roads were dry and the sky was clear. Traffic at the time was congested at the traffic light.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1988 Toyota Celica 2-door convertible with one occupant, was traveling southbound in the number one lane attempting to change into the number two southbound lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1988 Toyota Pickup with two occupants, was stopped in the number one southbound lane behind Vehicle three (V3). V3, a 1993 Nisan Sentra 2-door with one occupant, was stopped behind several cars for the traffic light ahead. V1 was attempting to change lanes to the left before it's front impacted with the rear of V2. The impact forced V2 into the rear of V3. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. V3 was removed from the scene on it's own power. There were no injuries reported by any of the driver's or passengers involved. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

A 25-year old male drove V1. He said that he was traveling southbound in the number one lane at about 32 kmph (20 mph) when he saw V2 stopped for the light and decided to change lanes. He looked to the left lane and saw another vehicle next to him. He said that he could not get over. He then locked his brakes up and skidded for about 6-meters (19.7-feet) before he struck the rear of V2. He said that he was slowing down just before the crash. The driver said that traffic is always this busy at this location at this time of the day. The driver was on his way home after working for the past 5 days on an average of 10 hours a day.

The Critical Pre Crash event was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The Critical Reason was coded to the driver of V1 as a driver related factor: other decision factor (specified as: The driver decided to attempt to change lanes rather than to apply his brakes. Stopping would have avoided the crash.). The driver made a decision to change lanes after he saw V2 stopped in his traffic lane ahead. He made a false assumption that there were no vehicles occupying the lane he wanted to merge into. V1 would have stopped in time to avoid the crash if he had decided to stop rather than to change lanes. By making this decision to merge instead of choosing to apply his brakes in a timely fashion, the result was a misjudgment of the forward gap between his vehicle and V2, and poor directional control of his vehicle. The inspection of V1 revealed that both rear tires were only at approximately ½ their recommended inflation pressure & the right front tire was underinflated by about 28 kPA (4 psi). These amounts of under-inflation would increase the stopping distance needed for V1.

A 21-year old male drove V2. He said that he was stopped for about 5-10 seconds behind V3 for the light ahead. He said that he looked in his rear view mirror and saw V1 coming up behind him trying to change lanes. He said that V1 then hit the rear of his vehicle. He said that there was another car in the left lane and that is why V1 could not get over into the left lane. The driver was on his way home from work after working for the last 5 days on an average of 8 hours a day. The driver said that he was kind of tired and just wanted to get home because it was his Friday for the workweek and he had the weekend off. A 22-year old male also occupied the right front passenger seat.

The Critical Pre Crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical reason was not coded to vehicle two.

A 35-year old male drove V3. He said that he was stopped for about 10 seconds for the light behind several cars. He said he was looking in his rear view mirror and saw V2 stopped behind him. He then heard tires screeching and then V2 went forward and struck the rear of his vehicle. The driver was on his way to work coming from home. The driver said that there was a lot of traffic backed up for the light at the time of the crash. Vehicle three was not involved in the first harmful event.