The crash occurred at an intersection in the eastbound lanes of a two-way, five-lane, undivided, suburban roadway. There were two westbound lanes, an eastbound left turn lane, and two eastbound through lanes leading up to a signal-controlled intersection with pedestrian crossings. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). Eastbound lanes had a 2% downhill grade while northbound lanes had a 3% downhill grade. Conditions were daylight and dry with clear skies. The setting was early afternoon hours on a weekday.

Vehicle one was a 1997 Dodge Dakota pickup traveling eastbound in lane one approaching the intersection. Vehicle two was a 1996 Toyota Camry sedan traveling northbound in lane one approaching the intersection. Both vehicle proceeded through the intersection. The front plane of V1 impacted the left plane of V2. Both vehicles then rotated into a side-slap impact, with the right plane of V1 impacting the left plane of V2. V1 came to rest in the intersection. V2 continued east and traveled off the northeast corner of the intersection, coming to rest on residential property off the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 40-year old male who was uninjured. He stated that he was traveling from one job site to another and was talking intermittently with a co-worker over a walkie-talkie cell phone. He claims to not have been engaged in conversation when he approached and traveled through the intersection with a green light. He estimated his travel and impact speeds to be 64 kmph (40 mph), and did not have time for an avoidance maneuver. V1 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling crossing over intersection. The Critical Reason was a recognition error of inadequate surveillance. As mentioned above this driver was possibly engaged in a walkie-talkie conversation. No other associated factors could be coded to this driver.

V2 was driven by a 59-year old male who was transported to a local hospital with possible injuries. He stated that he was traveling from the grocery store home. Like the driver of V1, he also claimed to have a green light while traveling through the intersection. This driver did have a chance to brake with lockup, and estimated his travel and impact speeds to be 56 and 48 kmph (35 and 30 mph), respectively. He noted that after impact the steering and braking systems were disabled. He was not able to avoid traveling off the roadside due to these malfunctions. V2 was not towed due to police-reported damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from crossing street across path. No Critical Reason was coded to this driver. This driver suffered from chronic pain and diabetes. He was taking prescription medications for those conditions. The driver wore corrective lenses for nearsightedness. He was not working at the time of the crash. He travels this roadway on a weekly basis.