The crash occurred on a two-lane two-way undivided roadway with a posted speed limit of 72 KMPH (45 MPH). The roadway curved to the right with a radius of curvature of 82 Meters and a superelevation of 1.6%. The roadway had a -6.7% grade. There was a black on yellow curve warning sign with a suggested speed of 48 KMPH (30 MPH) more than a quarter mile from the crash. It was cloudy, the roadway was wet and it was daylight at the time of this weekend afternoon crash.

Vehicle 1, a 2000 Toyota Echo, was traveling north on the two-lane roadway negotiating the curve to the right on a downgrade. Vehicle 1 lost control, rotated clockwise across the southbound lane and off the left side of the roadway. Vehicle 1 climbed a box beam guardrail end and rolled over to the right three quarter turns. Vehicle 1 came to rest on its left side facing in a southerly direction. Vehicle 1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1.

The Toyota Echo (Vehicle 1) was driven by a belted 17-year-old female who was transported, treated and released at a local hospital. The driver stated that she was on her way home from work, having traveled only a few miles prior to the crash and was not in any hurry. She advised that it had stopped raining, but the roadway was wet. As she came around the turn traveling approximately 64-72 KMPH (40-45 MPH), the vehicle started to skid. She braked, corrected to the left, then the right and the vehicle spun on the roadway. She remembered going off the left side of the roadway, hitting the guardrail and being upside down. Passers by stopped to help her out of the vehicle. She was in good health, did not wear glasses and took no medications. She stated that she had been hiking the day before, had only slept 6 ½ hours before having to get up to go to work. She was tired when she left work. She rarely drove this roadway and has only had her license for 4 months.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle 1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the roadway on the left side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was too fast for curve/turn, a driver decision error. This was chosen because the driver indicated she was traveling 64-72 KMPH (40-45 MPH). There is a design deficiency to this curve. The posted speed limit should be no more than 40 KMPH (25 MPH) for the radius of 82 Meters. Associated factors coded to this driver were inexperience, fatigue, strenuous recreational activities, overcompensation, poor directional control and insufficient steering and braking inputs.