A two vehicle daytime collision occurred on a weekday morning. The collision occurred on a five lane, dry, level, positively divided concrete expressway. The speed limit on the expressway is 104 kmph (65 mph), and the left-most lane is designated for high-occupancy vehicles only. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions, and the roadway was free of defects. Traffic was congested from the morning work commute.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1991 Ford Escort 4-door hatchback, was traveling southbound in the third lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Toyota Tacoma 2-door extra-cab pickup, was ahead of V1 in the same lane. V2 was approaching slow traffic ahead, and came to a complete stop. V1's front plane impacted V2's rear plane. Both vehicles came to rest facing south in the same lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 52-year-old female driver of V1 could not be interviewed. She reported to police that she was following V2, and she looked away to her left for a second to check traffic in the adjacent lane. When she looked back, she realized that V2 had stopped. She applied her brakes, but was unable to avoid a collision. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: Other vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related recognition error, inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

The driver of V2 is a 46 year-old male with thirty-two years of driving experience. He has a hyperopic (far sighted) condition and was wearing his prescription glasses at the time of the crash. He does not have a restriction on his license for corrective lenses. He had a cup of coffee in his cup holder but was not drinking at the time of the crash. He reported that he was fully stopped for a few seconds prior to the collision. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.