This crash occurred in a four-way intersection controlled by stop signs on the east and westbound approaches. All the approaches to the intersection were 2-lane undivided roadways with one lane going in each direction. All of the roadways involved were straight, level, and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred in the early evening on a holiday eve and the roads were dry and the skies were clear. There was very little traffic on the roads due to the holiday and the traffic was moving steadily.

V1, a 2002 Mazda MPV minivan, was traveling west through the intersection in lane one intending on continuing straight through the intersection. V2, a 2007 Toyota Camry 4-door, was traveling south through the intersection in lane one intending on continuing straight through the intersection. As V1 approached the intersection, it slowed down for the stop sign but did not come to a complete stop. V1 proceeded into the intersection although the intersection was not clear. The driver of V2 saw V1 approaching the intersection but assumed that V1 would stop for the stop sign. However, when the driver of V2 realized that V1 was not completely stopping for the stop sign it was too late to avoid the accident. The front of V1 struck the left front of V2. Both of the vehicles came to final rest within approximately 5 meters of point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Mazda MPV, was driven by a 58-year-old male who reported no injuries at the time of the accident. The driver was traveling west through the intersection and intending on continuing traveling straight. The driver approached the stop sign but only slowed down and failed to come to a complete stop. There were vehicles parked on the side of the road, which the driver claimed made it difficult for him to see far enough ahead to either side. When the driver looked, he thought the intersection was clear. The driver was on his way from another state to visit his family that lived in this town.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded as "This vehicle traveling-crossing over (passing through) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as inadequate surveillance. The driver did not come to a complete stop for the stop sign and proceeded into the intersection without taking enough time to look both ways. Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include conversation with his passenger, an illegal maneuver for failing to come to a complete stop at the stop sign, and a sightline restriction because of the vehicles parked on the side of the road.

V2, the Toyota Camry, was driven by a 23-year-old male who reported no injuries at the time of the accident. The driver stated that he was leaving a friends' house and was on his way to the pharmacy to pick up medicine for a sick baby at home. As he approached the intersection, he saw V1 coming to the stop sign, but he assumed that he would stop for the sign and did exhibit any caution. When the driver of V2 realized that V1 was not going to stop for the stop sign, it was too late to do anything to avoid the collision.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded as "Other motor vehicle encroachment-from crossing street, across path." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to this driver include inattention because he stated he was thinking and worried about the sick baby at home, being in a hurry because he wanted to get the medicine home as soon as possible, and a false assumption because he saw V1 approaching the stop sign and assumed it would stop and yield the right of way to him.