This three vehicle crash occurred in the #1 eastbound lane of a four-lane dry asphalt roadway during early morning daylight hours. There are also westbound lanes that are separated by a raised median from the eastbound lanes . This was a straight, level roadway with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash is intersection related and the traffic was moderate at the time of the crash. The intersection is controlled by a tri-color traffic light that was functioning properly at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Ford Explorer 4X4, driven by a 70 year-old male was traveling in the eastbound #1 lane approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1985 Jeep CJ-5 driven by a 52 year-old male was stopped in the eastbound #1 lane to the rear of V-3. Vehicle three (V3), a 1989 GMC Safari Minivan driven by a 31 year-old male was stopped in the eastbound #1 lane for the red light. V-1 struck the rear of V-2 forcing it forward into the rear of V-3. V-1 traveled off the right side of the roadway and across the northbound lanes at the south side of the intersection. It traveled off the east edge of that roadway and struck a sign where it came to rest. The impact caused V-2 to rotate counterclockwise until it struck the rear of V-3. V-2 then rotated clockwise and came to rest with its right front wheel on the edge of the curb. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

The driver of V 1 stated that he did not remember anything prior to the crash. The driver of V-1 has just come from the hospital where he began a sleep apnea test the night before at 2100 hours. The driver was released from the hospital at approximately 0630 hours and was on his way home when he apparently fell asleep while traveling on the straight roadway. V 1 & V 2 were towed due to damage.

The pre-event movement for V-1 was coded going straight. The critical pre crash event was coded 'other vehicle in lane-other vehicle stopped. The critical reason was coded driver related factor-asleep that is actually sleeping.

The pre event movement for V-2 was coded stopped in traffic lane, category other motor vehicle in lane-other vehicle traveling with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V-3 was not involved in the first harmful event.