A two-vehicle nighttime collision occurred a few hours before midnight on a Friday. The collision occurred in the southwest corner of a busy four-leg intersection. The east/west roadway is a two-way, six-lane undivided, bituminous roadway. The pre-crash roadway is level and straight. The roadway was wet, as it was raining lightly. Access to the roadway is not controlled. The posted speed limit for the roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Volkswagen Golf 4 door hatchback, was traveling east in lane two, the right lane of the two that head straight through the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Saturn SL was traveling westbound initiating a left turn to head southbound on a green left-turn arrow of the tri-light. V2 was in lane #3, the right lane of the two left turn lanes. The front of V1 impacted the right rear of V2 in the intersection. V2 was rotated around clockwise and came to rest facing northeast in straddling lane 1 and 2 of the southbound lanes. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was an 18-year-old female whose pre-crash factors are unknown, as she and her father refused to participate at the scene. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. According to the police report, this driver did not stop at the intersection for the red light, and did not yield the right of way to V2. The critical reason for the critical event assigned to this driver is an unknown driver recognition error. It is unknown why this driver did not recognize why the light was red, nor why this driver proceeded into the intersection as V2 was turning in front of her vehicle.

The driver of V2 was a 25 year-old male who is reportedly in good health, with no hearing or sight restrictions. He was well rested, and does not work. He had just picked up one friend from the pub, and was heading to the gym to pick up another friend, and they were not in a hurry. They were having a social conversation and listening to the radio, but he was attentive to the driving task. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over right lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.