This three vehicle crash occurred at a T-type intersection consisting of a north/south non-controlled two-way two-lane road with a painted double yellow centerline and an intersecting two-lane two-way road located to the east of the primary road which has a stop sign to control westbound traffic at the intersection. The posted speed limit for both roadways is 40 kmph (25 mph) . At the time of this late morning crash the traffic was very light, and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions or road defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Mercury Grand Marquis sedan, was southbound approaching the intersection intending to turn left. The V1 driver, an 85 year old male, stated that his attention was focused on V3, stopped westbound at the stop sign, and as he made his left turn, the right side of his vehicle was impacted by the front of V2. He added that he did not look in the direction of V2's oncoming approach. Finally, the V1 driver stated that he is very familiar with the intersection, which is on his regular route to church. V1 was towed due to damage, but the V1 driver was not transported for treatment. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 GMC compact utility, was northbound approaching the intersection intending to go straight. The V2 driver, a 61 year old male, stated that he noticed oncoming V1, but that it did not signal a turn prior to turning into his path. Upon noticing V1 start to turn, the V2 driver stated that he began to steer left but was not able to avoid a front impact with the right side of V2. V2 was towed due to damage and the three V2 occupants were treated at the scene, but not transported.

Vehicle three (V3), a 1995 Mercury Grand Marquis sedan, was stopped westbound at the stop sign intending to turn right. The V3 driver, an 89 year old male, stated that as he was stopped waiting for traffic to clear, V1 rotated into his vehicle and contact occurred between the front of his vehicle and the left side of V1. The V3 driver was not transported, and V3 was driven from the crash scene.

The V1 Critical Pre-crash Event was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason was coded to V1 as a driver related recognition factor: external distraction. An associative factor coded to this vehicle was Inadequate surveillance.

The V2 Critical Pre-crash Event was coded: other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over the left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle.