This two-vehicle rear-end type crash occurred in a 4-legged, light controlled intersection. This intersection has 6 lanes going east to west and two lanes entering from the north side and 3 lanes entering from the south entrance. This crash occurred during daylight with no adverse weather and no road defects. The control lights were in good working order with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). Both vehicles were going west and were in the lane 3 approaching this intersection when the lights changed from green to yellow.

Vehicle (V2), a 2001 Chevrolet Cavalier 2-door coupe, was westbound in the lane 3 when the traffic signal changed from green to yellow. The driver stated that he thought of continuing through the yellow light but decided to stop instead and was in the process of stopping when the crash occurred. Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Hyundai Santa Fe SUV, was westbound approaching this intersection some distance behind V2 also in lane 3. The driver of V1 noticed the vehicle in the right lane continue through this intersection and assumed that V2 would also continue and not stop. When the driver of V1 realized that V2 was stopping for the yellow light this driver applied the brakes but the front of V1 struck the rear of V2. Both vehicles came to rest adjacent to the impact point. V1 was towed from the scene; V2 was driven. The driver of V2 was transported to a local hospital. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 67 year-old male who drives the route daily and is familiar with the vehicle. As he approached the intersection, the traffic light turned yellow and he falsely assumed V2 in front of him would continue thru the intersection and he would follow. The critical pre-crash event was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded to V1 as a driver factor: false assumption of other's action.

The driver of V2 is a 59 year-old male who rarely drives the route and is familiar with the vehicle. The driver was unemployed, having resigned some 3 days prior because of a disagreement with management. The critical pre-crash event was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle.