This two-vehicle crash occurred in the early afternoon of a weekday in the middle of rural T-intersection. The intersection was composed of a north/south two-lane roadway intersected by an east/west two-lane roadway controlled by a stop sign. The bituminous roads were dry, straight, and level with posted speed limits of 72 kmph (45 mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 2001 Ford Explorer Sport with one occupant, was northbound at 89 kmph (55 mph) approaching the intersection. V2, a 2002 Chevrolet S-10 with three occupants, was stopped at the intersection, facing west preparing to turn left. As V1 entered the intersection V2 began its left turn and the two vehicles collided. After the initial impact, the two vehicles spun in opposite directions and side-slapped each other. V1 departed the road to the left and traveled a short distance before coming to rest against a tree. V2 came to final rest in the southbound lane facing northeast. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to injury. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 48-year-old male, was traveling into town to meet up with his wife as they were planning to visit the State Fair. He is familiar with this roadway as it is only eight miles from his home and he travels it daily. He did admit that he was traveling above the speed limit and saw a yellow truck (V2) stopped at the intersection. As this driver entered the intersection, the truck (V2) turned into his direction. This driver states he was not expecting the truck to pull out and that there was not enough time to avoid crashing into it. He was transported from the scene to a local trauma center where he was treated for a fractured sternum.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded other vehicle encroaching from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factor coded to this driver was traveling too fast for conditions.

The driver of V2, a 33-year-old male, could be not interviewed due to a language barrier. He was transported from the scene for treatment of non-incapacitating injuries. The two other passengers of the vehicle were also transported for treatment of minor injuries.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason was coded as an unknown driver error. There were no known associated factors coded to V2.