This two-vehicle crash occurred during daylight hours in a traffic signal-controlled intersection. The north/south roadway consists of two through lanes and a bus-only lane in each direction as well as a center left-turn lane. The southbound lanes approaching the intersection have a downhill grade of 5% and the northbound lanes have an uphill grade of 3%. Both directions are straight and the speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph). At the time of the crash, the sky was cloudy but there were no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one, a 1991 Buick Park Avenue, was traveling south in the center left turn lane, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two, a 1990 Acura Integra, was northbound in lane two. As vehicle one turned left, the front of vehicle one struck the front of vehicle two. Vehicle one rotated clockwise and vehicle two rotated counterclockwise; both vehicles came to rest in the northbound lanes north of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a ninety-one-year old female was not interviewed at the crash scene due to injuries. She refused an interview later. According to her medical records, she takes Coumadin, Fosamax and Cozaar. She has a history of chronic hypertension and osteoporosis and currently has a cataract in her left eye.

The driver of vehicle two, a forty-year old male, was not available for an interview due to his injuries. His forty-two-year-old male passenger, who is the driver's roommate, was interviewed. He stated that they were traveling from their home to the passenger's workplace. The passenger was giving the driver directions, but the driver was otherwise not distracted. The passenger did not notice the driver braking and did not believe that the driver saw vehicle one prior to the crash. The driver was reportedly comfortable driving this vehicle but it is unknown if he was familiar with this roadway.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded: this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as a driver related factor: type of driver error unknown.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was not coded to this vehicle.