This three-vehicle crash occurred shortly afternoon in daylight hours on a straight, divided, bituminous, dry, four-leg intersection. Eastbound traffic on the west side consists of three through lanes and one left turn lane. Westbound traffic on the east side consists of three through lanes and one left turn lane. Southbound traffic on the north side consists of one two through lanes and one left turn lane. At the intersection, there are crosswalks and tri-color traffic light with pedestrian signals. The speed limit for east and westbound is 56 kmph (35 mph) and for north and southbound 48 kmph (30 mph). It was early afternoon on a week day and the sky was clear.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Cadillac, SRX, driven by a 81 year-old male was eastbound in lane four, the left turn lane, was stopped in the intersection at a green light waiting for it to turn red. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Ford F-150, driven by a 43 year-old male with two passengers was westbound in lane two going straight through the intersection on a green light. Vehicle three (V3), a 1998 Toyota Camry, driven by a 74 year-old female was southbound in lane three, the left turn lane at a red light. Vehicle one started its turn and entered the intersection at the same time as vehicle two. Vehicle one was impacted on the right side by vehicle two's front. After the impact, vehicle one rotated clockwise and entered the southbound lane three, where vehicle three was stopped and sideswiped with its left side to vehicle three's front. Vehicle one entered the northbound lane and came to rest on its wheels facing north next to the curb. After the first impact, vehicle two rotated clockwise and came to rest on its wheels facing northwest in the left turn lane of southbound travel. Vehicle three came to rest on its wheels facing southbound in the left turn lane at impact. Driver of vehicle one stated there was no arrow at that intersection and he had to pull out and wait for the light to turn red to continue with the turn. He stated the westbound vehicles were stopping and he assumed the light had changed and proceeded with the turn. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event is a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions. This was due to a false assumption on the driver's part that the light had turned red & he should proceed with his turn. He also made an assumption that V2 would not enter the intersection and failed to yield the right of way to V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The Critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.