This two-vehicle collision occurred on a four-way urban residential intersection at approximately 0730 hours. Northbound and southbound traffic is controlled by stop signs. Posted speed limit is 40 kmph (25 mph). Roadway for both drivers is two-way, undivided, straight and level. The road surface was dry and the sky was clear.

Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Chevrolet Tahoe SUV with one occupant, was traveling east in lane one on a bituminous roadway with the intention of going straight. The driver was en route to work after leaving his place of residence. Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Dodge Dakota pickup with one occupant, was traveling south in lane one on a concrete roadway with the intention of going straight. The driver had just left her home en route to volunteer at a local shelter kitchen. The driver of V1 approached the intersection and stopped for several seconds while looking left and right. Driver failed to detect V2 approaching and drove forward into the intersection where the front of V1 struck the left side of V2. After impact, V1 rotated counterclockwise 90 degrees and came to final rest near the southeast corner of the intersection. After impact, V2 was deflected right towards the southeast corner of the intersection, left the roadway, struck a stop sign with the right side mirror, and came to rest in the front yard of a private residence. V1 was towed from scene by a friend using a towrope. . V2 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was an 89 year-old female who is familiar with the vehicle and drives the route daily. She was on her way to a shelter to do volunteer work. She stopped at the stop sign, looked both ways and proceeded into the intersection. She failed to detect V2 coming from her right. The pre-crash critical event was coded "other vehicle encroachment-from crossing street, across path." The critical reason was coded "inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see)."

The driver of V2 was a 25 year-old male who is familiar with the vehicle and drives the route daily. He was a little late for work when the collision occurred. As he approached the intersection, he detected V1 stopped and then proceed into the intersection. The driver braked and steered right in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid the collision. The critical pre-crash event was coded "this vehicle traveling-crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.