This single vehicle rollover occurred on a four-lane divided asphalt-constructed roadway. This roadway runs east to west with the eastbound lanes on a downgrade of -6 percent. There are various curves in this roadway with a right hand curve for the top of the grade then a left hand curve near the bottom of this grade. There is guard railing on the south side and a hillside cut back on the north side. There are two lanes running in either direction. This roadway is divided with a dirt median with a drainage ditch. The cutback runs uphill with a grade of +28 percent. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1990 Chevrolet pickup was eastbound in the first lane. V1 was pulling a 7.62 m (25 ft) long Hi/Lo travel trailer when it began to descend the grade. As V1 entered the right hand curve the driver felt the trailer begin to tug on the rear of the vehicle. The driver looked into the left rear view mirror and saw the trailer swing out on the left side, so she accelerated trying to straighten out the trailer but this had no effect on the trailer. She applied the trailer brakes but this also had no effect on the trailer. The driver then felt the truck begin to drift right off the roadway and saw she was headed toward the right guard railing so she steered left and jammed on the foot brakes. This action caused the truck and trailer to rotate counter-clockwise and the right side of the truck contacted the guard railing. Both units then skidded across both lanes of traffic while rotating counter-clockwise, jack-knifed with contact, and exited the left road edge. Both units exited the road edge rotating then bounced thru the drainage ditch and up the hill cutback. Once over the drainage ditch both units tripped on the dirt median and rolled over toward the right plane. V1 rolled uphill 2 quarters then rolled back down 1 quarter coming to rest on the passenger side heading in a northerly direction. The vehicle and trailer were disabled and towed for damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1, a forty-nine year old female was heading from home to a camping trip. This driver had been driving for almost three and three quarter hours at the time of the crash. This claims to be in good health but does suffer from lower back pain that she takes medication at bedtime. She works a five days week and had worked this morning but worked only six hours. She stated that she has driven this unit before and had been over this roadway many times but not since the roadway had been redeveloped. This driver thinks that maybe a piece of suspension broke on the trailer.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle control loss due to: jackknife (non-contact trailer swing). The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded as a driver related factor: poor directional control.