This crash occurred just before a 4-way intersection. The east/west approach was a 4-lane undivided roadway with two lanes in each direction. The southbound roadway was a 3-lane roadway divided by a raised curb/grass median with two lanes heading south (one is a left turn-only lane) and one lane heading north. The east/west roadway was a straight, level, and bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 80 kmph (50 mph). The crash occurred in the early afternoon on a weekday, and the roads were dry and the skies were clear. Traffic flow was somewhat congested with stop-and-go activity.

V1 was a 1994 Honda Civic 2-door driven by an 18-year old male. He was the only occupant. V1 was traveling west in lane 2 intending to continue straight through the intersection. As the driver of V1 approached the intersection, the light had just changed from red to green and the two vehicles in lane 2 in front of him were stopped or just beginning to accelerate. The driver of V1 switched lanes to pass these vehicles and went over the lane line on the right side. As he was in the process of changing lanes, he lost control of the vehicle and he skidded off the road to the right. His front right tire hit the curb. The undercarriage of V2 scraped a concrete sewer cover on the roadside and V1 continued over the next curb (going northwest) where his undercarriage again struck the curb, went over the grass median, and then went over the next curb where his undercarriage again struck. The driver of V1 still did not regain control of his vehicle and the front left of V1 hit a tree, which sent his vehicle into a yaw, leaving several tire gouge marks for 45 meters. Prior to the end of the collision course, the right rear side of V1 hit another tree, which brought V1 to final rest, 80 meters from where the first point of impact occurred. Police Reported Travel Speed is 161 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1 reported a "B" injury. He stated that he had left work for his lunch break and he and his girlfriend were fighting before he left work. He started calling her while still at his job site and then when she did not pick up the phone, he got in his car with the intention of going to her work place to talk to her. After beginning his trip, he continuously tried to reach her on his handheld cell phone, yelling at her on the voice mails. He stated that while he was driving he was dialing, screaming on the phone, and hanging up and then repeating this behavior. The driver of V1 stated that police told him that they believed he was going approximately 144-160 kmph (90-100 mph) when he switched lanes and hit the curb, but he stated that he was not really paying attention to his speed at the time.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle loss control due to traveling too fast for conditions." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as aggressive driving. Many associated factors were coded to this driver. The driver was inattentive because he was more concerned about his argument than what was going on the road. The driver was involved in the other non-driving activities of dialing and hanging up the phone, along with leaving voice mail messages. He was driving aggressively by speeding (twice the posted speed limit) and weaving in and out of traffic. He was speeding because of his anger but he stated that he normally speeds (not that fast but he does have a radar detector in his vehicle). He was upset and angry. He was in a hurry for no particular reason; he just wanted to get to his destination (his girlfriend's work place) as quickly as possible. Driver inexperience was also coded as an associated factor.