The crash happened on a weekend during early afternoon hours. The location was a residential, two way, three lane, undivided, straight asphalt roadway. The weather was clear and the roads dry. The posted speed limit for the roadway was 48 kph (30 mph). Traffic was moderate.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1988 Dodge Ram charger with four occupants, was traveling east in the first lane of the roadway. V1 drove off the roadway to the right. Its right front corner impacted a utility pole support cable. V1 rode partially up the cable before V1 to roll over to the left side back onto the roadway. V1 rolled two-quarter turns while rotating clockwise. V1 came to rest on its roof, facing north. The entire roll over sequence occurred over a distance of 9 m (30 feet). The vehicle was towed from the scene. The driver and two occupants were able to exit the vehicle under their own power and walked away from the scene. The fourth occupant remained at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

A 30-year old male, who left the scene prior to the police officers arrival, was the driver of the vehicle. A fourth occupant was still at the scene. He said the driver was supported by one of the occupants while limping from the scene. The remaining occupant was interviewed with the assistance of a translator on scene. He stated he knew the driver as a former co-worker living in the same apartment complex. He did not know any details about his personal information, but stated he himself had a few beers to drink prior to the start of the trip. He was not sure about the driver. The driver gave this occupant a ride to a grocery store. According to the interviewee the driver had just missed the store and was talking with this occupant about a detour to said store. The interviewee was sure the driver had both his hands on the steering wheel and was looking straight ahead, although the occupant he was talking to was seated in the right rear seat. The next grocery store was within 90 meters (295 feet), but it seemed a rather unlikely destination. The food store was "Asian foods"; the occupants of the vehicle were all Hispanics.

The critical per-crash event was coded "this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road to the right side." The critical reason was coded "driver related factor - internal distraction." The driver was conversing with the right rear occupant and was possibly looking at him when the vehicle ran off the roadway.