The two-vehicle crash occurred in the early afternoon of a weekday in the middle of a four-way urban intersection. The intersection consisted of a 2-lane north/south roadway intersected by a 2-lane east/west roadway controlled by properly functioning traffic signals. Both streets were bituminous, dry, straight, and level with posted speed limits of 40 kmph (25 mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1998 International Harvester serving as a sanitation removal vehicle with one occupant, was northbound approaching the intersection where it intended to go straight. V2, a 1995 Chevrolet Corsica with one occupant, was eastbound in lane one approaching the same intersection where it also intended to go straight. The traffic signal turned red for traffic in the northbound direction, but V1 failed to stop and entered the intersection. The driver of V1 braked hard but its front left corner struck the right side of V2. The force of the impact caused V2 to rotate counter-clockwise approximately 160 degrees before departing the roadway off the northwest corner of the intersection. V2 struck a wooden utility pole located in the northwest corner and came to final rest against it. After the initial impact V1, for unknown reasons, accelerated and left the crash scene. V1 was stopped by law enforcement less than one mile away from the crash scene. V2 was towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 48-year old male, had been driving a sanitation vehicle regularly for 10 years. He explained that he had almost finished a day's work and had dropped off his work crew to go run an errand and that he was on his way back to pick up his crew when the crash occurred. V1 driver stated that his attention was focused on something inside of the vehicle though he would not disclose what it was stating that he felt uncomfortable discussing that topic. V1 driver freely acknowledged that he had made a mistake and when he looked up to see that his light was red he immediately applied his foot brakes and engaged his "Jake brake" and slightly steered to the left. His tires locked and he skidded into the intersection. He stated that there was nothing that he could do to avoid striking V2. V1 driver also stated that he had been diagnosed with sleep apnea and suffers from high blood pressure though neither of these conditions affected his ability to drive. V1 driver declined to discuss why he fled the crash scene but did state that he was facing undisclosed charges and is no longer allowed to work as a driver.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver related factor, internal distraction. Associated factors coded to V1 driver were failure to stop for a traffic control device, as well the medication the driver takes for his high blood pressure (which warns against operating heavy machinery, as dizziness is a known possible side effect).

The driver of V2, a 52-year-old male, was being loaded into a medic unit upon researcher arrival. He was traveling to visit a friend when he was involved in the crash. He stated that he was traveling east in lane one with a green light but could not see the approaching sanitation truck he did not have a chance to take any avoidance maneuvers. The next thing he remembered was being taken out of his vehicle by the medics. He was unaware that his air bag deployed or that he had struck a pole until his son informed him about the condition of his vehicle.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factor coded to V2 was a sightline restriction as the buildings that lined the street prevented the driver of V2 from seeing V1 until it was too late.

A witness to this crash had just parked her car on the east side of the north/south roadway and stepped out of her vehicle. She explained that she heard V1 racing up the street from behind her and it then passed her just to her left. She watched V1 and remembered wondering why this huge truck was speeding down the street. She then she saw that the light was red for V1. She stated that she only saw V2 for a split second because V1 was blocking her view of V2. She watched as V1 went through the red light and then V1 accelerated and left the crash scene. Immediately after the impact she stated that she saw V2 crash into the utility pole.