The crash occurred off the northbound lane of a rural two-lane undivided asphalt roadway with one lane in each direction. The roadway was curved to the right (radius of curvature of 96m) but level, with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The road surface was dry and the weather was clear. The crash occurred in the early evening (while still daylight) of a weekday and traffic was light.

V1, a 2003 Ford Explorer sport utility vehicle with one occupant, was northbound in lane one. The right front tire went off the right edge of the roadway. While the driver was trying to regain control and return to the roadway, the vehicle continued tracking along a grassy ditch that paralleled the roadway for about 20m until it struck a guardrail and came to rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

V1 was driven by a 27-year old male who received possible injuries and was transported to a hospital. The driver of V1 said he had just washed his vehicle and was headed to the store. He claimed that he was not distracted by anything in or outside of the vehicle. V1 was in a straight level section of roadway approaching a curve to the right. He felt the right front wheel go off the right edge of the road. After departing the roadway, the driver said he tried to regain control by braking and steering, but the vehicle continued traveling northbound in the grassy drainage ditch at the right edge of the roadway for about 18m until its front left struck a manhole and a guardrail, coming to rest northbound against the guardrail and atop of the manhole.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling off the road on the right side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was driver related - poor directional control (failure to control vehicle with the skill ordinarily expected). Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 were too fast for conditions, insufficient steering input, and a roadway related deficiency. The posted speed on the roadway was 35 mph, and according to AASHTO standards, a roadway with a radius of curvature of 96 meters should have a posted speed limit of no more than 30 mph.