This intersection related rear-end collision between three vehicles occurred during daylight hours with no adverse weather conditions. Traffic signal device located approximately 136-meters (446-feet) ahead of collision site controlled traffic flow. Roadway is two-way, divided, with two lanes of traffic in each direction. The road is straight, level, bituminous, with a posted speed limit is 72 kmph (45 mph).

Vehicle three (V3), a 2005 Subaru Forester SUV occupied by a driver only, was traveling east in lane two with the intention of turning left at the intersection. Traffic was stopped for the traffic signal so driver had stopped behind non-contact vehicles. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Mazda MX6 2-door coupe with a driver only was traveling east (stopped) in lane two with the intention of going straight. V2 was stopped behind V3. Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Mercury Topaz 2-door coupe occupied by a driver only, was traveling east in lane two with the intention of going straight. The front of V1 impacted the back of V2 that caused V2 to move forward and strike the rear of V3. All three vehicles came to rest in lane two. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene: V3 was driven. None of the occupants were transported. The driver of V1 received a non-incapacitating injury but was not transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

An unrestrained 18-year-old female driver occupied V1. She takes no medications. She had departed work and was running an errand and headed to a walk-in doctor's appointment. She had been driving for 7 minutes and travels the roadway daily. This driver became distracted by another vehicle traveling in front and to the right of V1. Once the driver looked forward again, she realized traffic was stopped in the travel lane and attempted to avoid collision by applying brakes, but avoidance maneuver was initiated too late. The critical pre-crash event for V1 is coded as "other motor vehicle in lane: other vehicle stopped" and the critical reason for the critical pre-crash event is coded as "driver related: external distraction".

V2 was occupied be a restrained 37-year-old female driver. She takes no medication, is familiar with roadway, was running errands and had only been driving seven minutes when collision occurred. Driver did not perform any avoidance actions. The critical pre-crash event for V2 is coded as "other motor vehicle in lane: traveling in same direction with higher speed" and the critical reason for the critical pre-crash event is coded as "not coded to this vehicle".

A restrained 51-year-old female driver occupied V3. She takes no medication and is familiar with roadway. Driver was returning to work after having lunch. She had been driving less than 10 minutes when collision occurred. Driver stated she was stopped in travel lane when her vehicle was hit from behind. The critical pre-crash event for V3 is coded as "not involved in first harmful event”. A critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.