This two-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of a three-way busy intersection. The intersection joined two streets: the northbound/southbound street had one lane in each direction and the eastbound street had one lane. The northbound/southbound lanes were non-physically divided, only double yellow lines divided the lanes. The single eastbound lane eventually leads to the entrance of a major highway. There were signalized traffic control devices controlling all directions of travel. The roads surfaces were bituminous dry and straight and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit for all directions of travel was 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred on a weekend during the early afternoon daylight hours. The roadway was free of any defects and the traffic flow was normally busy for this intersection.

Vehicle one, 1996 Chevrolet CH1800 small truck, was traveling eastbound through the three-way intersection when it contacted with its front the right side of vehicle two, a 1986 Nissan 300ZX, traveling southbound through the intersection. Vehicle two, after the initial contact continued traveling through the intersection and contacted with its front the front of vehicle three, a 2005 Ford Explorer SUV, stopped in the northbound traffic lane awaiting the green light. Vehicle one after the initial impact rotated clockwise and flipped over onto its left side where it came to final rest facing eastward. All of the vehicles were eventually towed from the scene due to severe damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a 44-year old male, after several attempts, could not be reached for comments. The small truck was used for a roofing business. All three occupants of vehicle one were transported to the hospital with various non-life threatening injuries.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V1 is: “other motor vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle because of the researcher's inability to locate him.

The driver of vehicle two, a 25-year old male, said he was traveling southbound and stopped at the intersection and proceeded when the signalized traffic control light turned green. What he didn't realize was shortly after there's another traffic light and it was red. He continued through the intersection thinking the light was also green and that's when his vehicle was struck on the right side by vehicle one. The researcher observed the distance between the traffic lights is several hundred feet apart from one another. He travels on the roadway several times a month and didn't notice the differences between the two lights. He's been a license driver for eight years. He said perhaps he should pay more attention. He was transported to the hospital. With non-life threatening injuries.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V2 is: “this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection”. The Critical Reason coded to this vehicle was: “a recognition error, inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see)”. Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle include: inattention the driver stated he should pay more attention.

The driver of vehicle three, a 52-year old male, said he was simply traveling northbound on the roadway came to a stop for the red light and while waiting for the light to change to green his vehicle was struck by another vehicle sliding through the intersecting. This happen after the vehicle was struck by another vehicle. He didn't see anything until the last minute when it was all over. He was not injured.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V3 is: “not involve in the first harmful event”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle.