This two-vehicle crash occurred on a three-lane asphalt roadway inside a city limits. The westbound roadway curves right then straightens out in the area of the crash and is slightly uphill. The eastbound roadway is straight and slightly downhill. The speed limit for the area is 72 kmph (45 mph). At the time of the crash, it was daylight, snowing heavily and the road was slush-covered.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Dodge Dakota pickup was eastbound in the first lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Chevrolet S-10 Blazer was westbound in the first lane. As V1 was eastbound its rear tires began to slide on the slick roadway. V1 rotated counter-clockwise as it crossed into the westbound lane and with its front end plane contacted the left side plane of V2. V1 continued forward in a counter-clockwise rotation and with its rear-end contacted the end of a guardrail on the westbound roadside. V1 continued its counter-clockwise rotation and straightened out on the eastbound lane where it continued forward and with its right front-end plane, contacted the end of the guardrail on the eastbound roadside. V1 traveled forward a short distance and came to rest on the right side of the road. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 22-year-old male was not interviewed. The police indicated that they suspected alcohol but no test results were obtained. The vehicle inspection revealed all four tires were underinflated with low tread depth. Vehicle dynamics indicate that the speed of the vehicle was too fast for the weather conditions & tire conditions. It is unknown if this driver was distracted in any manner or any other reason for the control loss.

The driver of V2, a 63-year-old female was heading back into town after waiting for some friends at the casino. This driver had only been driving for about twelve minutes at the time of the crash. This driver was thinking about her friends and why they did not show up. This driver had done some strenuous activity getting some articles ready to be donated. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as: type of driver error unknown.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction, over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.