This single event, two-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of a three-lane, non-divided, residential roadway and a five-lane, non-divided commercial roadway. Both vehicles were on the three-lane road. The intersection is controlled by traffic lights with pedestrian signals. The roadway is straight with no slope and a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred on a sunny day in heavy traffic during the evening rush hour with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

V1, a light brown 2000 Buick Skylark 4 door sedan occupied only by the 43 year old female driver, was traveling south in lane one with the intention of going straight through the intersection. She was traveling 60 kmph (37 mph), commuting home from work. After the traffic control light turned yellow, the driver of V1 proceeded through the intersection, assuming that V2 would yield. As V1 continued straight through the intersection, the front of V1 contacted the right front of V2. V1 came to final rest in the southwest corner of the intersection, facing south. Driver of V1 was not injured; both frontal airbags deployed in V1 and it was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a light gray/silver 2001 Hyundai Accent 2 door sedan with the 20-year-old female driver and one passenger, was stopped facing north in lane two (a left turn lane) waiting to turn westbound. The driver of V2 assumed that V1 would stop. As V2 was executing the turn through the intersection, it was struck on the right front side by the front of V1. Post impact, V2 rotated counterclockwise before coming to final rest facing south in lane 3. The driver and passenger of V2 were transported for treatment. No airbags deployed in V2, and it was towed due to damage.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction-over left lane line. There was no critical reason coded to V1. Associated factors are rush hour congestion, misjudged approaching vehicle, falsely assumed other road user's actions: assumed that driver 2 would yield right-of-way.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 is: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason is coded as a driver decision error: false assumption of other's actions. Associated factors include rush hour congestion, driver distraction: conversing with passenger about an upcoming event. Driver decision factors are: misjudged approaching vehicle, and assumed V1 would stop to let her turn. Driver physical factors were also in play, as driver is nearsighted and not wearing required corrective lenses, as well as driver fatigue due to altered sleeping pattern.