The crash occurred in the westbound lane of a two-lane two-way semi-rural roadway. This was a straight, downhill grade of >2%, bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 80 kmph (50 mph). It was late at night on a weekend it was dark, unlit, dry, with no adverse weather conditions.

V1, a 1995 Geo Tracker was westbound in lane one. V2, a 1997 Honda Accord 4 door was westbound in lane one of the same roadway approximately one half miles ahead of V1. V2 slowed almost to a stop while the driver looked for a driveway. V1's front contacted the rear of V2 while both were in lane one. V1 rotated clockwise and was facing north-northwest at final rest while V2 was facing west at final rest. Both vehicles were towed and both drivers were transported due to injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, a 1995 Geo Tracker was driven by a 23 year-old female, the driver stated that she had worked a double shift and then “had a couple of beers” after work with a friend then drove home. Her allergies were bothering her so she had taken Benadryl during the day and had only gotten 7 hours of sleep the night before. She had answered her cell phone and was talking to her girlfriend and was proceeding west and did not notice that V2 in front of her had slowed down. She hit the brakes only after she had rear-ended V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was “other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction while decelerating” and the Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was the driver's “internal distraction”. Some contributing factors on the part of the driver of V1 include the driver's talking on a cell phone at the time of the crash, her fatigue after working a double shift, and her consumption of alcohol before driving.

V2, a 1997 Honda Accord 4 door was driven by a 18 year-old male, the driver stated that he and some of his friends were going to visit a school friend. His friend had given him directions to watch for the driveway near a “no passing sign”. The driver was unfamiliar with the road and it was dark. He saw a sign and slowed down to 8-16 kmph (5-10 mph) thinking he was getting close. He never saw V1 coming up on him from behind. He was looking straight ahead conversing with 3 passengers.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was “other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed” and the Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was “not coded to this vehicle”. Some contributing factors on the part of V2 was the driver's conversing with his passengers, his unfamiliarity with the road and his preoccupation with finding his turn causing him to slow down to look for it.