This two-vehicle crash occurred on an eight lane undivided, urban roadway with one right turn lane, two through lanes, and one left turn lane in the southbound and northbound directions. Driveways are located on both sides of the street. This was a straight, level, and bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). It was late morning on a weekday, the road was dry and the sky was clear. The traffic flow was congested.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Buick Lesabre four door with two occupants, was southbound attempting to turn left into a private driveway. Vehicle two (V2), a 1990 Ford F150 two door with only the driver present, was traveling southbound in lane one. V1 started to turn left in front of two non-contact vehicles that had left an opening for the vehicle to proceed west across the southbound lanes. As V1 started to cross lane one in the southbound direction it was hit on the right front by the front of V2. Both V1 and V2 came to rest on all four wheels facing southeast. V1 was towed from the scene; V2 was driven. The right front occupant in V1 was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

An 87-year old man who reported no injuries drove V1. He refused an interview with the researcher and therefore gave no information. The Critical Pre-crash Event for this vehicle was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for The Critical Event is driver related - inadequate surveillance, failed to look to side. An associated factor coded to this driver is a vehicle sightline restriction of two non-contact in-transport vehicles.

A 37-year old male who reported no injuries drove V2. He stated that he was coming from one delivery to another when V1 appeared in front of him. He hit his brakes but it was too late. The driver of V2 stated that he had received fifteen hours of sleep in the past twenty-four hours and works approximately seven and a half hours a day. The Critical Pre-crash Event for this vehicle was: other vehicle encroachment-from opposite direction-over left lane line. The Critical Reason for The Critical Event is not coded to this vehicle. As with V1 there was also a sightline restriction from two non-contact in-transport vehicles.