This crash occurred in the middle of the southbound lanes of a 5 lane urban roadway. The roadway consisted of two lanes in each direction divided by a two-way center turn lane (lane one in the southbound direction was designated as a right turn only lane). The bituminous roadway was dry, straight and level with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred during weekday morning rush hour when there were adverse atmospheric conditions.

V1, a 2004 BMW 325i convertible with one occupant, was stopped facing north in the center turn lane preparing to turn left into a driveway. V2, a 2004 Hyundai Accent with one occupant was southbound in lane one (the designated right turn lane) approaching the driveway V1 was intending to turn into. The traffic in lane two of the southbound lanes was backed up and stopped. After being stopped for 3-4 seconds the driver of V1 attempted to complete the left turn as an opening developed between the stopped vehicles. As V1 crossed the southbound lanes it was hit on the right side by the front of V2. Both vehicles came to final rest near the point of impact and were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 61 year-old woman, was on her way from work to the local pharmacy. She stated in her interview that she was stopped in the turn lane and waited to turn in to the plaza. Her view of lane one was blocked by a line of traffic stopped in lane two due to the morning rush hour. She stopped and looked before she proceeded but thought the coast was clear and went. She never saw V2 before impact. She suffered minor injuries and was transported for treatment.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason was a decision error, turning with obstructed view. Associated factors include the rush hour traffic and stopped vehicles in lane two obstructing her view of lane one.

The driver of V2, a 35-year-old woman, was driving to work in lane one when she noted the traffic backed up in the lane to her left. She stated that she did not see V1 until it was too late. She applied her brakes but could not avoid hitting V1. She was not injured as a result of the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over the left lane line. The Critical Reason for V2 was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors include the rush hour traffic and the stopped vehicles in lane two.