This two-vehicle crash occurred in the early morning hours at a T-intersection. Both the east/west as well as the north/south directions of the intersection were two-lane, two-way, not physically divided roadways. The bituminous roadways were level and straight. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash and the roadway was dry. The eastbound roadway upon which vehicle one (V1) was traveling was controlled by a stop sign. There were no traffic control devices for vehicle two (V2). The posted speed limit for both vehicles was 56kmph (35mph).

Vehicle one, a 2001 Cadillac Deville, was heading east on the roadway and came to a complete stop at the T-intersection waiting to make a left. Vehicle two, a 2002 Acura 3.2 TL, was traveling south on the roadway intending to continue straight through the intersection. Vehicle one proceeded to make a left when the front end of V2 struck him on the left front side. After the impact, vehicle one spun clockwise approximately 110 degrees before coming to final rest facing south in the southbound lane. Vehicle two rotated counter clockwise approximately 10 degrees facing south in the middle of the intersection between the north and southbound lanes. Both vehicles had to be removed from the scene due to vehicle damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 69 year-old male, suffered minor injuries and was taken to the hospital for treatment. There was one other occupant in the vehicle seated in the front right passenger seat that did not suffer any injuries. As a precaution she was also transported to a medical facility for observation. He related that he came to a complete stop at the intersection and began to “creep out” to see if the coast was clear. He disclosed that he looked right then left and then right again. When he assumed the coast was clear, he proceeded to make a left. At this time he was hit by V2 who was approaching from his left. He relayed that he did not even see the vehicle until after he was struck. For this reason no avoidance actions were performed. The driver also claimed that his sightline was obscured to his right side but not to his left side. He claimed this is the reason he had to look right, left, right, as opposed to left, right, left. The driver was well rested. The driver suffered from coronary artery disease, congenital heart failure, hypertension and diabetes. He was taking medication for these ailments.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was: this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason was coded as: inadequate surveillance - looked but did not see. No other associated factors were coded to this vehicle. It should be noted that the driver of this vehicle claimed that the driver of V2 was on her cell phone when the crash occurred.

The driver of V2, a 46 year-old female, suffered possible injuries and was taken to a medical facility for treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle at the time of the crash. After numerous attempts, an interview with this driver could not be obtained. It is therefore uncertain if any fatigue or health related factors contributed to this crash. It is also unclear if the driver was in fact talking on the cell phone when the crash took place.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was: other vehicle encroachment, turning in opposite direction. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No other associated factors were coded for this vehicle.