The crash occurred in an intersection where a two-lane north/southbound roadway intersected with a two-lane east/westbound roadway. Each roadway was physically undivided and each had posted speed limits of 40 kmph (25 mph). Both roadways had bituminous surfaces that were dry, and their profiles were straight and level. It was a cloudy weeknight evening and traffic in this residential neighborhood was very light. Vehicles that passed through this intersection had somewhat restricted views of intersecting traffic due to the residential properties that were located on all four corners. Traffic lights on all four corners controlled the movement for all directions of travel.

V1, a 2006 Dodge Charger with driver as the only occupant, was traveling southbound in lane one of the north/southbound roadway. V2, a 1996 Saturn LS1 with two occupants, was traveling eastbound in lane one of the east/westbound roadway. Also heading southbound and stopped at the red light in front of V1 were two "quad-runners" (not street legal vehicles). V2 had the green light and proceeded through the intersection from the west and was struck on its left side front and passenger side by the front of V1, which had driven around the quad-runners and entered the intersection from the north. Upon impact V2 rotated slightly in a clockwise direction and traveled southeasterly through the intersection where it came to its final rest in the northbound travel lane. V1 also proceeded in a southeasterly direction where it then partially departed the roadway and struck the traffic light that was located on the southeast curb, knocking it down. Both vehicles were disabled and towed from their final rests. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the 2006 Dodge Charger was driven by a 38-year old male who was arrested at the scene for driving under the influence of narcotics. It is unknown exactly what drugs V1 driver was using but as many as six prescription bottles were counted on the floor of the driver's seat. One bottle was labeled, "oxycodone", some bottles were not labeled, and at least two of the bottles were empty. Later attempts to contact V1 driver were unsuccessful. It is unknown exactly why V1 driver chose to pass the vehicles in front of him and proceed through the red light.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was, this vehicle traveling, crossing over/passing through an intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a "driver related factor, illegal maneuver." Associated driver related factors coded to V1 driver were: driving while under the influence of narcotics, failure to stop for a traffic control device, and having a restricted sight line due to the residential property on the northwest corner. No associated vehicle factors were coded to V2.

V2, the 1996 Saturn LS1 was driven by a 22-year old male. V2 driver explained that he was on his way to work and as he neared the intersection he noticed the two quad-runners and V1. V2 driver stated, "I thought that he (V1) was going to stop and by the time I got right there (driver pointed to point of impact) he came through and hit me." V2 driver stated that he didn't even have time to apply the brakes. V2 driver acknowledged that he was having a discussion with his passenger at the time of the crash. He also stated that he was very familiar with this roadway as he drives it almost daily. V2 driver reported no injuries even though he was not wearing his safety belt. V2 occupant was transported directly from the scene with minor, non-disabling injuries and was also not wearing her safety belt according to both V2 driver and the police report.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated driver related factors coded to V1 driver were: conversing with a passenger while driving, assuming that V1 would yield the right of way, and having a restricted sight line due to the residential property on the northwest corner.