This single vehicle crash occurred during daylight hours on a two-lane, bituminous roadway. This roadway is straight and level with dirt shoulders on both sides. There is a concrete irrigation canal that runs parallel with the road located eight meters north of this roadway. The speed limit on this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). At the time of this crash, the sky was cloudy and it had been raining just prior to the time of this crash. There was a large puddle of standing water in the roadway.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Oldsmobile Alero, was eastbound at approximately 64 kmph (45 mph). As the vehicle traveled through the standing water, it began to rotate counterclockwise and traveled to the left. The driver applied the brakes and steered right to avoid the canal. The vehicle then rotated clockwise as it traveled off the left side of the roadway. The left side of the vehicle entered the concrete irrigation ditch and tripped on the ground near a driveway entrance. V1 then rolled over three quarter-turns before coming to rest on its right side facing south. The vehicle was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1, a sixteen-year-old male, was traveling from his high school to his home. He had been running and working out with weights in preparation for the upcoming football season, which was his normal routine. He was well rested and in good health. He drives this vehicle on this road often, but has been driving for only two months. He stated that his speed was not too fast for conditions, but admitted to driving over the speed limit.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle control loss due to, traveling too fast for conditions. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as an Environment related factor: Slick roads (low friction road surface due to ice, loose debris, any other cause. The driver did not realize how deep the standing water was on the roadway. Although it had rained earlier, it was not raining at the time. The roadside shoulder was not sloped to allow the water to drain off and therefore allowed accumulation into the traffic lanes.