The crash occurred on a weekday morning in the middle of a rural “T” intersection. The intersection consisted of a north/south US Highway with two northbound and three southbound lanes divided by a grass median and a side road that intersected from the east with one eastbound lane and two westbound lanes. The intersection was controlled by a stop sign for the side road intersected and a yield sign in the median for all traffic from the side road intending to travel south on the highway. Both roads were bituminous, straight, and level with a posted speed limit of 80kmph (50mph) and 48kmph (30 mph) on the side street. The roads were dry during the daylight hours with cloud cover at the time of the crash.

V1, a 2000 Toyota Tacoma, was stopped at the stop sign intending to turn left onto the highway. V2, a 1990 International tractor with a day cab pulling a loaded beverage trailer, was northbound in lane two approaching the intersection where it intended to go straight. A non-contact tractor-trailer was also northbound in lane one ahead of V2 slowing down as it approached the intersection where it intended to turn right. As V1 began its left turn and attempted to cross the northbound lanes of traffic it was struck on the left side by the front of V2. V2 came to rest facing north on the left shoulder of the northbound lanes of the highway and was later driven from the scene. V1 came to rest facing west in the grass off the right shoulder of the southbound lanes and was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a belted 48 year-old male who was on his morning commute. He claimed to be in good health despite suffering from chronic back pain, which he treated with prescription painkillers (of which he took roughly two hours before the crash). He stated that he turned even though he could not see around the tractor-trailer that was slowing to turn. He was transported to a local trauma center from the scene.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, crossing over passing through intersection. The Critical Reason was coded as a driver related factor, a decision error of turning with an obstructed view. Associated factors include the fact that the driver was fatigued due to having worked fifty-six hours a week for three weeks straight as well as the prescription painkillers he was taking for his back pain. A recognition error was also coded as the impending problem was masked by traffic flow (the tractor-trailer turning into the side road from the northbound lanes). The tractor-trailer also served as a sightline restriction for the driver of V1.

V2 was driven by a belted 35 year-old male in good health who on his way to make his morning delivery when the crash occurred. He stated that he was not sure why V1 tried to turn and that he slammed on his brakes to try and avoid the crash, but could not. The driver was uninjured.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded as other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to this V2 and the driver was not thought to have contributed to the crash.