This two-vehicle crash occurred during the mid-afternoon on a Tuesday. The location was an urban interchange area involving a surface street four-way intersection near an on-ramp and a freeway overpass. The weather was clear and dry. It was daylight and there were no sight restrictions. The posted speed limit for both vehicles was 56 kmph (35 mph). Traffic at the intersection is controlled by signals.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Mercury Mountaineer 4x4 four-door SUV with one occupant, was stopped eastbound in the intersection waiting for traffic to clear for a left turn across traffic to northbound to the on-ramp. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Dodge Extended Caravan with three occupants, was traveling westbound in the outside through lane approaching the intersection. The driver of V1 stated he looked at oncoming traffic, but did not see V2 entering the intersection westbound. V1 pulled forward and started the left turn and the front of V1 struck the front corner of V2. . On impact V1 rotated counter-clockwise and struck the left side of V2. V1 was disabled and loosing fluid, but the driver drove the vehicle to the northeast shoulder of the on-ramp and made a controlled stop. V1 was towed due to damage. On impact V2 was redirected toward the northwest corner of the intersection. V2 drove up over the curb and came to rest with the left front bumper corner against a guardrail. V2 was towed due to damage. None of the occupants were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 stated he looked at oncoming traffic, but did not see V2 entering the intersection westbound. The driver stated he saw another vehicle in the inside lane, but that vehicle was far enough away to allow him to make a safe left turn. He had left home approximately 20 minutes prior to the crash and was not in a hurry. He was not ill at the time, but does take Norasc, Levoxyl and Benazepril for high blood pressure and his thyroid. He was well rested, retired and not working. He is familiar with the roadway and the vehicle.

The pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason was coded: inadequate surveillance (e. g., failed to look, liked but did not see).

The driver of V2, a 45 year-old female, was traveling from school to take her daughter to piano lessons. The driver stated she was not distracted by conversation and stated she travels this roadway daily to pick up her daughters. She had just picked her daughter up less than 1.6 kilometers (1 mile) from the crash. She was well rested and has no health problems. She attempted to avoid the crash by steering right and braking.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction-over left lane line. A critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle.