This two-vehicle collision occurred on a divided, two-way, five-lane, straight, and bituminous roadway. The road is slightly uphill for eastbound travel. Heavy rainfall occurred for approximately twenty minutes before collision occurred and lightning was still flashing on the southern horizon. Posted speed is 72 kmph (45 mph) and an advisory speed limit for trucks with a weight of six tons and over is 56 kmph (35 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 GMC 6500 flatbed tow truck was traveling east in lane one with the intention of going straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Chrysler minivan was traveling east in lane one in front of vehicle one with the intention of going straight. V1 has slowed down as the driver was watching the lightning off to the south. The front of V1 impacted the rear of V2. V2 departed the roadway and the front left impacted a utility pole. V2 then rotated and the right rear tire impacted a street sign. V1 came to rest off the road to the right. V1 was not towed due to damage. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-seven year old male had just picked up a car, which was on the bed of the tow truck and was heading back to the tow yard at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about twenty minutes at the time of the crash. It was this driver's third day on the job. This driver indicated that he is taking morphine and lortab as medications for a slipped disc. As the driver was driving, it appeared to him that V2 was almost to a complete stop after it had been traveling east in lane one. This driver indicated that he was unsure what V2 was going to do. This driver did not see any brake lights. This driver stated that he applied the brakes but could not stop in time. This vehicle had both rear tires with only 68 psi of air pressure and the left front tire only had 5/32 of an inch of tread. This driver had only driven this vehicle for the last three days and only rarely on this roadway.

The driver of V2, a forty-seven year old male had just picked up the passenger and was driving to a fast food restaurant. This driver had been driving for about two minutes at the time of the crash. As this driver drove, he was engaged in conversation with passenger and looking at lightning on southern horizon. Driver reduced his velocity by removing foot off of accelerator while looking at the lightning. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.