The crash occurred at a four-way intersection. The north/south roadway was a two-way, two-lane, undivided street. The east/west roadway was a two-way, two-lane, undivided street controlled by a stop sign. These were straight, level, asphalt roads, with a posted speed in all directions of 48kmph (30 mph). Conditions were dark with streetlights on a weekday evening. Skies were clear and the roadway was dry. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 1999 Honda Civic with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane one. V2, a 1995 Honda Civic with two occupants, was traveling northbound in lane one. Both vehicles were approaching the same intersection. As the two vehicles entered the intersection, the front of V1 made contact with the left side of V2. After impact, V1 and V2 traveled toward the northeast corner of the intersection. The front of V2 made contact with a chain link fence. V2 continued through the fence. The front of V2 then made contact with a tree greater than ten centimeters in diameter. V1 and V2 came to final rest one behind the other. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 17-year old male who refused on-scene treatment. He stated that his friend had been involved in a street corner fight approximately forty-five minutes prior to the crash. When he attempted to assist his friend, he was jumped as well. The driver said that he got into his car and called the police. Just then, someone broke out his back window. The driver fled the scene. The driver of V2 began to pursue him. The driver indicated that the other driver was tailgating him and bumping his vehicle, in order to force him to lose control of the vehicle. According to the driver, the chase continued for nearly thirty minutes. Finally, the two driver's paths crossed at the intersection. Although this driver indicated that he was traveling northbound at the time of the crash, it was determined that he was actually traveling eastbound into the intersection. This detail was important because northbound traffic was uncontrolled, but eastbound traffic was controlled by a stop sign.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a decision error, illegal maneuver. The driver failed to stop for the stop sign. There were many associated factors for this driver. There were recognition factors, such as driver inattention due to a previous argument, and inadequate surveillance. There were decision factors, such as traveling too fast for conditions. Another associated factor was aggressive driving. The driver was speeding, ignoring traffic controls, and driving off the roadway. There were emotional factors as well. The driver was upset. He had been involved in a fight with the other driver, and was in a hurry to get away. There were experience related factors. The driver had no formal driver education, and had been licensed for less than two years. Finally, there was the presence of a sightline restriction. Tall shrubbery on the southwest corner of the intersection blocked the driver's view of V2.

V2 was driven by a 17-year old male, who was transported with injuries. He concurred with the other driver's account of the fight, as well as the pursuit that took place afterwards. He stated, however, that in the darkness, the witnesses had confused his Honda Civic with the other driver's Honda Civic. He said that he had chased the other driver down a dead end street. The other driver left the roadway, heading north through resident's lawns. The driver of V2 doubled back to the intersection, where he turned north. The driver of V1 got back onto the roadway at the next block, and headed east. He indicated that as he was traveling north, approaching the intersection, he and his passenger were looking farther up the road. He did not see V1 coming eastbound. He said that V1 had a stop sign, but did not reduce his speed as he entered the intersection. Physical evidence at the scene, as well as damage patterns on the vehicles, confirmed the scenario suggested by the driver of V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was other motor vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. As with V1, there were many associated factors coded to this driver. Recognition factors included driver inattention due to a preceding argument, inadequate surveillance, and the driver was conversing with his passenger at the time of the crash. There was an exterior recognition factor as well. The driver's focus was two or three blocks beyond the approaching intersection. The driver was traveling too fast for conditions, due to his pursuit of V1. Other factors for this driver included aggressive driving. The driver was speeding, tailgating, and making contact with V1 in an attempt to force him off the road. There were emotional factors. The driver was upset from the preceding fight, and was in a hurry due to the pursuit of V1. Another associated factor was experience related. The driver had no formal driver education, and had been licensed for less than two years. As with V1, there was the presence of a sightline restriction. Tall shrubbery on the southwest corner of the intersection blocked the driver's view of V1.