This crash occurred in the afternoon of a weekday on the left roadside of a two-lane residential roadway. The north/south roadway featured a lane in each direction and curved sharply to the right (until it ran east/west, radius of curvature 23m). The bituminous roadway had a negative grade greater than 2% and a posted speed limit of 40kmph (25mph) with an advisory speed of 32kmph (20 mph) within the curve itself. The roadway was dry, the traffic flow was normal, and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1998 Cadillac Deville was northbound on the roadway approaching the curve. V1 failed to negotiate the curve and drove straight off the roadway. V1 struck a boulder wall with dirt fill and shrubbery growing on the top with its front. The vehicle pushed the wall roughly 2 meters forward and came to final rest. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1, a 48 year-old male, was transported from the scene to a trauma center for treatment of minor injuries. He claimed to be in fair health and currently taking medications for a seizure disorder and stress. He stated he had gone to his bank, stopped by a friend's home and was now on his way home. The last thing he remembers is driving out of her drive way and traveling north on the roadway. He blacked out or may have even had a seizure while driving. This driver stated he has been under a lot of stress before he retired. He was having problems with his seizures and was having trouble trying to decide if he should retire early or not. He feels this is what brought on the health problems while driving.

The Critical Precrash Event was coded this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as a driver related factor, critical non-performance error- heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act. The associated factors to this vehicle were the driver's history of seizures and other health problems. The medications for his stress caused drowsiness.