This two-vehicle crash occurred around noon on a clear day. The crash occurred on a six-lane, straight, median divided, downhill, bituminous, dry roadway that runs east to west. This roadway has a posted speed limit of 113 kmph (70 mph) and goes north to south. Three lanes are reserved for northbound traffic and three lanes are reserved for southbound traffic. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions present at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Honda Accord was traveling southbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a Volvo tractor-trailer was traveling southbound in lane one adjacent to V1. A non-contact vehicle was traveling in lane three adjacent to V1. The non-contact vehicle started to encroach into lane two so the driver of V2 steered to the right to avoid the non-contact vehicle. Vehicle one departed lane two to the right encroaching into lane one. The right side of V1 contacted the left side trailer of V2. V1 then rotated clockwise and the front of the vehicle under rode the trailer and trailer frame. V1 was dragged for approximately 350 meters (1,148 feet) before both vehicles came to rest on the right shoulder of lane three of the southbound lanes. No one was reported injured in this crash and V1 was towed due to disabling damage. V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

The driver of V1 stated that he steered right into lane one because he was attempting to avoid a non-contact vehicle that encroached from his left into lane two from lane three. The driver successfully avoided the non-contact vehicle. The pre-crash critical event was coded: this vehicle traveling-over the lane line on right side of travel lane. The critical reason was coded: incorrect evasive action.

The driver of V2 advised that he had no idea that he had made contact with V1 until he looked in his left side mirror. The pre-crash critical event was coded: other vehicle encroachment-from adjacent lane (same direction)-over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.