This crash occurred in a four-way intersection. The intersection had one northbound lane, one southbound lane, two eastbound lanes, and one westbound lane. The eastbound lanes were straight with a slight downhill grade, and were bituminous with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The northbound lane was straight with an uphill grade of greater than 3%, and was bituminous with a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25mph). It was late afternoon on weekday, traffic flow was heavy, and conditions were clear.

V1 was a 1987 Oldsmobile Calais, driven by a 49 year-old female was traveling north. V2 was a 1998 Nissan Altima, driven by 27 year-old male was traveling east. V2 had a 23 year-old female passenger in position 13. V3 was a 2000 Dodge Ram 1500 that was legally parked off of the roadway in a parking lot. There were no occupants in V3. V1 was stopped at a stop sign in the northbound lane. The driver had been stopped at the sign for close to a minute waiting for traffic to clear so that she could proceed across both eastbound lanes and turn left into the westbound lane. When the driver believed the way was clear she proceeded into the intersection where V2 impacted her left side drivers door. V1 was thrown across the roadway and into an adjacent parking lot on the north side of the roadway. When V1 was forced into the parking lot it contacted V3, which was legally parked in the lot. V1 and V3 came to final rest in the parking lot and V2 came to final rest in lane two of the eastbound roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was "environmental related factor, view obstructed by other vehicle." When V1 proceeded into the intersection there was another vehicle in lane one of the eastbound lanes which was masking V2. When asked about visual obstructions the driver stated that she did not recall a vehicle in the lane blocking her view. She did however receive a concussion that left her unconscious for several minutes after the crash, and is not clear about all of the events of the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. The driver of V2 stated that there was an SUV that was in lane one preparing to turn right at the intersection, and this vehicle obstructed V1's view of V2. It should be noted that the driver of V2 was driving on a suspended license. The driver of V2 had little experience driving this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. Therefore, no Critical Precrash Event or Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle.