This crash occurred at dawn of a weekday on the left roadside of the northbound lanes of a divided rural expressway. The three-lane roadway was bituminous with a slight curve in the roadway to the left, and a posted speed limit of 113kmph (70 mph). A constant rain was falling which had soaked the roadway and caused the traffic flow to slow.

V1, a 2004 Chevrolet Trailblazer EXT, was northbound in lane two negotiating the curve. As V1 continued through the curve it began to rotate counterclockwise. The driver attempted to regain control of the vehicle by steering but was unable to do so. V1 departed the roadway to the left side still continuing to skid until its right side wheels began to stick in the soft mud. The tripping force exerted on the right side wheels caused V1 to begin to roll over. The vehicle completed nine-quarter turns, before finally coming to rest on the right side roughly 48m (157ft.) from the trip point. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1, a 22-year-old female, had just flown into town to be part of her mother's wedding that was happening the next weekend, she stated that her brother had been a run-away for the past three weeks and when she arrived at her mothers home, they were contacted by a police department who had just located him and were holding him in custody until someone could pick him up. She stated that her best friend had accompanied her for the three-hour trip, and they were on their way to her mother home after picking him up when the crash happened. The driver stated that in the past 24 hours she had spent 14 hours of that in either an airport or airplane and that she had spent most of that time sleeping. She stated that at the time of the crash she was not tired, but did have a lot on her mind. The driver was uninjured while the other occupants only sustained minor injuries and were treated on-scene.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle loss of control due to traveling too fast for conditions. The Critical Reason for this event was coded a driver related factor traveling too fast for condition (curve, wet roads). Associated factors include driver inattention and an internal distraction, as she was focused on up-coming events and talking with the other occupants of the vehicle. The fact that it was the driver's first time driving this vehicle and had not driven this road roadway in several months were also coded as associated factors.