This is a two-vehicle crash that occurred during early morning daylight hours on a five lane, two-way roadway. There are two westbound and two eastbound lanes that are separated by a continuous left turn lane. The roadway is straight, level and constructed of bituminous asphalt. The speed limit for the roadway is posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The roadway was dry and the sky was clear. There is a cross street where the crash occurred that is not related to this crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1988 Ford Aerostar van with thirteen occupants, was traveling westbound at a high rate of speed. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Ford F-250 4X4 pickup with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in the #2 lane. V-1 traveled into the eastbound #1 lane and skidded for about 14 meters (46 feet) before it struck V-2. V-2 tried to avoid V-1 by steering to the right. The front of V-1 struck the front of V-2. The impact caused V-1 to rotate counterclockwise. V-2 rolled to it's left 1 quarter turn and came to rest on it's left side facing in a southeasterly direction. V-1 came to rest near the southwest corner of the intersection facing in a southerly direction. V 1 was towed from the scene all occupants were transported to a local medical facility. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1 and 80 kmph for V2.

The driver of V 2 a 43-year old male said that he was traveling eastbound in the #2 lane at about 25 MPH. He said that he saw V-1 approaching traveling westbound. He said that it looked like it was going about 121 kmph (75 mph). He said that V-1 eventually traveled into the eastbound lanes straight for his vehicle. He said that he tried to avoid V-1 by steering to the right. He said that when he steered to the right, V-1 followed his vehicle. He said that after V-1 hit his vehicle, his vehicle rolled to the left and came to rest on it's left. He also said there was a police officer behind V-1 prior to the crash and it might have been chasing V-1. The vehicle has an after market 0.73-meters (29-inch) suspension lift. The vehicle was towed due to damage.

The pre-event movement for V 1 coded going straight,category this vehicle traveling over the lane line on left side of travel lane. Critical reason driver related factor "poor directional control (failing to control vehicle with skill ordinarily expected)".

The pre event movement for V-2 was coded going straight. The critical pre crash event was coded other vehicle encroachment-from opposite direction-over the left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

An associated factor for V 1 speeding and attempting to allude law enforcement.