A two vehicle daytime collision occurred before noon during daylight hours on a Friday morning. The collision occurred at a "T" intersection of an undivided north/south five-lane two-way arterial street with a two-way turn lane and a divided east/west three-lane two-way arterial street. Both streets are straight and level in the pre-crash directions and both are paved with bituminous asphalt. The intersection is directly under a raised highway and at the time of the crash the intersection was shaded from the bright sunlight elsewhere on the road. The speed limit for the both roads is 48 kmph (30 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Toyota Solara coupe, was heading north in lane three- the left turn lane with only a driver present in the vehicle. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Subaru Outback station wagon, was heading south in lane one with only a driver present. V1 turned left at the intersection in the path of V2. The front of V2 impacted with the right plane near the rear of V1, spinning V1 clockwise. V1 came to rest facing northeast at the northwest corner of the intersection. V2 came to rest in the intersection. V1 was towed due to disabling damage, but neither driver was transported to the hospital for injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 73-year-old female whom could not recall how the crash happened, but maintained that she always looks left and right. She claimed she looked but did not see V2 before the crash happened. She was on her way home from an errand and had only been driving about 5 minutes when the crash occurred. She reported herself to be in good health and taking Lipitor and an unspecified high blood pressure medication.

The driver of V2 was a 25-year-old male who stated that there was a truck about a half a car length in front of him in the adjacent lane 2. He stated that the probable course of events was that after the truck passed by V1, the driver of V1 then made her left turn but did not clear his vehicle. He stated he had no time to react before the collision. The driver of V2 indicated the truck in front of him in the adjacent travel lane caused a sight line obstruction with V1. This explanation matches the dynamics of the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was assigned to this driver as a driver related decision factor: other decision error (specified as: turned with obstructed view). The view of V2 was blocked by intervening vehicle, and the driver of V1 made a false assumption that it was OK to make her turn not realizing V2 was behind the truck (e.g. intervening vehicle).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction, across left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle.