This two-vehicle collision occurred during early morning daylight hours on a weekday. The crash occurred at the four-leg intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light traffic signal, and the speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph) in all directions. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse atmospheric conditions, and the roadway surface is asphalt was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Toyota Corolla four-door sedan, turned right out of a private lot and into the first lane of a five-lane, two-way, undivided, dry, level, bituminous roadway, which was just south of the intersection. V1 entered the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Toyota Highlander, was traveling westbound in the first lane of a four-lane, divided (seven lanes overall, divided by a raised median), dry, level, bituminous roadway, approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. A non-contact vehicle turned left across V1's path (into eastbound traffic), causing V1 to pause in the intersection. V1 moved ahead and V2 entered the intersection, impacting the right side of V1 with its front. Both vehicles deflected northwest to final rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 20-year-old female driver of V1 reported that she did not see V2's approach. She entered the intersection on the yellow phase of the tri-light, and as she stopped for the non-contact vehicle, the tri-light began the red phase. She collided with V2 as she tried to clear the intersection.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V 2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason was attributed to V2 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance. The 44-year-old female driver reported that a large truck was slightly ahead of her and to her left as she approached the intersection. The truck was blocking her view of northbound crossing traffic. The driver also reported that she was praying as she approached the intersection. The tri-light entered the green phase and she proceeded into the intersection. She did not see V1's approach prior to the collision.