This crash occurred at an intersection with angled roadways to the intersection. The crash occurred at night late on the weekend. The intersection was dark but lighted and had a traffic control with out pedestrian crossing. The East/West roadway was level. The roadway entering the intersection from the southwest had a slope of -5/122. The roadway entering the intersection from the southeast had a slope of +6/122. All roadways were dry asphalt. The speed was posted at 56 kmph (35mph).

V1, a 2001 GMC Jimmy was traveling west in lane three. V2, a 1995 Chevrolet Blazer was traveling northeast in lane one. As V2 entered the intersection waiting for the light to turn green V1 came to the intersection facing west waiting to make a left turn onto the street that entered from the southeast. When the light turned green V1 noted the green arrows pointing off to the southwest and thought he had the right-of-way to turn left. At the same time V2 was starting through the intersection in lane one. V1 started to make his left turn contacting V1's front with V2's front left fender. V1 did not note the sign stating no left turns onto the street he was turning onto. The arrows were to turn onto the southwest roadway. Both vehicles came to final rest at point of contact. The drivers were not injured from the crash but the occupant in V2 obtained an injury and was transported to the local trauma unit to be checked out. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, a 2001 GMC Jimmy was driven by a 43 year-old male that states he is in good health and is taking no medications at this time and stated he only wears corrective lenses for reading. He stated he was on his way home from a friends home at the time of the crash. He also stated he rarely drives this roadway. He stated as he sat waiting to turn left he did not note the sign stating 'No left turns' onto the street he was intending to turn. He said a young lady standing on the corner of the intersection distracted him. When he saw the green arrows he thought he had the right-of-way.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded “this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded driver related factor “exterior distraction.” The associated factor to this driver was he rarely drives this roadway and that he was distracted. He was turning left onto a street that was an illegal left turn.

V2, a 1995 Chevrolet Blazer was driven by a 35 year-old female that states she is in good health but is taking medications for diabetes and wears corrective lenses for myopic - near sightedness. She stated that she had just dropped off her daughter's friend and was on their way back home. She said that when they came to the intersection there were no other vehicles. She stated they sat stopped for 10 seconds or more waiting for the light to turn green. When the light turned green she noted a vehicle in the left turn lane. As they started into the intersection the vehicle started to make a left turn into her path contacting her vehicle at the front left corner. She stated that both vehicles came to final rest in the middle of the intersection.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded “other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line.” The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. The associated factors to this driver were that she was conversing with the other occupants in the vehicle and was not attentive to the other vehicle in the intersection.