This two-vehicle collision occurred during pre-dawn hours on a weekend. The crash occurred at the four-leg intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway. The intersection is controlled by stop signs for northbound and southbound traffic, and the speed limit is 89 kmph (55 mph) in all directions. The south leg of the intersection is a three-lane, two-way, curved, level, bituminous roadway. The east-west roadway is a six-lane, two-way, curved, level, bituminous roadway. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions, and the road was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Volkswagen Jetta 4-door sedan, was stopped facing northbound at the intersection in the second lane, and was waiting to turn left into westbound traffic. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Nissan Altima, was traveling eastbound and approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. As V1 made its turn, the front of V2 impacted the left side of V1. The vehicles rotated towards each other and the right side of V2 contacted the left side of V1 in a side-slap configuration. The vehicles separated and came to rest in the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 23-year-old male driver of V1 could not be interviewed. He reported to police that he was waiting to turn left, and he thought that crossing traffic was clear before proceeding. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related recognition error, inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

The 36-year-old male driver of V2 reported that he was on his way to a swap meet with his son, and had just left home. He had been driving for about 5-10 minutes prior to the crash. He reported that he could see V1 stopped and waiting to turn left. He assumed that V1 would remain stopped. When V1 began its turn, the driver of V2 applied the brakes and skidded forward, but was unable to avoid the collision. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.