This crash occurred in an intersection of two undivided two lane straight roadways.

The posted speed limit for both roadways was 48KMPH (30MPH). There is a flashing warning signal for both roadways. The weather was clear and the roadway was dry.. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

This crash occurred on a weekday afternoon.

Vehicle #1 a 2004 Nissan Sentra was traveling south on the roadway when it approached the intersection. Vehicle #2, a 2003 Honda Odyssey, was traveling southwest and had stopped at a stop sign awaiting passing traffic. Vehicle #2 was waved out from the stop sign position by an uninvolved motorist and proceeded into the intersection.

Vehicle #1 impacted the front of Vehicle#2 with its right front. Both vehicles came to final rest in the intersection.

Vehicle #1 (2004 Nissan Sentra) was driven by a belted 67 year old female who stated she did not have time to take any avoidance actions. She also stated her sight line was impaired by a truck parked on the right side of the roadway just prior to the intersection.

This driver refused medical treatment at the scene.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this Vehicle was: Other Vehicle Encroachment,

From Crossing Street, turning into opposite direction.

The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle.

Vehicle #2 (2003 Honda Odyssey) was driven by a belted 40 year old female who stated she had been waiting at the intersection for traffic to pass, for 5 to 10 seconds, when she was waved out into the intersection by an uninvolved motorist. She, also, stated a truck was parked to her left on the other roadway and it was blocking her sight line. This driver refused medical treatment at the scene.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this Vehicle was: This Vehicle Traveling, Turning Left at Intersection,

The Critical Reason for the Critical Event Precrash Event was coded as: Driver Related Factor, Inadequate Surveillance.

The Police did not consider alcohol or illegal drugs to be a factor in this crash and ordered no tests for either driver.