This two-vehicle collision occurred at the intersection of a four-lane road and a five-lane roadway. The intersection is controlled by a stop light with pedestrian controls. Both roads have a speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). The northbound road has four lanes and has a negative eight percent slope. One of the northbound lanes was restricted due to a work zone beginning on the other side of the intersection. The eastbound road has five lanes of traffic with two lanes in each direction and a left turn lane for eastbound traffic. The eastbound road has a negative five percent slope. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1991 Chevrolet S-10 was traveling north in the second lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Mitsubishi Galant was traveling east in the second lane. The front of V2 impacted the left of V1. Both vehicles rotated and the left of V1 impacted the right of V2. Both vehicles came to rest in the westbound lanes. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-year old male was heading to work at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for less than one-half hour at the time of the crash. This driver stated that he had a yellow light when he proceeded through the intersection. This driver stated that he was looking for a parking spot to park in to go to work. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of V2, a twenty-five year old female was taking the passenger to day care at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for less than thirty-minutes at the time of the crash. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over [passing through] intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.