A two-vehicle collision occurred on a Wednesday evening. It was dusk with streetlights on at the time. The collision occurred at a four-leg intersection. The north/south roadway has five lanes including a left turn pocket and bike lanes on both sides. The roadway is dry, level and made of asphalt. The roadway is designated 64 kmph (40 mph). The intersection is controlled by a tri-light signal, which was working properly at the time.

Vehicle one (V1) is a 1998 Ford Mustang 2-door coup, traveling south in the number three lane. Vehicle two (V2) is a 1994 Ford Explorer XL 4x4 2-door sport utility, traveling north in the number two lane. As V1 made a left turn its front impacted V2's front plane. V1 came to rest facing northeast in the intersection. V2 came to rest facing northwest in the intersection. Both vehicles were towed with major damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 23-year-old male. He refused the interview at the hospital but was overheard by the researcher saying, "where did the other vehicle come from I never saw it". A similar statement by the driver to the investigating officer was reported in the PAR narrative. At the time of vehicle inspection, the researcher also observed the windows of V1 to be very dirty.

The driver of V2 is a 29-year-old female with 13 years of driving experience. She was on her way to contractor's school from work at the time of the crash and was already 15 minutes late when the crash occurred. Her job requires her to meet a tight unrealistic schedule. She was listening to the radio as she drove. The driver indicated that she suffers from PMS and has had Lasik eye surgery to correct her vision. She told the researcher that she entered the intersection on a green light and V1 did not slow down prior to making the left turn at the intersection. This description supports what the driver of V1 to the investigating officer stated, that he did not even see V2 prior to the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling - turning left at intersection. Based on his statement to the officer at the hospital, the critical reason was assigned to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment - from opposite direction over the left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to the driver of V2.