This three-vehicle daytime collision occurred on a weekday. The crash occurred on a curved stretch of a six-lane, positively divided, concrete expressway. The left-most lane was designated for high-occupancy vehicles only. The speed limit in the area of the crash was 105 kmph (65 mph). At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Volkswagen GTI hatchback, was traveling southbound in the fifth lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Toyota Tundra pickup, was traveling southbound in the third lane, slightly behind V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 2001 Nissan Frontier pickup, was traveling southbound in the second lane, slightly behind V2. As all three vehicles approached an interchange area, V1 veered right towards the exit lanes. As V1 crossed the third lane, the right side of V1 impacted the left side of V2. V2 veered right and the right side of V2 impacted the left side of V3. V1 and V2 both rotated clockwise. V1 rolled four quarter-turns towards its left side and then departed the road to the right, where its left side broke through a guardrail. V1 came to rest on the roadside. V2 departed the road to the right side, where its left side struck a light pole and its left wheel struck the left curb-line. V2 rolled two quarter-turns towards its left side and came to rest on the roadside with its top plane in contact with the ground. V3 came to a controlled stop along the right shoulder. Police Reported Travel Speed is 129 kmph for V1 and 129 kmph for V2.

The 21-year-old male driver of V1 could not be interviewed. The driver reported to police that he had been "weaving in and out of traffic" and traveling 113-129 kmph (70-80 mph). The critical pre-crash event was V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the right side. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded as a driver-related decision error: aggressive driving behavior.

The driver of V2 is a 60-year-old male with 38 years of driving experience but only two years in this type of vehicle. He has no driver's training. He is both near and far sighted. He was wearing his prescription glasses at the time. He is on disability leave from work due to a shoulder surgery that occurred a month earlier. He has been going to rehabilitation three days a week. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment/ from adjacent lane (same direction)- over left lane line. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.

The 25-year-old male driver of V3 was on a work-related errand when the crash occurred, and was in a company vehicle. He reported that he was experiencing the early symptoms of a cold, and the music was playing in the vehicle at the time of the crash. He has been driving for four years, and has had no driver training. V3 was not involved in the first harmful event & the critical reason was not attributed to this vehicle.