This daytime, two-vehicle, interstate/interchange entry ramp rear end collision occurred when one light vehicle struck the rear bumper of a John Deere tractor/hoe. The entrance ramp is one-way, one-lane, bituminous, curved right with a 6% slope, and a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The south roadway is one-way, two-lanes, concrete, straight, level, and has a posted speed limit is of 97 kmph (60 mph). No adverse weather conditions present at the time of collision.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Pontiac G6 sedan driven by a fifty one ( 51) year-old male, was traveling south in lane one with the intention of merging onto the interstate. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 John Deere back hoe driven by a fifty one (51) year old male, was traveling south on the shoulder of the interstate approaching the on-ramp lane. V2 had merged from the interstate shoulder through the gore area and onto the on-ramp lane and the front of V1 impacted the rear of V2. V1 rotated clockwise after impact and came to rest diagonally across painted median and travel lane facing northwest. After impact V2 departed the right side of the on-ramp lane, and came to rest on the right side of the roadway. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was commuting to work from home. Driver takes no medication, was well rested, and is familiar with roadway. According to driver, he was proceeding up the ramp and was going to merge into interstate. He acknowledge sun glare, but was not sure if he was adjusting his visor at the time of collision. Nonetheless, he failed to notice V2, which had merged into his lane seconds before the collision, and V1 collided into the rear of V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with lower steady speed. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as an environment related factor: glare. The driver was driving into the morning sun rise.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason not coded to this vehicle.