This single-vehicle crash occurred along a rural stretch of undivided two-lane bituminous roadway. The southbound approach curved left with a slight super-elevation. This S-shaped roadway then straightened out for 67.1 meters (221 feet) before beginning to curve right. There were 0.7 meter (2.3 feet) paved shoulders on both sides of the roadway. Beyond the paved shoulders were negatively sloped grass ditches on both sides of the road. The authorized speed limit was 72 kmph (45 mph) with an advisory speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred during the early afternoon hours on a weekday. Conditions were daylight, sunny and dry with very light traffic conditions.

Vehicle one was a 2000 Mitsubishi Montero sport utility vehicle with one occupant traveling southbound at a high rate of speed. After V1 successfully negotiated the left curve, it ran off the road to the right. V1 traveled 117.8 meters (386 feet) off the right side of the road. V1 then re-entered the roadway, crossed the double yellow line and departed the road to the left. V1 then steered right to avoid colliding with a tree, but was unsuccessful. The left rear of V1 struck two large trees (event 1), causing the closed tailgate to be ripped off the vehicle and travel 20.8 meters (68 feet) to the opposite side of the roadway. V1 then overturned, right side leading (event 2). The driver was then ejected and traveled approximately 22.9 meters (75 feet) before coming to final rest along the wood-line in some under-brush. V1 rolled 41 meters (135 feet), 10 quarter-turns, and struck three trees along the way with its front-end (event 3, 4, and 5). V1 came to final rest in the grass ditch on its top facing south. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1 was a 44 year-old female who was killed when she was ejected from her vehicle during the rollover sequence. Family members reported that she was in good physical condition; she didn't wear corrective lenses, take any medications or drink alcohol to their knowledge. She was the oldest of her three sisters and two brothers. She had been laid off from her job two months prior, at an employer where she had worked for several years. Due to her layoff and lack of employment, she was unable to make her car payment recently; therefore the lender switched the ignition off, disabling the car from being driven. Her younger brother was brutally murdered five months before in a drive-by shooting, and she had never recovered emotionally from that. Recently she had decided to leave her husband due to marital problems. She was under very "heavy stress" from all of life's problems and often met with her sister and just sat around and cried. On the morning of the crash, the last person to have contact with the driver was the sister. When she talked to the driver, she sounded upset and was looking for someone's car to borrow, but didn't specify where she was going. Her sister was using her vehicle, so she decided to use her husband's Mitsubishi Montero since he was in bed sleeping due to working the night before. Nobody knew why the driver was on the road on which the crash occurred - it was 30 miles south of the town in which she lived. They believed that she had only been on that roadway once or twice. They knew of nobody who lived out that way and were still actively looking for answers as to why she was so far from home. The vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling rollover damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded "Poor directional control - failure to control vehicle with skill ordinarily expected," a driver related error. This driver was under the influence of alcohol at the time of the crash. Her BAC ranged from 0.16 to 0.19 in two different post-mortem toxicology tests. This driver suffered from personal, emotional, financial and family problems. Inattention was also coded as an associated factor, as was excess speed. She reportedly was uncomfortable with this vehicle's handling. The oversized tires made the vehicle shake badly at highway speeds. Due to the lack of adequate tread depth, this vehicle had not been able to have a yearly state inspection. She was most likely not familiar with this roadway being that she lived 35 minutes away and rarely traveled to this county.