The crash occurred at the intersection of a north/south primary arterial and an east/west secondary arterial road. It was a four way intersection controlled by traffic signals on colors with pedestrian signals. The south leg of the intersection consisted of three northbound lanes (lanes 1 and 2 were through lanes, lane 3 was a left turn only lane) separated from two southbound lanes by a raised concrete median (curb height). The west leg of the intersection had a total of six lanes. Lane 1 was eastbound right turn only, 2 was a through lane as was 3, 4 was a left turn only lane and then there were two westbound lanes (5 and 6). There was a positive 6.3 percent grade on the eastbound approach to the intersection although the intersection itself was level. Both approaches mentioned were straight. Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight and dry on a weekday in the early evening. The eastbound approach had a speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph) and the northbound approach had a speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph).

V1 was a 1998 Oldsmobile Eighty-Eight that was traveling east in lane two of the secondary road when it passed into the intersection on a red light and was struck on the right side by the front of V2, a 2002 Dodge stratus that was traveling north in lane two of the primary road whose light had just turned green and was just starting into the intersection. V2 then rotated slightly clockwise and the left side of its front bumper struck the right side of V1. V2 continued to rotate right where it crossed into lane 1 northbound and its right front corner struck the left front of V3, a 1995 Chevrolet Corsica that had started through the light from a stop with V2. V2 and V3 came to rest at their impact location and were both towed from the scene. V1 traveled into lane two on the east leg of the intersection (former lane 3 eastbound) and came to rest facing east. V1 was driven away. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 50 year-old belted female who was uninjured in the crash. She told the researcher that her passenger (riding in row 2) was talking to her and distracting her. She said she looked forward and was in the intersection getting hit. She also claimed to have not seen the light change from green to red. Neither she, nor her sixty-two-year-old-male passenger, was injured in the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "other vehicle encroachment from crossing street across path". The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. D1 was also coded as having failed to look far enough ahead. The illegal maneuver was also coded.

V2 was driven by a belted 45 year-old female who was transported to an area hospital with possible injuries. She was on her way home from a meeting for work at the time of the crash and was admittedly "tired". She said she didn't remember when she first saw V1.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was “this vehicle crossing over (passing through) the intersection. The critical reason was coded “inadequate surveillance”. D2 was coded as fatigued. She was also taking several medications for high blood pressure, diabetes, allergies, anxiety and GERD. She was coded as having failed to look to the side (her left). She was also apparently stressed by her job.

V3 was driven by a 57 year-old belted female who was uninjured in the crash. She was on her way home from work at the time of the crash.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event and did not have a critical reason attributed to it. D3 was taking medication and had high blood pressure at the time of the crash and was also under treatment for sleep apnea. No contributing factors were coded to this vehicle either.