The crash occurred on a two-way, two-lane roadway. This was a level, asphalt roadway, which curved to the left. The posted speed for this street was 40 kmph (25 mph), and the advisory speed limit for the curve was posted at 24 kmph (15 mph). Conditions were dark with streetlights on a weekend evening. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 1997 Suzuki Esteem with one occupant, was traveling southeast in lane one, approaching a left curve in the roadway. As the driver entered the curve, the vehicle traveled off the edge of the road on the right side. The front of V1 made contact with a large tree. The vehicle was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1.

The Suzuki Esteem was driven by a 33-year old male, who was not injured. He was somewhat unsure exactly what he was doing at the time of the crash. The driver stated that he had six beers and a bottle of wine within a relatively short period of time, prior to leaving his house in search of some marijuana. He blacked out as he entered the curve. The driver had no recollection of subsequent events.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was acoded "heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act". Vehicle damage suggested that the driver attempted to negotiate the curve at a speed greater than the posted speed limit for the curve. One associated factor for this motorist was a driver-related critical non-performance error. Specifically, the driver was intoxicated, with a .167 BAC level. In addition, there were emotional factors. The driver suffered from alcoholism and depression. Another associated factor was a roadway-related lane delineation problem. The street had recently been repaved, and the lane markings had not yet been added. Furthermore, there was an experience-related factor. This was the first time driving on the roadway for the motorist, who was in an unfamiliar area.