This two-vehicle crash occurred at an intersection with a driveway without traffic signals. The road is a 4-lane divided (no positive barrier) asphalt roadway from north to south. It is a two lane (two-way traffic) undivided driveway from east to west. The west leg of the intersection is the exit/entrance road of an apartment complex. The speed limit for the north to south roadway is 56 kph (35 mph). The speed limit for the exit road is 48 kph (30 mph). The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash. It was early morning daylight hours on a weekday and there was little to medium traffic on the roadways. The north-south street had a 3.3 % up hill slope. The pre-crash area for the north-south direction was a hillcrest.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Ford Explorer with four occupants, was stopped facing east at the private drive, waiting to turn left. She had been stopped for more than ten seconds. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Dodge Ram Pickup with one occupant, was traveling south in the second lane. It was pulling a flatbed trailer carrying a concrete mix machine. At the intersection, the front of V2 impacted the left side of V1. V1 rotated clockwise; V2 rotated counter clockwise and the vehicles side slapped. V2 moved to its left and came to rest partially in the left turn lane of the northbound lanes. V1 entered the southbound lanes and mounted the curbed median where the vehicle came to rest, about 60 meters (197 feet) from the intersection, facing south. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 27-year old female drove V1, the 1994 Ford Explorer. Her husband was interviewed at the scene. He provided the driver's description of the events as he obtained it from her right after the crash. The first thing he pointed out was his wife telling him she saw V2 at the fourth utility pole from the intersection. In her recall V2 was so fast, it reached the intersection within seconds. The driver said she tried to accelerate but V2 was too fast. The utility pole was measured at 130 meters (427 feet) from the intersection. The driver of V1 was well rested and did not take any medication. She was on her daily routine to take her children to school and had just left her apartment located at the crash site.

The critical pre crash event for V1 was coded "other; turning left from driveway." The critical reason for the critical event was coded "misjudgment of other vehicle's speed and gap in traffic."

A 27-year old male, who reported light injuries, drove V2, the 2003 Dodge Ram. He stated he was in the second lane, traveling at a normal rate of speed. He was heading to work from his brother-in law's residence. He does not take any medication and is in good heath. He drives on the roadway on a daily basis. He was well rested and had traveled 15 kilometers (9 miles) from his brother-in law's residence to the crash site. He was not in hurry and traveling within the speed limit. The driver applied the brakes prior to the crash but could not avoid V1.

The critical pre crash event for V2 for was coded "other vehicle encroachment-from driveway, turning into opposite direction". No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle.