This two-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of a four-way intersection. There was one each southbound/northbound non-physically divided lanes and one each eastbound/ westbound non-physically divided lanes. Curbside parking was permitted on the sides of all travel directions. Signalized traffic control devices controlled the movement through the intersection. The bituminous covered roadways were dry, level, and straight, and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit for all directions of travel was 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during the early-morning daylight hours. The traffic flow was normal for this roadway and there were no noticeable defects.

Vehicle one, a 1995 Chevrolet Suburban, was traveling northbound on the two-way northbound/southbound roadway when it contacted with its front the front of vehicle two, a 1996 Ford Explorer, traveling southbound in the opposite direction through the same intersection. After the initial impact, V1 traveled a few feet rotating slightly clockwise where it came to final rest continuing to face the northward direction. Vehicle two, after the impact, continued traveling and turning in its intended eastbound direction and came to final rest in the eastbound travel lane facing eastward. Both vehicles suffered severe disabling damages and were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a 31-year old female, said she was traveling northbound, travel speed approximately 56kmph (35mph) about to enter the busy intersection on the steady green light. When she got to just about the middle, she observed the other vehicle (V2) traveling in the opposite direction, southbound attempting to make a left turn. She first noticed V2 stopped, appearing to be waiting for clearance and then all of a sudden speed up crossing in front of her vehicle and the two vehicles collided. She began her trip just a few minutes ago. She's a stay-home mom taking her two kids to school. She travels on this roadway through this busy intersection daily. We both had the green light, but she had the right of way. She's been the vehicles owner for approximately four-months. Neither she nor her two passengers were injured.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 is: "other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction - over the left lane line". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle include: talking with passengers and listening to the radio, a possible distraction.

The driver of V2, a 51-year old female, said she was traveling southbound before attempting to make a left turn eastbound. She stopped, before entering the intersection and waited for clearance, the opposing vehicles to past. She also saw V1 traveling in the opposite direction, and at first she wasn't sure if V1 saw her traveling in the opposite direction, so she eased forward slowly and then accelerated continuing with her intended left turn and when she did V1 struck her vehicle. She assumed V1 was going to stop and let her make her left turn. This is a busy intersection. She guesses she was in the wrong, she offered. She was transported from the scene by medics directly to the hospital with non-life threatening injuries.

Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 is: "this vehicle traveling, turning left at the intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event is: "false assumption of other's actions”, a decision error. Associated factors coded to the driver include: proceeded with insufficient clearance, false assumption, assumed other driver would yield the right-of-way.