The crash occurred on a two-way, four-lane straight, urban road where it intersects with a two-way, two-lane residential street. The bituminous roadway has a posted speed limit of 72 kph (45 mph) and is a 3% downhill slope. Conditions at the time of the weekday morning crash were daylight, clear and dry.

V1, a 1998 Ford Windstar minivan driven by a 48 year-old female was northbound on the roadway in lane two traveling 40 mph. The driver stated that she was listening to her mother-in-law in the front right seat talking, and was taking her to the beauty salon. The driver stated that she looked to the left out of her window at a row of garages. The driver looked back to the road and saw v2 stopped in the lane in front of her. The driver stated that she tried to brake at the last moment but the front of v1 struck the back of v2 in lane two. V1 came to rest in lane two facing north and was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver and passengers (77 year-old female in front right, 6 year old male in second row left side) refused treatment at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 2007 Ford Mustang GTC6 2 door convertible was driven by a 58 year-old male traveling northbound in lane two on his way from home to a dealership to get his oil changed. The driver stated that a vehicle stopped in front of him to wait for traffic to clear to turn left. The driver of v2 was stopped for 3-4 seconds and saw v1 in his rear view mirror approaching too fast to stop in time to avoid the crash. The driver of v2 kept his foot on the brake to avoid hitting the vehicle in front of him.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to v1 was 'other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction-stopped'. The Critical Reason coded to this driver was 'external distraction-looking at garage on left side of road'. A contributing factor coded was 'false assumption of other road users actions-would continue to proceed'. Associated factors coded were ''conversing with passenger' and 'irritated and weary of listening to passenger complaining constantly'.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to v2 was 'other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed'. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded for this driver was for 'possible side effects for the prescribed medication he takes for heart condition and high cholesterol'.