The crash occurred on a two-way, four-lane, straight, level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph), just prior to where it lowers to 40 kmph (25 mph). Conditions at the time of the weekday morning crash were daylight, cloudy and dry.

V1, a 2001 Oldsmobile Intrigue 4-door sedan driven by a 30 year-old male on his way to work, exited the interstate highway after 85 miles and stopped at a store. V1 pulled out of the store behind a large truck and proceeded southbound on the road in lane one traveling 56 kmph, beginning to decelerate due to the speed limit change ahead. The driver stated that he was 3-4 car lengths behind the truck (V2) when it stopped suddenly in the road ahead of him. The driver stated that he may have glanced down at the clock for a second, looked up and saw the truck stopping. The driver of V1 braked (full ABS application) but could not stop in time. The front of V1 struck the back of V2 in lane one. The driver of V1 said that he did not swerve into the left turn lane because he could not see if it was clear in time. V1 came to rest behind V2 and was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver denied injuries at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 50 year-old male drove V2, a 2005 International DT466 4300 10.6m long straight truck, on his way to a work delivery site. The driver had driven 120 miles from home, exited the interstate highway, stopped for coffee and then pulled out southbound on the road. The driver, unfamiliar with the area, went past the entrance ramp for the southbound highway and entered a "NO TRUCK" zone. When the truck driver realized it, he stated that he checked his mirrors and did not see anyone behind him, and so he stopped the truck and was intending to back up to the entrance ramp. V2 was drivable after the crash and the fully restrained driver denied injuries.

The Critical Pre-crash Event coded to the driver of V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane-stopped." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded was "internal distraction" because the driver stated that he looked down at the clock, and when he looked up the truck had stopped. Contributing factors coded to this driver were following too closely to respond to unexpected actions of others and inattention due to thinking of future work events later in the day.

The Critical Pre-crash Event coded to the driver of V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Contributing factors coded to this driver were unfamiliarity with the roadway, which caused him to miss his turn to the entrance ramp, unfamiliarity with the vehicle because it was his first time driving the truck, and an illegal maneuver for entering a "No truck" zone.