This crash occurred in eastbound lane one of a four lane undivided roadway at a parking lot entrance. There were two westbound and two eastbound lanes. This was a straight, level bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 MPH). It was early evening on a weekday and the road was congested with rush hour traffic. The road was dry and skies were clear.

V1, a 2005 Ford Escape SUV, was stopped in the westbound lane two waiting for traffic to clear so it could turn left into a parking lot. V2, a 2001 Ford Explorer SUV was traveling in eastbound lane one and noticed traffic backed up in lane two. V1 was "waived on" by a driver stopped in eastbound lane two. V1 proceeded to turn and was struck on the right side by V2's front. V1 came to rest in a planter bed in the parking lot. V2 came to rest in the parking lot driveway blocking the exit. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 49-year-old female, reported no injuries. She stated that she was stopped waiting to turn left when another driver waived her on. She never saw prior to the crash and did not attempt any avoidance actions.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason was a decision error, false assumption of other's actions. When V1 was waved on by a stopped motorist she believed everyone was stopped and the coast was clear, this was not the case. Associated factors include a view obstruction (other vehicles on the road), which impaired the driver's ability to see approaching traffic in lane one and the rush hour congestion.

The driver of V2, a 31-year-old female, suffered unknown injuries but was not transported. She stated that she was on her way home from a difficult day when V1 just turned in front of her. She did not attempt any avoidance actions.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors include work related stress, rush hour traffic, and sun glare.