The crash occurred in an intersection of a divided north/south roadway and an exit from a shopping plaza (one lane). In the southbound lanes there were 2 straight lanes and one right-turn only lane that ended prior to the intersection. The southbound lanes were straight, level, and bituminous with a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). The intersection was controlled by a flashing signal - yellow for southbound traffic and red for traffic exiting the plaza. It was the early evening on a weekday. The roads were dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was a little heavy.

V1, a Plymouth Neon 4-door sedan, was driven by a 19-year old female who had a 40-year-old female passenger in the vehicle with her. V1 was exiting the shopping plaza with the intention of turning left to travel north. V1 had a flashing red light. After stopping for an unknown amount of time, V1 entered the intersection to initiate the left turn. V2, a 2002 Ford Explorer utility vehicle, was traveling south in lane two. As V1 crossed over lane one into lane two, its left front side was struck by the front of V2. This impact caused V1 to rotate 45 degrees, and the left side of V1 struck the right side of V2. V2 came to final rest facing south in the grassy median that separated the southbound lanes from the northbound lanes. V1 came to final rest facing south in the second southbound lane. The driver of V1 was transported due to possible injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 stated that she entered the intersection but did not see V2 as she crossed through. The driver of V1 would only provide a brief statement about the crash. Shortly after the interview began, a male relative got on the phone and stated that the driver would not answer any more questions. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was inadequate surveillance, a driver related error. No additional associated factors could be coded to the driver of V1 because of the lack of interview.

V2, the 2002 Ford Explorer, was driven by a 19-year-old female who had a 32-year old female occupant in the passenger seat. V2 was traveling southbound in lane two. As V2 was traveling through the intersection, V1 entered the intersection. V2 then struck V1. V2 departed the roadway on the left side of traffic and came to rest on the grassy median. The driver stated that she was traveling about 20-25 mph in the far left lane. She said she did not see V1 because there was another SUV that was traveling in the lane to her right a little ahead of her and that it had tint on the windows. She said the signal was flashing yellow so she proceeded with caution. She said that when she entered the intersection, she saw V1. She slammed on her brakes but could not avoid V1. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to the driver were unfamiliarity with the roadway and a sightline restriction caused by the non-contact vehicle in the adjacent lane.