This two vehicle daytime collision occurred shortly after midday at a four-leg intersection comprised by a north/south roadway and an east/west roadway. The north/south roadway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of four lanes, including a right-turn only lane. The east/west roadway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of seven lanes. Both roadways area designated 56 kmph (35 mph) zones. The intersection is controlled by on-color signals that were functioning at the time of the collision.

Vehicle one (V1) is a 2000 Honda Odyssey mini-van, driven by a thirty six (36) year old male who was traveling southbound in the number two lane. Vehicle two (V2) is a 1993 Ford Escort two-door hatchback, driven by a sixty five (65) year old female who was traveling westbound in the number three lane. As V2 entered the intersection, the front plane of V1 contacted its right plane. Both vehicles rotated clockwise as they traveled towards the southwest corner. V1 came to rest facing northeast, blocking the eastbound number one lane. V2 came to rest facing northeast, blocking the eastbound number two and three lanes. V1 suffered moderate damage and was towed from the scene. V2 received major damage and was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The witness was waiting for a bus on the southwest corner of the intersection and had a good view of the crash and the traffic controls. He stated that V2 definitely ran the red light

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle. The driver of V1 entered the intersection on a green light and observed V2 as they arrived at the crosswalk. The driver of V1 assumed V2 would stop and yield the right of way to his vehicle but V2 kept driving into the intersection.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V2 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). This driver stated that he never saw V1 prior to the impact. He claimed he also had a green light, but the witness confirmed it was red for him, so the driver also made an illegal maneuver, for disregard of traffic signals. This driver also suffers from high blood pressure, discogenic disease in her spine, and high cholesterol. She takes the medications takes Prozac, Levastatin, and Lisinopril.