This single-vehicle crash occurred in a traffic circle controlled with yield and one-way signs. On the south entrance to the traffic circle (roundabout), the roadway is divided by a raised brick median and the northbound traffic lanes consist of two through/implied right turn lanes into the roundabout. This roadway is straight, level, curves to the right as it enters the roundabout, and has a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The roundabout is elevated above street level and was covered with a blanket of snow. The roadway was wet. This crash occurred during nighttime hours with roadway illumination; traffic flow was light.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Kia Sedona with two occupants, was northbound in lane two, approaching the roundabout. The signage indicated that traffic in the circle had right-of-way and that the direction for entering the circle was one-way to the right. V1 proceeded to go straight and impacted the raised brick traffic circle with its front. V1 became airborne at this point and impacted a one-way sign with its front. V1 stayed airborne for approximately 2 meters (7 feet), traveled another 17 meters (56 feet) across the traffic circle, and came to rest on the north edge of the traffic circle facing north-northwest. V1 was towed due to damage. Neither of the occupants was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1, a thirty-eight-year-old male, was on his way from a church meeting to his home. Looking at his GPS display, which did not indicate anything except a straight road ahead, distracted him. He saw the snow-covered traffic circle from some distance away and thought it was just a snow-covered straight road. He evidently was studying his GPS more closely as he drew nearer to the roundabout, because he didn't see the yield and one-way signs. He was talking to his passenger, a fellow minister, about the meeting that had just taken place; he works long hours sometimes at his job, which has a variety of concerns and causes him some stress. He reported being well rested, comfortable with his vehicle, and in very good health. Other associative factors for this driver include first time on the roadway and inexperience with traffic circles.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, end departure. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction, for looking at the GPS display.