This crash occurred in the northbound lane of a three lane non-divided roadway. There were two northbound lanes, one of which was a right turn only and one southbound lane. This was a straight roadway with a slightly downhill grade level and the posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph). The eastbound roadway had three lanes, two east bound, one of which was a left turn only and one westbound lane the roadway had a vertical profile and was curved to the left with a more noticeable downhill grade level and the posted speed limit was 32 kmph (20 mph). Overhead and standard traffic signals controlled the movement of traffic through the intersection. The traffic flow was normal for this roadway.

V1, a 1999 Ford Explorer SUV, was traveling northbound in lane two, the lane designated for the continuation of northbound traffic when it contacted with its front the right side of vehicle two, a 2005 Odyssey van, traveling eastbound entering the intersection. After the initial impact, V1 continued traveling north while rotating clockwise and struck a utility pole located on the east curb edge of the intersection where it came to final rest. Vehicle two, after impact, traveled eastward and came to a controlled stop. V1 was eventually towed from the scene as a result of damages sustained. V2's damages were minor and it was not towed. The driver of V1 was transported from the scene to the hospital with non-life threatening injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a 46-year old female, was transported to the hospital by medics directly from the scene. A visit to the hospital with the hope of getting an interview proved to be unsuccessful. The emergency room was busy and the driver of V1 somehow disappeared, so, a decision was made to contact the driver later. Several messages were left on the driver's answering machine explaining the program in detail including our website validating the program. Finally, after several attempts, the driver of V1 answered the telephone and said she'd got my messages and understood the program but was not interested in participating after which she hung up the phone, not before requesting that I not call again.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) the intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "an unknown driver error, type of driver error unknown". There were no associated factors to consider because the driver refused an interview.

A witness/driver stopped at the red light on the northeast corner of the intersection intending to continue traveling southbound said he observed everything. He explained while waiting for the green light, he saw V2 traveling eastbound through the intersection on the green light, V2 got struck on the right side by V1 traveling northbound. V1 was traveling in his opposing direction, V1 ran right through the red light going really fast without stopping. He'd got off work less than 20 minutes ago and is very familiar with this roadway; he travels on it daily. If you wait here long enough, there'll be another crash, he remarked.

V2, 2005 Honda Odyssey, was driven by a 26-year old male who explained how he just got into his car a half hour ago to go home after hanging out with friends. When he got to the intersection, the light was green so he continued traveling and half way through V1 struck his vehicle on the right side. He was traveling approximately 35 mph and talking on his cell phone and listening and adjusting the radio, he said that he drives this way all the time and it does not disturb him. He was not injured.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors include: talking on the cell phone, listening and adjusting the radio, both possible distractions.