The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a five-lane undivided roadway near a 4-way intersection. There were two northbound lanes and two southbound lanes divided by a left-turn lane. This was a straight, level, bituminous, roadway with a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). The intersection was controlled by a traffic signal. It was afternoon on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear.

V1, a 1991 Ford F-150 pick-up with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane two. V1 was approaching the intersection intending to go straight. V2, a 2007 Chevrolet Malibu 4-door sedan, was stopped at a red light in lane two. The driver of V1 stated that he had just changed his alternator and was looking at his gauges. When he looked up at the roadway he saw V2 stopped in front of him. He applied the brakes trying to avoid V2 but could not stop in time. The front of V1 struck the back of V2 before they both came to final rest in the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Ford F-150, was driven by a 37-year old male. He reported no injuries and refused treatment. He stated that he had just left home and was on his way to an automotive store. He stated that he had been traveling between 34-48 kmph (21-30 mph) when he made the evasive action to avoid rear-ending V2 that was stopped in front of him. He was unable to stop in time to avoid contacting V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was: Other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The Critical Reason for the Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was a driver related factor: Internal distraction. Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 were use of seizure medication, inadequate surveillance for failing to look far enough ahead, and other non-driving activities because he was looking at the gauges.

V2, the Chevrolet Malibu, was driven by a 46-year old male. He reported injuries and was transported to a local trauma facility. He stated that he was coming from a video store and was traveling home. He stated that he had been stopped at the light when he was struck in the rear by V1.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was: Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. No Critical Reason was coded to the driver of V2. Associated factors include the use of medication to control high blood pressure and a seizure disorder. The driver also tested positive for marijuana.