The crash occurred on a two-way, two-lane, straight level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 80 kph (50 mph). Conditions at the time of the weekend afternoon crash were daylight, cloudy and wet.

V1, a 2002 Suburu Forester 4 door sports utility vehicle driven by a 55 year-old male was southeast bound on the roadway traveling 45 mph. The driver stated that he was very tired and fell asleep. V1 left the roadway on the right side. The front of v1 struck a 12x12 cm wood post mailbox, an 8x8 cm wood post and mailbox, an 8x6 cm plastic post with a newspaper box, and a 5x4 cm metal post with a newspaper box mounted on it. V1 continued off of the right side of the road in a shallow grassy ditch (45cm deep) and ramped over a driveway. V1 came down on the ditch on the other side of the driveway and continued on its wheels. The front of v1 struck another 8x8 cm wood mailbox post as it climbed out of the ditch over rocks and a driveway. V1 re-entered the road on the right side in a counterclockwise yaw with a flattened right front tire. V1 rolled 3-quarter turns with the right side leading. V1 slid on the pavement on the left side across the northwest bound lane and left the roadway on the left. V1 came to a stop across the ditch on the left side of the road and rocked back to the roof. V1 was on its roof at final rest facing northwest and was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver refused treatment at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to v1 was 'this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side'. The Critical Reason coded to this driver was 'a driver related critical non-performance error of sleeping/actually asleep'. The contributing factors coded to this driver were 'fatigue' and 'sleep and work schedule rotated in last seven days'. The driver stated that he normally sleeps only four hours per night and is always tired. Associated factors coded were for 'hearing loss-wears hearing aid', for possible side effects of his prescribed medication for high blood pressure, and for 'road conditions-wet road'.