This three-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The approaches to this intersection are straight, level and consist of two through lanes and a right turn lane separated by a painted median from the left turn lane. The speed limit on these roadways is 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Volkswagen Jetta, was northbound in the left turn lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Hyundai Tiburon, was southbound in lane three. Vehicle three (V3), a 2003 Chevrolet Trailblazer, was stopped eastbound in the left turn lane. V1 turned left in the intersection and the right side was struck by the front of V2. V1 rotated clockwise and the back struck the front of V3. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-seven-year-old female, was traveling from a store to a friend's home. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she was focused on following her friend as she turned through the intersection and accelerated when she saw V2 at the last minute.

The driver of V2, a seventeen-year-old female, was on her way to work from her home. She was well rested, healthy and comfortable with her vehicle. She drives on this road daily. This driver stated that she saw V1 and applied the brakes (skidding longitudinally) when she realized that V1 was turning in front of her.

The driver of V3, a fifty-eight-year-old male, was on his way from his home to work. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: external distraction, for focusing on a non-contact vehicle and not looking far enough ahead.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded: other; not involved first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.