The crash occurred on the grass median of a primary arterial road that ran north/south, was straight, and had a positive grade of 3.3% if southbound. There were two southbound lanes and two northbound lanes with all roadsides edged by paved shoulders. If southbound there was a negative 6.6% grade from the left road edge into the median. The crash occurred during morning rush hour on a weekday under daylight and dry conditions with a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph).

V1 was a 2001 Isuzu Rodeo traveling south in lane 2 approximately 10.6 m (35 ft) behind a dump truck (Non-Contact) when the NC vehicle apparently ran over an aluminum ladder that had fallen into the roadway. The driver of V1 stated that it "flew at me and I swerved to the right". After she had swerved to her right (entering lane 1 and the right shoulder partially) V1 came back to the left and departed the left roadside while in a counter-clockwise yaw. V1 then tripped on its wheels as they grabbed traction and rolled ¼ turn to V1's right side and came to rest facing north about 10 meters south of its trip point. V1 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

V1 was driven by a belted (lap only the shoulder portion was behind her back) nineteen-year-old female whose airbags did not deploy in the crash. She was transported to an area hospital with non-incapacitating injuries. She was on her way to work at the time of the crash. An interesting item of note is that although in the interview the driver claimed to not be in a hurry her crash time was also the time she said she had to be at work.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was driver related “overcompensation”. Following too closely due to rush hour traffic was coded to capture that her proximity to the forward (NC) vehicle may have given her less reaction time to the road hazard at an admitted speed of 57 mph than she would have had at a more proper following distance. The driver was also coded as being in a hurry for the reasons listed in the above paragraph. The driver was somewhat uncomfortable with her vehicles top heaviness with respect to the way it swayed in higher winds or when making a quick lateral movement. The NC vehicle was considered a view obstruction. The ladder in the road was considered a roadway related factor as well.