The crash occurred in the westbound lane of a five lane undivided roadway. The east/west roadway has three lanes running westbound, with lane three as the left turn lane and two lanes running eastbound. The roadway was straight and level. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekend early evening. The posted speed was 64 KPH (45 MPH). Traffic flow was normal.

V2 was a 1998 Isuzu Rodeo SUV was heading westbound in lane three the left turn lane. V1 was a 1989 Cadillac Brougham that was traveling westbound in lane three behind V2. V1 wanted to make a left hand turn at the light. The light changed from a green arrow to a solid green light when V2 slowed to yield the right of way, V1 hit the back of V2. V2 was towed due to damages and no one was injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

V1 was driven by a 31-year-old male who was on his way home from his girlfriend's house. He stated in the interview that he saw the light turn from the green arrow to the green circle but thought V2 was still going to proceed. The driver hit the gas to follow V2 through the light but V2 hit his brakes to slow and it was too late. The driver of V1 tried to stop but was not able to before he hit the back of V2. V1 was leaking fluids but the police allowed him to drive home as he lived around the corner. The driver was cited for the crash as well as no proof of insurance.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was “other motor vehicle in lane traveling in the same direction while decelerating”. The Critical Reason was a driver error, “false assumption”, as the driver stated that he saw the light turn but assumed V2 was going to make the turn, so he followed him. An associative factor was that the vehicle was his girlfriend's but he stated that he drives it all the time, as he doesn't have a car. He also stated that before the crash he was conversing with his passenger although he stated that it wasn't a distraction. V1 was not towed and no one was injury. Another associative factor was that it was rush hour.

V2 was driver by a 44-year-old male who was in lane three attempting to make a left turn. He stated in the interview that he had a green light but the arrow turned to a green solid light and the oncoming traffic had the right of way. He stated he didn't have enough time to make the turn so he hit his brakes and slowed down. He stated he had no idea he was going to get hit from behind. He said as he hit his brakes he was hit from behind with no warning.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was “other motor vehicle in lane traveling in the same direction at a higher rate of speed”. The Critical Reason was not coded to V2. V2 was towed due to damages. There were no associative factors except that it was rush hour.