The crash occurred at an intersection where the westbound lane two and the southbound lane one intersect. Lanes in all directions had twoleft turn lanes at the intersection and right turn off-ramps 40 meters prior to the intersection. There was a one meter cement median on the north side of the intersection dividing the three southbound lanes from the two northbound lanes and a 10 meter cement and grass median on the west side of the intersection dividing the two westbound lanes from the three eastbound lanes. The posted was 56 kmph (35 mph) in the east/westbound directions. This was a well-traveled, level, bituminous, straight road during the mid-evening hours on a weekday. Prior to the intersection, there was a sharp right curve for traffic in the southbound direction with a posted speed of 40 kmph (25 mph). The skies were dark and cloudy at this lighted intersection.

V1, a 2006 Chevrolet Impala 4-door sedan was driven by a 25 year-old female traveling with her 20 year-old female cousin (owner of V1) in the passenger seat, a 36 year-old male friend seated behind the driver in the 2nd row, the driver's 4 year-old daughter in the 2nd row middle seat (no child seat) and a 22 year-old male friend seated on the right in the 2nd row. This was the first time the driver had driven her cousin's car and had just come from the phone store 10 minutes prior to the crash, traveling to her home. She had been stopped in the southbound lane one, at the red light for two seconds, when an unknown female exited her vehicle from behind, and began hitting the driver's side window with a crowbar. The driver of V1 panicked, thinking she was being shot at, uttered "Oh my god" and stepped on the gas to escape. She entered the intersection without thinking of the consequences. Unfortunately, another vehicle, V2, was already passing through the intersection, westbound in lane two, when V1 crashed into the right side (rear and passenger portion) of V2 with the front of V1. The force of the crash caused V1 to come to turn 45 degrees clock-wise, coming to rest facing southwest, against the front of the median on the west side of the intersection. The driver never saw V2 prior to the crash. After the crash, the driver drove V1 into the westbound lane two, adjacent to the median, to clear the intersection. None of the occupants of V1 were injured or transported, but the driver of V1 was visibly shaken and later went to the hospital. The cousin (owner of the vehicle) drove all occupants home in V1 from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 1992 Plymouth Sundance Duster 2-door coupe was driven by a 42 year-old male traveling with his 53 year-old girlfriend in the passenger seat, her 6 year-old grand daughter behind him in the 2nd row, her 9 year-old grand daughter in the 2nd row center seat and her 1 year-old daughter in the right 2nd row seat (there was only one child booster seat in the vehicle upon inspection). The driver stated that he was driving his girlfriend's vehicle and had left her home 15 minutes prior to the crash, taking everyone to get fast food for dinner. He was traveling west in lane two at a rate of 56 kmph (35 mph), passing through the intersection when V1 suddenly came at them. He accelerated and steered left in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid being hit. The directed force of the collision caused V2 to spin 360 degrees clockwise onto the cement and grass median, located next to the westbound lane two, with the left rear portion of V2 still partially in the east bound lane two, but mostly on the median facing west. All occupants were transported due to injuries; due to the extent of the injuries and because the one year-old was unconscious, all occupants were flown to the hospital.

The Officer stated that neither witness saw V1 being attacked, nor did they hear gunshots prior to the crash.

The Pre-Crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle crossing over (passing through the) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Pre-Crash Event was "Performance error, panic". Associated factors for the driver include never drove V1 prior to the crash, rarely drove this road and thought she was being shot at, causing her to panic and proceed into the intersection without looking. There was no child safety seat for the 4 year-old child.

The Pre-Crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors include improper or no child safety seats for the 1 and 6 year-old granddaughters.