The crash occurred in the center of a four-way intersection. The north/southbound five-lane roadway was divided by a grass median. The east/westbound four-lane roadway was undivided. All roadways were bituminous, level and with posted speed limits of 80 kmph (50 mph). The intersection was controlled by traffic lights on each corner. It was afternoon on a weekday. The roads were wet and the skies were cloudy. Traffic flow was moderate.

V1, a 2007 Nissan Altima with one occupant, was traveling south when it entered the intersection without observing the traffic signal and struck V2, a 2000 Chevrolet Blazer with one occupant, on the right side. V2 was traveling westbound when it entered the intersection and was struck by V1. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, driven by a 21-year-old female who reported a complaint of pain and was transported, stated that she was traveling at a high rate of speed toward the intersection when the light changed from yellow to red. She figured that the road was too wet to stop so she decided to "go for it" and run the light. When she saw V2 enter the intersection the driver of V1 attempted to stop by applying her brakes (full ABS application) and turn the wheel slightly to the right.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "other vehicle encroachment - from crossing street across path". The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The driver was traveling to fast in the wet road to stop in time to avoid the collision or in her estimation to stop for the traffic light. The following associated factors were assigned. Non-driving activities "smoking", Illegal Maneuver "failed to stop for TCD", Other decision factor "Driver decided to "go for it" instead of attempting to stop at intersection and Roadway related factor "Slick Surface (low friction due to rain).

The Driver of V2, a 71-year-old male, reported no injuries. Driver stated that he was stopped at the intersection and when the light turned green she proceeded through when V2 ran the signal and struck him on the right side. V1 made no avoidance maneuver.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "this vehicle traveling-crossing over (passing through) intersection ". No Critical Reason was coded “inadequate surveillance”. The following associated factors were assigned. Roadway related factor "Slick Surface (low friction due to rain).