This crash occurred on a 4-lane undivided roadway with two northbound lanes and two southbound lanes. The roadway was straight, dry, level asphalt. There was no traffic signal in this area of roadway. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph), but in this section of the roadway there was a school advisory limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred at midday at the end of the week. A school in the area had let out early on this day and there were students running from one side of the street to the other without paying any attention to traffic flow.

A noncontact vehicle came to a stop to let the students cross the roadway. Vehicle #2, a 1998 Chevrolet K1500 pick-up truck, stopped behind the non-contact vehicle for the same reason. Vehicle #1, a 1995 Chevrolet S-10 pick-up truck, was traveling behind V2. The driver of V1 did not notice in time that V2 had come to a stop and the front of V1 struck the rear of V2, pushing V2 forward a few feet to final rest. The driver of V1 was not injured in the crash but his vehicle was towed from the scene due to damage. The driver of V2 drove his vehicle from the scene and was later taken to his doctor due to back injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 47-year-old male drove V1. He reported being in good health and taking no medications. He stated he had gone to pick up some things from the store and then picked up lunch and was on his way to his church pantry to help out. He stated that as he approached the school area he noticed students running across the roadway and was thinking it's early for them to be out of school. He stated he did not notice that V2 had stopped for traffic. He stated when he did realize traffic was stopped it was too late and he struck the rear of V2.

A 77-year-old male drove V2. He reported being in fair health and would not comment on if he were taking any medications. He also stated he has eye problems and back problems and was on his way home from seeing his doctor for his back problems at the time of the crash. He stated that he was about 20 feet behind the vehicle in front of him that stopped because of students running across the roadway. He stated he could not understand why the students were crossing without a crossing guard. He stated he did not realize there was a vehicle coming up behind him until it hit him. He stated he was in a lot of pain but did not want to be transported.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded other motor vehicle stopped in lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded driver related factor - recognition error - external distraction. An associated factor coded to this driver was other non-driving activities - eating while driving.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to this driver include the physical conditions of hypertension, diabetes, and high cholesterol, along with the use of unknown medications to treat these conditions, inattention due to personal problems, and an exterior factor due to the students running back and forth across the roadway.