The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a two-way, ten-lane interstate roadway, which was physically divided by a concrete traffic barrier. There were five southbound lanes, with a posted speed of 105 kmph (65 mph). This was a straight, level, asphalt roadway. Conditions were dark with streetlights on a weekday evening. The roadway was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 2004 Acura MDX with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane four. V2, a 1995 Ford Aerostar with three occupants, was traveling southbound in lane one, ahead of V1. The driver of V1 was traveling faster than V2. V1 began to veer to the right, across three travel lanes. The front right of V1 made contact with the back left of V2. V1 continued to travel off the right side of the roadway, striking the right side of the vehicle against a concrete traffic barrier. V1 was then redirected onto the roadway, coming to final rest facing southeast, between lanes one and two. After impact with V1, V2 began to rotate clockwise. V2 rolled left, two quarter-turns in the air, before making contact with the pavement on its right side. The vehicle's momentum carried the vehicle back onto its wheels. In total, V2 rolled four quarter-turns. V2 came to final rest facing northwest, between lanes two and three. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 129 kmph for V1 and 129 kmph for V2.

V1, the Acura MDX was driven by a 48-year old female, who was not injured. The driver declined to be interviewed. However, a witness to the crash stated that driver of V1 appeared to be out of control as she veered into lane one.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on right side of travel lane". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related decision error, "traveling too fast for conditions". The driver's speed was estimated at 128 kmph (80 mph). One associated factor for this driver was a critical non-performance error. The driver was under the influence of alcohol, with a .128 BAC level. No additional associated factors could be determined for this driver.

V2. the Ford Aerostar was driven by a 28-year old male, who was transported to the hospital due to injury. He stated that he had just picked his girlfriend up from school, and was on his way home. The driver indicated that he is a cautious driver, preferring to travel in the slower lanes on the right side of the interstate. A split-second before impact, the driver saw headlights shining through the van windows. That was the only warning of impending danger. The driver said that he did not have time to react.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane (same direction), over left lane line". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. One associated factor for this driver was the presence of a social conversation with his girlfriend at the time of the crash. There were no additional associated factors for the driver of V2.