This single-vehicle crash occurred just west of a three-leg, stop sign-controlled intersection on the primary roadway in an urban neighborhood. The primary roadway runs east/west and is comprised of five undivided travel lane, the center lane being a two-way center turn lane. This roadway is straight and level, has no controls, and has a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph) and overhead street lighting that was working at the time of the crash. There are no traffic controls on this primary east/west roadway. The north leg of the intersection is a secondary roadway that is two-way, two-lane and has a posted stop sign. This crash occurred during nighttime hours with light traffic flow, dry travel lanes and no adverse weather conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a four door 1992 Jeep Cherokee 4 x 4 SUV with one occupant, was westbound in lane one approaching the intersection. V1 veered slightly to the right when the driver dropped her cigarette and its right side tires rubbed against the north curb just prior to the northeast corner of the intersection. The driver of V1 corrected by steering left, then overcorrected by steering right. V1 then began skidding longitudinally, departed the right side of the roadway on the northwest corner of the intersection, and impacted a tree with its front. V1 came to final rest at approximately the point of impact. V1 was towed due to damage. The driver of V1 left the scene of the collision before police arrived. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1, a forty-five-year-old female, was coming from her girlfriend's house and was on her way to the store. She stated that she remembered dropping her cigarette before the crash but doesn't remember anything after that. She reported being a little tired at the beginning of that trip and had some concerns in her personal life. She had an argument within the past 12 hours with her boyfriend. She felt very comfortable with her vehicle and drives this route weekly. She is in good health and takes no medications, but had gotten over a cold in the past week. It is unknown if alcohol or drug consumption was a factor for this driver. The tires on V1 had minimal tread depth and the right rear tire had 1/2 of the inflation pressure as the other tires. Skid marks prior to impact indicate full ABS brake lockup. The physical evidence indicates the travel speed prior to control loss was above the posted speed limit.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction. Driver fatigue, poor directional control, too fast (reason unknown), and inadequate surveillance were associative factors.