This crash occurred in the morning of a weekday in the southbound lanes of a four-lane divided roadway. The north/south roadway consisted of two lanes in each direction divided by a grassy median. The bituminous roadway curved to the right but was dry and level with a speed limit of 88 kmph (55 mph). There was a construction zone up ahead which caused traffic to slow and begin to merge left (even though it was not yet required to). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle 1 (V1), a 2006 Chevrolet Cobalt with one occupant, was southbound in lane two. Vehicle 2 (V2), a 1989 Dodge Omni with one occupant, was also southbound in lane two ahead of V1. As V2 began to slow for the construction zone V1, which was traveling at a high rate of speed (described by police to be greater than reasonable and prudent) failed to slow down. The front of V1 struck the back of V2. Both units came to rest partially blocking lane two. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, an unemployed, uninsured 19-year-old male was transported for treatment of non-incapacitating injuries. No interview could be obtained with the driver. A witness at the scene related the driver of V1 was proceeding at a high rate of speed and slammed right into the back of V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in the same direction while decelerating. The Critical Reason was coded as an unknown recognition error. Associated factors include traveling too fact for conditions and the presence of a construction zone.

The driver of V2, a 74-year-old male suffered minor injuries but refused to be transported. He stated he was traveling south and was slowing for traffic when he was struck so hard in the rear he thought his vehicle exploded.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The presence of a construction zone was coded as an associated factor.