This three-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged intersection. The north/south trafficway is straight and divided by a grass median. Both approaches consist of two through lanes and a left turn lane. The northbound approach has an uphill grade and the southbound approach has a downhill grade. The speed limit for this trafficway is 64 kmph (40 mph). The east/west trafficway is straight, level, divided and controlled by stop signs. The speed limit for this trafficway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions. Traffic was congested at the time of this crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Ford F150 pickup, was northbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Nissan Maxima, was southbound in lane two. Several non-contact vehicles (NCVs) were stopped southbound in lane three, waiting to turn left. Vehicle three (V3), a 2000 Lexus GS300, was stopped eastbound at the stop sign. V1 entered the intersection, turning left, and the front struck the front of V2. V2 traveled to the southwest and the front struck the left side of V3. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a sixteen-year-old female, was on her way home from shopped. She stated that vehicles in the southbound left turn lane prevented her from seeing V2. She applied the brakes when she saw V2 just before the crash. She is in good health, drives this route daily, is comfortable with her vehicle and was well rested. This driver had seven months of driving experience at the time of the crash.

The driver of V2, a thirty-three-year-old female, was driving with her twenty-five-year-old female cousin from her home to the post office. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle and drives this route monthly. She is in good health and takes no medications. This driver stated that she did not see V1 until just before the crash and did not have any time to attempt any avoidance maneuvers.

The driver of V3, a forty-year-old female, had just left work and was on her way to a pharmacy to get a prescription for her daughter. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle and drives this route daily. She is in good health and takes no medications.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: turned with obstructed view. This driver's inexperience, her inadequate surveillance and the sightline restriction were associated factors in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event for V2 was not coded to this vehicle. The sightline restriction created by the vehicle's in lane three was an associated factor for this driver in this crash.

V3 was not involved first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.