This single vehicle crash occurred off the right side of a north/south roadway divided by a two-way left turn lane. There were three northbound lanes and three southbound lanes. Raised concrete curbs and sidewalks lined both sides of this roadway. The southbound approach had a 3 percent downhill slope and curved to the left with a 2 percent super-elevation. The posted speed limit was 72 kmph (45 mph) with a bituminous surface type. Setting was early afternoon hours on a weekend. Conditions were daylight, sunny and clear. Traffic flow was moderate.

Vehicle one was a 2003 Toyota Camry four-door with one occupant traveling southbound in lane one. An unknown non-contact vehicle was traveling southbound in lane two. The non-contact vehicle made a sudden lane change from lane two into lane one. In an attempt to avoid a collision, the driver of V1 braked and steered right. V1 left 27.9 meters (92 feet) of left tire impressions before departing the road on the right side. V1 went over the raised concrete curb and struck a breakaway utility pole that was located 1 meter (3.3 feet) west of the curb line, with its front plane (event 1). The top section of pole then fell on the right side and top of V1 (event 2). After impact, V1 traveled 11.8 meters (39 feet) in a clockwise rotation and came to final rest with its front plane resting against a chain-link fence (event 3), facing west. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1 was a 26 year-old male who suffered minor injuries in this crash and refused medical attention from EMS on-scene. He was an electrical worker who works Monday through Friday, totaling 40 hours per week. On this day he had just left church less than 10 minutes before and was heading home. He only drove this roadway once weekly when he goes to church. He reported that he was in lane one traveling at 72 kmph (45 mph). As he went around the left curve, he noticed a red American car in lane two begin to encroach into his lane quickly and unexpectedly. To avoid a collision with this other car, he quickly hit the brakes, locking them up and steered to the right. When he steered to the right, his car departed the roadway and struck a utility pole. His car then spun around and came to final rest on the sidewalk. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "incorrect evasive action"- a driver related error. This driver steered right when braking alone would have been sufficient. This driver was inexperienced; he had two years driving experience and only drives this roadway four times per month. He suffers from seasonal allergies and uses a prescription medication daily to treat it. He was listening to his radio prior to impact, possibly causing a driving distraction. No other associated factors for this driver.