The crash occurred in the intersection of a north-south bound roadway with an eastbound interstate highway access road. North of the intersection there were three undivided lanes. One lane was northbound and there were two southbound lanes. Lane two of the southbound roadway was marked as a left turn only lane. South of the intersection there was one northbound lane and three southbound lanes. The eastbound road had two lanes with lane one as a right turn only lane and lane two marked for either left turn or straight through traffic. Both roadways were straight, dry, level and asphalt. The posted speed limits for both roadways was 56kph (35mph). There were traffic control signals on colors without pedestrian signal at the intersection. The crash occurred on a weekday morning under cloudy skies with moderate traffic flow.

V1, a 2001 Ford Ranger pickup truck with one occupant was southbound in lane one. V2, a 1999 Oldsmobile Intrigue four door with one occupant was eastbound in lane two. V1 was going straight through the intersection. V2 was making a left turn to northbound lane one. Both vehicles proceeded into the intersection at the same time. V2 braked without lockup in an unsuccessful avoidance maneuver. The front left corner of V2 struck the front right corner of V1. The impact rotated V2 in a clockwise direction. The vehicle remained in contact as they traveled southward. V1 came to rest facing south in lane two about five meters south of impact. V2 also came to rest facing south in lane two with its left front corner still in contact with the right side of V1. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Ford Ranger, was driven by a 47-year old female who was not injured. The driver said that she was traveling from work to a doctor's appointment and she did not know her speed. She reported that she had a green light that had been green for a while. She said she did not slow down or accelerate, and had not previously stopped. She said she did not see V2 until a second before impact because her view to the right was obstructed by a wall and overpass support. She rarely drove through this intersection. She said she took no evasive action before V2 struck her. Evidence at the point of impact suggests that she did swerve to the left just before impact.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded “other vehicle encroachment from crossing street turning into opposite direction”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor was assigned for driver behavior, recognition, inadequate surveillance, failed to look to side; driver physical condition due to a bad back, crossed with an obstructed view; and roadway related factor the obstructed view due to poor roadway design (see photos).

V2, the Oldsmobile Intrigue, was driven by a 62-year old male who was not injured. The driver was traveling between work sites at about 24kph (15mph) as he was making a left turn on a green light at the intersection. He reported that the light had been green for him way before he got to the intersection and that he only had to slow down. He said he could not see V1 before he started his turn and pointed out that the design of the overpass supports and wall to his left obstructed his view. He said he was able to apply his brakes without lockup just before the impact. The witness, who claimed to be the second car behind V2, said that V2 had been stopped at the eastbound red light before it started to turn on the green light. The witness' version cannot be confirmed and does not agree with the driver of V2's statement.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was “this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was “view obstructed by roadway design/furniture”. An associated factor was assigned for driver behavior, recognition, inadequate surveillance, failed to look to side, turned with an obstructed view; and roadway related factor the obstructed view due to poor roadway design (see photos).