The crash occurred at an intersection in the eastbound lane of a three-leg suburban intersection. There was an east-west roadway with an intersecting road to the south. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph) in all directions. The eastbound approach was on a 5% downhill grade while the northbound approach was on level ground. Conditions were daylight and dry with clear skies. The setting was morning hours on a weekday.

Vehicle one was a 2003 Toyota Camry sedan traveling east in lane one. Vehicle two was a 2003 Volkswagen Passat sedan traveling northbound in lane two approaching the stop sign at the intersection. V2 came to a stop and then proceeded to turn left as V1 continued straight through the intersection. The two vehicles collided head-on and came to rest in the intersection east of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

The Toyota Camry (V1) was driven by a 58-year old male who was transported to a local hospital with possible injuries. He stated that he was heading home from the airport when he noticed a car pulling out across his lane of travel. He honked and braked without lockup but could not avoid the crash. He estimated his travel and impact speeds to be 56 kmph (35 mph) and 48 kmph (30 mph), respectively. The Toyota sedan was towed from the scene, but not due to police-reported damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "other vehicle encroachment from crossing street turning into the opposite direction". No Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. This driver wore prescription sunglasses for a nearsighted condition. He received only informal driver training when he was 16.

The Volkswagen Passat (V2) was driven by a 64-year old female who was transported to a local hospital with evident injuries. She refused to be interviewed on her lawyer's advice, and refused to provide the identity of her lawyer. The investigating officer estimated her travel and impact speeds to be 0 kmph and 56 kmph (35 mph), respectively. The Volkwagen sedan was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "this vehicle traveling turning left at an intersection". The Critical Reason was a driver-related factor of "inadequate surveillance". No vehicle factors were present for V2 and no further driver factors could be coded without an interview.