This crash occurred on a straight level bituminous two lane roadway that was divided by a painted median. The posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph) which reduces to 56 kmph (35 mph) 100 meters after the crash site. There is a sign indicating the roadway narrows. The weather was cloudy and the roadway was partially wet. Traffic flow was normal for that time of day. This crash occurred on a weekday afternoon.

Vehicle 1, a 2002 Nissan Altima, was traveling behind Vehicle 2, a 1991 Chevrolet Lumina, when it drove into the safety zone into the oncoming traffic lane in order to illegally pass Vehicle 2. V1 returned to its original lane and impacted with V2's front left, with its right rear quarter panel. This spun V1 in a clockwise position 180 degrees, with V1 coming to final rest after impacting an embankment on the right side of the roadway, with its rear left. Vehicle 1 was towed due to damage. V1 came to final rest off the roadway facing in a northeasterly direction. V2 came to final rest on the roadway facing in a southerly direction. V1 was towed due to damage. V2 was towed due to its driver going to the hospital with her baby. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle #1, the Nissan Altima, was driven by a belted 38-year-old male who refused to be interviewed. He stated he did not want to be bothered "with this sh-t".

The Critical Precrash Event coded to Vehicle 1 was: “Other - this vehicle traveling entering the roadway from the left side of the roadway”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was coded as: driver related factor, “aggressive driving behavior”.

Vehicle #2, the Chevrolet, was driven by a belted 21 year-old female who was not injured. There was a belted 18 year-old male in the front right seat who was not injured. There was a 6-month -old female child in a car seat in the second row. The child was taken to the hospital for a check out, accompanied by both other people in the vehicle.

This driver stated to her relative that she had seen the driver of V1 making "wild gestures" and tailgating her. She stated she saw V1 coming around her on the left but could only brake before impact.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this Vehicle was: “Other - other motor vehicle encroachment entering roadway from the left side of the roadway”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle.