This two vehicle daytime collision occurred during early morning hours at a four-leg intersection comprised by a north/south roadway and an east/west roadway. The north/south roadway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of five lanes. Both roadway are designated 56 kmph (35 mph) zones. The intersection is controlled by a on-colors signal that was functioning properly at the time of the collision.

Vehicle one (V1) is a 1980 Toyota SR5 pickup, driven by a thirty two (32) year old male with two passengers. They were traveling southbound in the number one lane. Vehicle two (V2) is a 1995 Chevrolet Silverado pickup, driven by a forty seven (47) year old female with four passengers. They were traveling northbound in the number three (left-turn) lane. As V2 attempted its left turn, the front plane of V1 contacted its right plane. V1 came to rest facing southbound in the number one lane, blocking the intersection. V2 came to rest facing northwest, blocking the westbound number one and two lanes. V1 received major damage and was towed from the towed from the scene. V2 received moderate damage and was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction, over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle, The driver of V1 takes Dilantin, an anti-seizure medication.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V2 as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed.

The driver of V2 was having a conversation with the passenger while they were listening to the radio. The driver and passengers were eating food at this time. Food was found on the floor of the driver's side. The driver stated that just as she began turning, she saw the other car behind the crosswalk and thought she could make her turn in front of the other vehicle. She was running late and had come from home and in the process of going to drop her children off at school. She was behind schedule for the start of their classes.