This single-vehicle rollover crash occurred along a straight stretch of westbound interstate. There were three travel lanes with paved shoulders and rumble strips present on the north and south sides of the roadway. A positive wire-guardrail divides east/west traffic. The right shoulder is 5.9 meters (19 feet) wide with a negative -16% downhill grade. The grade becomes positive +38% from that point on. Trees line the positive section of the slope. The roadway is straight, level and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 104 kph (65 mph). Setting was evening hours on a weekday. Conditions were dark, clear and dry with light traffic flow.

Vehicle One is a 1995 Honda Civic, four-door, compact with two occupants traveling westbound in lane three, the far left lane. V1 departed its lane to the right, entering lane two and one, respectively. V1 steered left and began to rotate in a counterclockwise fashion. V1 continued on a right path leaving 49 meters (161 feet) of tire impressions in lane one and on the paved shoulder. V1 then departed the roadway onto the negatively sloped grass shoulder. V1 left another 27.5 meters (90 feet) of tire impressions in the grass before contacted the positively sloped section of the ditch and overturning with its right side leading (event 1). V1 then traveled up the embankment contacting two small pines trees within 3 meters (10 feet) of one another (event 2 and 3). V1 then came to final rest on its top facing south after rolling six-quarter turns a total distance of 17 meters (56 feet). Police Reported Travel Speed is 113 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1 is an 18 year-old male driver who suffered abrasions to his body, but refused treatment from EMS on-scene. He tells me that he works Monday thru Saturday 12 hour days in the construction business. He confirmed that he averages 81 hours of work per week. He had finished work for the day and was driving his friend/co-worker home a few miles away in his car that he knew had bad front brakes. They were talking to each other while traveling 112 kph (70 mph) in the center lane. The driver claims that all of a sudden, his front brakes locked up for no apparent reason. When the brakes locked up, the car started to rotated what he thought was clockwise and to the right. His car departed the road, struck the grass embankment and rollover over 6 quarter turns, he thinks, but couldn't fully remember how many times it rolled. He was unable to tell me what was wrong with the brakes, and wasn't exactly sure why he applied the brakes on the interstate with light traffic flow. His vehicle suffered disabling top damage and was towed from the scene back to his residence.

A witness who was driving in the center lane in front of V1 saw the events unfold in her rear-view mirror. She says V1 was in the far left lane with no other cars in front of them traveling an estimated 112 kph (70 mph). She saw it very abruptly change lanes to the right for no apparent reason. When it reached the right lane, it appeared that the driver tried to steer left, but the car started to yaw and rotate an unknown direction. She then saw it overturn an unknown number of times.

The Critical Precrash Event was "This vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road, on the right side." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "Poor directional control (Failure to control vehicle with skill ordinarily expected)"-a driver error. Although this driver claimed its brakes failed, there was no evidence in the roadway, or on the vehicle, indicating the same. For this reason, it was determined the driver for an unknown reason lost control of his vehicle. The driver was talking to his passenger prior to the critical event, coded as a distraction. The driver was traveling to fast for conditions, considering he claims his vehicle was unsafe. There were no other known associated factors in this crash.