The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. The east/west roadway was straight and had two eastbound lanes and two westbound lanes divided by a left-turn lane. It had a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). The north/south roadway curved left with a radius of 2%. It had two northbound lanes and two southbound lanes divided by a left-turn lane with a posted speed of 48 kmph (30 mph). Both roadways were level, and bituminous. It was evening on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic was flowing.

V1, a 2004 Chevrolet G-series work van with one occupant was traveling southbound in lane two. V1 was approaching the intersection intending to go straight. V2, a 1997 Chevrolet Cavalier two-door with one occupant was traveling westbound in lane one. V2 was approaching the intersection intending to go straight. V2 had a green light and was proceeding through the intersection when V1 did not realize that he had a red light and also proceeded through the intersection. V1 did not see V2 prior to impact and so he did not make any avoidance actions. V2 saw V1 right before impact and attempted to apply the brakes. He could not avoid V1. The front of V2 contacted the left of V1 before they both came to final rest in the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the 2004 Chevrolet G-series van, was driven by a 48-year old male. He reported no injuries and refused treatment. He advised that he was coming from his rental house and was on his way home. He stated that he had been traveling between 50-64 kmph (31-40 mph) prior to impact.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V2 was: “this vehicle traveling (passing over, crossing through) intersection”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was driver related error: “inadequate surveillance (failed to look, looked but did not see)”. Associated factors coded to this driver include an inadequate surveillance (failure to look either side ahead and a failure to stop for a traffic control device.

V2, the Chevrolet Cavalier, was driven by a 59-year old male. He reported injuries and was transported to a local trauma facility. He stated that he had just left the grocery store and was on his way back home. He stated that he had been traveling between 34-48 kmph (21-30 mph) when he made the evasive action. He could not avoid contacting V1.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V2 was: “other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street across path”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to this driver was inadequate surveillance (failure to look either side ahead).