This two-vehicle crash occurred during the early evening hours of a weekday. The collision took place on a divided urban north/south roadway near a four-way intersection. There were three southbound lanes and two northbound lanes. The posted speed limit for the roadway was 56 kmph (35 mph). The surface type for the roadway was that of bituminous asphalt. The roadway was dry, straight, and had a negative grade in the southbound direction. There were no indications of physical damage. Weather conditions were cloudy and cold. Conditions were also dark, but there were streetlights to illuminate the roadway.

V1, a 2007 Nissan Maxima 4-door sedan, was traveling southbound in lane two of the roadway when it struck V2, a 2006 GMC Envoy utility vehicle, which was stopped prior to the intersection. The front of V1 struck the rear of V2. The traffic signal for both drivers had just turned green. The east/westbound signal was red. There was a police car traveling westbound through the intersection with its lights and siren on. The police car proceeded through the intersection on a red traffic signal. This caused V2 to suddenly stop. V1 then struck V2 in the rear. V1 suffered moderate front-end damage and had to be towed from the scene. V2 suffered minor damage and was driven away from the scene by the driver. V2 carried one passenger in the front right seating position. Neither driver nor passenger was injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

The driver of V1, a 43 year-old male, could not be reached for an interview. No other information was obtained about the driver.

The driver of V2, a 39 year-old female in generally good health, stated she just left a drugstore and was on her way to pick up her daughter from school when the crash occurred. She said that she was stopped at the light for about 20 seconds when it turned green. As she took her foot off her brakes, she noticed seeing and hearing a police car coming through the intersection. As soon as she noticed this, she reapplied her brakes, stating her car "didn't even move yet" - that was when V1 struck her rear. The driver reported this was a road that she travels on a daily basis when picking up her daughter from school. The driver also admitted to talking with her passenger at the time of the crash (conversation nature, unknown).

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was coded other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The Critical Reason was coded unknown reason (as a driver interview was not obtained). Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include the traffic flow interruption caused by the approaching police vehicle.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was coded other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason was not coded for this driver. Associated factors coded to the driver of V2 include conversation with the passenger, the traffic flow interruption caused by the approaching police vehicle, and the driver focusing on the approaching police vehicle.