This three vehicle early morning daytime collision occurred at a four-leg intersection. The southbound and northbound roadway is five lanes, dry, level and has a left turn pocket. The westbound and eastbound roadway is two lanes, dry and level. The intersection is controlled by a on-color signal that was working properly at the time. All four legs are comprised of asphalt. Both roadways are designated 56 kmph (35 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Lexus RX300 4-door sport utility driven by a sixty seven (67) year old male, was traveling north in the number one lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Honda Civic LX 4-door sedan driven by a thirty (30) year old female, was traveling south in the number three (left turn) lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 2000 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan driven by a thirty four (34) year old female, was traveling west in the number one lane. As V2 was making a left turn at the intersection the front of V1 impacted the right side. After impact V2 rotated clockwise in an northeasterly direction and the rear of V2 contacted the front of V3 stopped facing west in traffic lane. V2 and V3 came to final rest facing west, V1 came to final rest facing north just past the intersection. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene; V3 was driven. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over the left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. The driver has diabetes and takes the medication Glucophage, and an Antibotic for a cough.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason was assigned to V2 and coded as a driver related factor: false assumption of other actions. The driver had dropped off one child at school and was on her way to drop off another child at a different school. She saw the other vehicle coming but thought it would yield her the right of way.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.