The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a two-way, ten-lane interstate roadway, which was divided by a concrete traffic barrier. There were five southbound lanes, with a posted speed of 105 kmph (65 mph). This was a straight, level, asphalt roadway. Conditions were daylight on a weekday morning with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 2002 Ford Escape with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane one. V2, a 2007 Chevrolet Monte Carlo with two occupants, was traveling southbound in lane five (HOV lane). The driver of V1 lost control, veering left across four lanes of traffic. The front of V1 made contact with the right side of V2. The impact caused V1 to begin rotating in a clockwise direction. V1 rolled to the left, two quarter-turns. V1 traveled onto the inside emergency lane, striking the concrete traffic barrier with the right rear corner of the vehicle, while the vehicle was upside down. V1 came to final rest on its rooftop, on the inside emergency lane. V2 was able to maintain control after impact, coming to a controlled final rest on the inside emergency lane. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.

V1, the Ford Escape, was driven by a 27-year old female, who was transported to the hospital due to injury. She could not be reached for interview. However, she stated to police that she applied her brakes and steered to the left, in an attempt to avoid traffic that had slowed or stopped in front of her.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on left side of travel lane". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related performance error, overcompensation. The passenger of V2 witnessed V1 rocking back and forth wildly as the driver used over corrective steering maneuvers. One associated factor for this driver was a tire deficiency. The left front tire had no tread on it, and was severely over inflated. The right rear tire was severely under inflated. No additional associated factors could be determined for the driver due to lack of interview data.

V2, the Chevy Monte Carlo, was driven by a 54-year old male, who was transported to the hospital due to injury. He stated that he and his wife were down on vacation, and were traveling to another city for some site seeing before heading to the airport to fly home. The driver indicated that he and his wife looked to their right because they noticed V1 rocking back and forth wildly. The driver said that at some point, V1 was on two wheels. When it became clear that the other car was on a collision course, the driver of V2 let off the gas pedal, in an attempt to avoid or reduce the severity of the impact. The driver said that he had to fight very hard to keep control of his vehicle after getting hit.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane (same direction), over right lane line". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. A physical factor for this driver was the presence of high cholesterol, for which the driver takes 20 mg of Lipitor once daily. There were no additional associated factors for the driver of the Monte Carlo.