This crash occurred in a 4-way controlled intersection. The north/south approach was a 2-lane undivided roadway with one lane in each direction. The east/west approach was a 4-lane undivided roadway with two lanes in each direction. All the roads involved were straight, level, and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred in the early weekend evening while still daylight. The roads were dry and skies were clear. Traffic flow was steady.

V1, a 2001 Ford Focus 4-door sedan, was traveling west in lane two intending on making a left at the intersection. V2, a 2006 Toyota Rav-4 sport utility vehicle, was traveling east in lane one intending on continuing straight through the intersection. At the intersection, V1 was stopped waiting for traffic to clear in order to make a left at the intersection. A non-contact vehicle was stopped in lane two of the opposite side waiting also to make a left at the intersection. The driver thought that the roadway was cleared and made a left at the intersection. However, V2 was traveling straight through the intersection and struck V1 as she was making a left. Both vehicles came to final rest approximately 10 meters southeast of point of impact and were both towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Ford Focus, was driven by a 38-year-old female who reported "C" injuries but was not transported to the hospital. Both of her passengers, a 15 year-old female and a 1-year-old female also reported "C" injuries but were both not transported. The driver told police that when she made the left it was difficult for her to see V2 down the roadway since her view was blocked by the non-contact vehicle in lane two intending on making a left turn at the intersection.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded as "This vehicle traveling- turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as turned with obstructed view. The non-contact vehicle in lane two of the intersection blocked the view that V1 had of V2. Without a driver interview, no other associated factors could be coded to the vehicle.

V2, the 2006 Toyota Rav-4, was driven by a 60-year-old female who, as well as her passenger, a 66-year-old male, reported no injuries at the crash scene. According to the driver they were heading to their summer home. As they approached the intersection they saw the non-contact vehicle waiting to make a left turn and continued through the intersection. As they entered the intersection they saw V1 making a left in front of them. The driver stated that she braked but was unsuccessful in her avoidance maneuver and struck V1.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded as "Other motor vehicle encroachment from opposite direction-over left lane line." No Critical Reason for Critical Pre-crash Event was coded to this driver. Associated factors coded to this driver include conversation with her passenger, a sightline restriction caused by the non-contact vehicle, and that the driver rarely drives on this roadway.