Case Summary 2007-09-113

The crash occurred on a southbound two-lane parkway dividing two northbound lanes by a median with positive reinforcements bordering both sides of the road in the southbound direction. There was an exit ramp on the right side of the parkway. The roadway was level with a slight right curve and posted speed was 72 kmph (45 mph). The sky was cloudy and the road was wet during this early afternoon weekend. This is a heavily traveled roadway and traffic was moderate on a weekend during early afternoon hours. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, a 2007 Mercury Grand Marquis four-door sedan, driven by a 39-year old female. The driver stated that she was traveling south in lane two when the vehicle suddenly lost contact with the road sliding to the left onto the left shoulder, scrapping the stone wall barrier with the left rear and passenger portion of V1. Prior to the crash the driver had attempted braking and steering right in an attempt remain on the road. The combined force of the crash and steering hard right directed V1 back onto the road, spinning clockwise 90 degrees across both lanes to the right hitting the stonewall bordering the right side of the parkway, with the right front portion of V1. V1 continued to spin clock-wise 90 degrees into lane one facing north, striking the rear right corner of V2 with the left rear portion of V1, then continued back over lane one, spinning another 90 degrees clockwise, striking the same stone wall bordering the right shoulder with the back left portion of V1 before coming to rest facing northeast. The driver was not injured.

V2, a 1992 Ford Econoline Super Van, driven by a 47-year old female, with an expired license, was traveling with a 29-year old male friend. She stated that she was traveling at a rate of 89 kmph (55 mph) south in lane one when her vehicle was struck. The force of the crash caused V2 the spin counter clockwise 400 degrees onto the right side exit ramp before coming to rest facing southwest. The driver did not see V1 prior to the crash. Neither occupant was injured.

A witness stated that she was traveling, with her 19-year old son, behind V1 in lane two at 97 kmph (60 mph), the same rate of speed as V1. She stated that V1 veered left into the wall, as if the driver was asleep. She thinks the crash woke the driver and the driver must have over steered right, because V1 spun clockwise across both lanes and into the wall. The force of the crash propelled V1 back into the road towards her vehicle. At that point the witness' only concern was to avoid a collision with V1 and did not see the collision between V1 and V2, but she saw that V1 was suddenly redirected back into the right wall before coming to rest. After the crash, the witness stopped to assist the driver of V1. The driver of V1 told the witness that she had no idea what happened.

The police reported that the driver of V1 failed to give full time and attention.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side." The Critical Reason was "Decision error, inattention." Associated factors attributed to the driver are wet roads; blood thinning medication, obesity and inattention. Vehicles traveling the same road at the same speed both ahead and behind V1 managed to remain on the road without incident, the tires of V1 were in good condition.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was "Not involved in the first harmful event." The critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors attributed to the driver are driving with an expired license and wet roads.