This two-vehicle crash occurred at a four-way intersection that is controlled by a traffic light on colors. The traffic light was functioning properly at the time of the crash. There is an east/west roadway that is separated by a raised median. There are two eastbound and two westbound lanes and a left and right turn lane at the intersection. There is a downhill grade for westbound traffic and an uphill grade for eastbound traffic. The weather at the time of the crash was cloudy. This crash occurred during early morning hours the roadway was dry and there were no sight line restrictions noted at the scene.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Kia Optima 4 door with one occupant, was making a left turn at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Infiniti G-35 4 door with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in the #2 lane going straight. V1 had stopped then began to make a left turn and was struck on the right side by V2 as it entered the intersection. V1 rotated clockwise and traveled through the intersection in a southeasterly direction until it came to rest near the southeast corner of the intersection facing in a southwesterly direction. V2 rotated clockwise and came to rest in the intersection facing in a southerly direction. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

A fifty four (54) year old female drove V1. She said that she left her house about 25 minutes (14 kilometers/9 miles) before the crash. She said that she was on her way to the hospital to see a client for work. As she was approaching the intersection, she got into the left turn lane and began to slow down. She said that she stopped at the intersection for more than 10 seconds. She saw a car in the left turn lane (V1) across the intersection. She said that she began to make the left turn and never saw the other car coming. She was not in a hurry and takes the medications Seratonin, Celexa and Zofran. She had a previous stroke and has diabetes. The driver worked approximately 25 hours during the last 7 days on an average of 4 hours a day. The driver was transported from the scene by EMS personnel.

A thirty six (36) year old female drove V2. She had just made a right turn onto the roadway. She was accelerating up the hill and saw V1 coming the other in the left turn lane. As she entered the intersection, V1 turned in front of her. She hit her brakes and steered to the left to avoid the crash but was unsuccessful. She was on her way to work after she had just dropped her kids off at the babysitter's. She was not in a hurry to get to work and she was early. The driver takes the medications Zoloft and Lamisil . The driver has anxiety and it does not effect her driving. EMS transported the driver from the scene.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turn left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.