This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The east/west roadway is straight and the speed limit for this roadway is 64 kmph (40 mph). West of the intersection, this roadway consists of two lanes in each direction and a center left turn lane. East of the intersection, this roadway consists of two lanes in each direction and a left turn lane at the intersection. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1991 Honda Civic, was eastbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 International tractor/trailer, was westbound in lane three. V2 turned left in the intersection and the right side was struck by the front of V1. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a nineteen-year-old male, was on his way to work from his home. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route weekly. He has Attention Deficit Disorder and takes the medication Methylphenidate. This driver stated that he saw V2 and thought that it would wait. He applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The driver of V2, a thirty-six-year-old male, was making deliveries to businesses. He was well rested, healthy and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route weekly. He takes the medication Zyrtec. This driver stated that the vehicle in eastbound lane one stopped so that he could make his left turn and he thought that V1 would also stop.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's false assumption of V2 driver's actions was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as " driver related factor; false assumption of other's actions."