This two-vehicle crash occurred in a three-legged intersection. North of the intersection, the north/south/trafficway is straight, level and divided by a curbed median. South of the intersection, this trafficway is divided by a painted median. In the precrash are, the southbound lanes consist of two through lanes. The speed limit for this roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Chrysler Concorde, entered southbound lane one from a driveway. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Jeep Cherokee, was southbound in lane two. In the intersection, V1 attempted to make a U-turn. The left side of V1 was struck by the front of V2. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-seven-year-old male, was on the way home from shopping with his wife. They were carrying on a conversation prior to the crash. This driver was healthy, well rested and comfortable with his vehicle and passenger. This was the first time he traveled this route. This driver stated that he did not see V2 prior to making a U-turn.

The driver of V2, a forty-seven-year-old male, was on the way home from shopping with his forty-eight-year-old wife. They were carrying on a conversation prior to the crash. This driver was well rested and comfortable with his vehicle and passenger. He travels this route daily. This driver takes Micardis. He stated that he saw V1 but did not realize that the driver was going to make a U-turn. When he realized that V1 was coming over into his lane, this driver applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; over the lane line on left side of travel lane." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from adjacent lane (same direction) - over right lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."