This one-vehicle crash occurred a few hours before midnight on the four southbound lanes of a divided expressway with concrete jersey barriers on both the east and west sides of the roadway. There is a shoulder on the western side (right side) of the expressway. The roadway was straight, level, had no visible deficiencies, was dark but lighted and had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). At the time of the crash there was no traffic and the weather was dry and clear.

Vehicle one (V1), a four-door 2000 Toyota Camry with two male occupants, was southbound in lane one of the expressway traveling approximately 96 kmph (60 mph). The passenger had just finished arguing with his wife/girlfriend on the phone and was talking to the driver about his relationship problems. For an unknown reason the passenger grabbed the wheel and yanked it to the right, causing V1 to swerve into the right jersey barrier, causing minor damage to the right rear side. The driver did not recall applying the brakes or taking corrective steering measures but V1 then crossed four lanes of traffic to the left and spun counterclockwise, striking the left concrete barrier and coming to final rest facing northeast. The vehicle was towed due to significant front end and rear axle damage. The driver was not treated but the passenger was transported with non-incapacitating injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver was a 33-year-old male who was driving his 48-year-old male friend home after having a couple of alcoholic drinks at a friend's house. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related error: internal distraction. The driver and on-scene officer reported that the passenger yanked the wheel to the right causing the series of events. After the passenger grabbed the steering wheel, the driver closed his eyes. The driver of V1 had been drinking and there were open containers in the vehicle. The driver may have had inattention because of the argument the passenger was having on the phone. The driver was also going approximately 24 kmph (15 mph) over the designated speed limit.