Case #2007-038

The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a two-way, ten-lane interstate roadway, which was physically divided by a concrete traffic barrier. There were five southbound lanes, with a posted speed of 65 mph (105 kmph). This was a straight, level, asphalt roadway. Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

V1, a 1994 Buick Century with four occupants, was traveling southbound in lane five (HOV lane). V2, a 2003 Honda Civic with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane five, ahead of V1. A van, which was also traveling in the HOV lane, was between V1 and V2. Traffic in front of V2 suddenly slowed for unknown reasons. V2 moved to the left shoulder and came to a complete stop. The van moved to the right, and went around V2. V1 moved to the left shoulder as the driver attempted to avoid a collision with other vehicles. The front of V1 made contact with the back of V2. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage.

V1, the Buick Century, was driven by a 17-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he was on his way home from school, and was dropping off some friends along the way. The driver indicated that he was about twenty-five to thirty meters behind a white van, when he noticed traffic suddenly slow in front of him. The motorist said that he took an evasive action by steering to the left and hitting his brakes. Initially, the driver of V1 could not see V2, due to the white van blocking his view. He said that if he had seen V2 from the beginning, that he might have made a different avoidance maneuver. By the time the driver saw V2 on the shoulder it was too late.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related decision error, following too closely to respond to unexpected actions. One associated factor for this driver was experience-related. The driver had only two years of driving experience, with no formal driver education. Another associated factor for this driver was a highway-related sightline restriction, in the form of another vehicle. The van blocked V1's view of V2, which caused the driver of V1 to unknowingly take the same avoidance action.

V2, the Honda Civic, was driven by a 46-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he had stopped to get gas on his way home from work. The driver verified that traffic suddenly slowed in front of him, and that he too made an evasive maneuver by hitting his brakes and moving onto the left emergency shoulder. The motorist indicated that within a split-second of coming to a stop, he heard screeching tires. The driver looked in his rear-view mirror and witnessed V2 strike him from behind.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was “other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associated factors coded to the driver of the Honda Civic.