The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a high occupancy, high volume, and high-speed interstate highway. There were five lanes running northbound with both right and left side paved emergency shoulders. There were concrete wall barriers separating the southbound traffic. The road widths were a standard 3.7 meters and the emergency-paved shoulders were 3.5 meters. The road was straight and level. The conditions were wet (from off and on rain) and clear on a weekday morning but it was a holiday. The posted speed was a 105 kmph (65 mph).

V1 was a 2000 Honda Accord that was traveling in the third travel lane. The driver was traveling northbound and was going 105 kmph (65 mph). The driver was on his way home from work when he saw a lounge chair in the middle of the roadway in his travel lane. The driver attempted to steer to the left and hit the brakes, which locked up and caused his vehicle to lose control and rotate counterclockwise across 2 lanes of traffic until he hit the front of his vehicle with the left concrete barrier wall. The vehicle then bounced off and hit the back right. The vehicle made final rest in lane five facing oncoming traffic. No one was injured but the vehicle was towed due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1.

The driver was a 25-year-old male who was on his way home from work. The driver was a bartender at a local club. The driver and his girlfriend were on their way home from work when the driver stated that he was in the third lane and going the speed limit when he spotted a metal lounge chair obstructing his lane. The driver tried to hit the brakes and steer to the left to avoid hitting the chair but since it had been raining off and on the roads were slick and his vehicle then lost control spinning counterclockwise till he made contact with the left concrete barrier wall. The driver stated that he should have just run over the chair and he would probably not have totaled his vehicle. The driver stated that his reaction was natural as he was going pretty fast when he jerked the wheel and hit the brakes causing his car to lose control.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was "this vehicle traveling off the edge of the orad on the left side". The Critical Reason was a driver error, "overcompensation". An associate factor was the sleep pattern of the driver, as he had not slept yet for that night. The driver worked as a bartender and was just getting out of work. He stated that was not tired but he was on his 23rd hour of being awake. The driver was not cited for the crash and the highway crew removed the lounge chair from the middle of the roadway. His vehicle was towed due to damages.