The crash occurred in the intersection of a five-lane roadway divided by a grassy median with a crossover. There were two northbound lanes and three southbound lanes and wide shoulders on either side of the roadway. The roadway was straight, level, dry asphalt with a posted speed limit of 56 kph/35 mph. Traffic flow was moderate at the time of the crash on a weekday afternoon under clear skies.

V1, a 1991 Chevy K2500 pickup truck, modified with a commercial glass carrier rack, and with two occupants, was traveling northbound in lane one. V2, a 1996 Pontiac Sunfire two door with two occupants was traveling eastbound from a business driveway on the west side of the roadway through a crossover towards a business driveway on the east side of the roadway. There was a non-contact 18-wheeled tractor-trailer truck northbound in lane two parallel to V1. V2 stopped in the crossover and then proceeded eastbound across the northbound lanes toward the second driveway in ahead of the 18-wheeler. Before V2 could cross the roadway it was struck on the right side by the front of V1 (Event 1). Both vehicles then veered toward the northeast with V2 rotating in a clockwise direction for about 19m where V2's left side wheels struck the east curb (Events 2 and 3). V2 came to rest facing south. V1 came to rest facing northeast with its front right in contact with the right front of V2. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Chevy K2500, was driven by a 58-year old male. Neither he nor his male passenger were injured or transported. At the scene the driver said he was traveling about 64kph/40mph. He reported that because there was an 18-wheeler in lane two next to him he never saw V2 until just before impact and as a result he took no avoidance maneuvers before he struck V2. He mentioned that he thought V2 was making a left turn across his path.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was other vehicle encroachment from crossing street across path. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle. Associated factors assigned to V1 were for vehicle, tire/wheel deficiency (the tires were oversized and very under-inflated), and for roadway view and sightline obstructed by other vehicle.

V2, the Pontiac Sunfire, was driven by a 19-year old female and there was a 19-year old female in the front right seat. Both the driver and the passenger were transported to a hospital; the driver with non-incapacitating injuries and the passenger with incapacitating injuries. The driver reported that she had just gotten off work and was tired. She stopped and picked up something to eat at a restaurant on the west side of the roadway and exited the restaurant driveway crossing the southbound lanes. She stopped in the crossover for an unknown length of time. The driver admitted she saw the 18-wheeler in lane 2 far enough back that she knew she could cross the street in front of it. She started across the northbound lanes toward the driveway on the east side of the roadway. She said she only saw V1 in lane one about a second before it hit her. She added that she did have time to try to steer to the left in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid impact.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was this vehicle traveling crossing over/through the intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded driver related other decision error, crossed over with obstructed view. Associated factors assigned to V2 were for driver condition, she admitted being fatigued; behavior, recognition, inadequate surveillance, looked but did not see and impending problem masked by traffic flow; behavior, aggressive, crossed with obstructed view, vehicle tire deficiency due to low tread on front tires; and roadway view and sightline restricted by other vehicle.