This crash occurred in the southbound lane of a two-lane undivided roadway. The north/south roadway curved to the left and then the right in the southbound direction. The roadway was level, bituminous, and featured a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). It was mid-evening on a weekday, it was raining heavily, and the roadway was wet.

V1, a 1995 Pontiac Grand Am with two occupants, was southbound negotiating a left curve. V1 began to lose traction and skid counter-clockwise. The vehicle crossed the center lane line, partially entering the opposing lane of traffic. The driver steered right to regain control when he noticed another vehicle coming at him in the opposing lane. The driver then over-steered to the right in order to avoid the vehicle and the car began skidding clockwise. The driver attempted to steer back to left but the vehicle crossed back into his original lane of travel and than off the roadway to the right. V1 drove up an embankment and struck a telephone pole, shearing it in half. V1 rotated around the pole in a clockwise direction and came to final rest next to it. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1.

The driver of V1, a 17 year-old male, was uninjured in the crash. There was a 15 year-old female passenger in the right front seat who was also uninjured. The driver stated that as the road curved left he lost control and before he could fully regain it he saw another vehicle approaching which caused him to overcompensate and depart the roadway.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a driver related factor, too fast for conditions, wet roads. Conditions on this night were very bad with heavy rain and wet roads, had the driver been going slower he could have easily negotiated this roadway. Another associated factor is that the front tires had on 3/32nds of tread on them. The driver was also inexperienced, having only been driving for a year.