The sequence of events of this single-vehicle crash began on the eastbound lane of an undivided east/westbound roadway just prior to a busy four-way intersection and ended with the vehicle being lodged inside a building located on the southeast corner of the intersection. Signalized traffic devices controlled all directions of the intersection and the bituminous roads were dry, level, and straight. There were no adverse weather conditions. The posted sped limit was 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during the early afternoon hours. The roadways were free of any noticeable defects and the traffic flow was normally busy for this time of day.

Vehicle one, 2005 Kia Amanti 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound on the east/westbound roadway when it entered the intersection at a high rate of speed. V1 crossed diagonally over several lanes to the right before traveling over the southeast curb up a grassy lawn area, crashing into a building wall and coming to final rest with the vehicle completely inside the kitchen area of a corner row house. City workers spent several hours on scene building support brackets for the house now believed to have structural breaches and declared inhabitable as a result of the vehicle impact. The vehicle damages were disabling; however, it was not towed until the demolition squad tore down the building, allowing the vehicle removal from the building's interior. The police guarded the building and would not allow entrance to the building. Daily drive-by attempts were made to learn when the building might be torn down in order to complete the vehicle inspection, to no avail. A week passed and the vehicle was finally towed away without any leads to where the vehicle was taken. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1.

The driver, a 56-year old male, was traveling eastbound and had a seizure prior to entering the busy intersection. The 52-year old passenger/wife and surrogate interviewee explained how they were on their way to the store when approximately halfway there she noticed her husband beginning to look faint just before entering the intersection. She reported that he had a seizure, the first in a long time. His foot must have pressed heavy on the gas pedal, she said, because they began to speed through the intersection. She shouted his name, and he didn't respond. She panicked while trying to steer the vehicle to safety through the intersection and later wondered how they got through it without crashing with another vehicle because they "flew" through the intersection. They crossed all the way through it onto the pavement and up the grassy uphill slope, crashing into the building wall, stopping only after entering the kitchen of the house. Her husband retired earlier in the year because of complications of his illness, which she termed "brain stuff." She was not certain of the correct name for his illness or the types of medications he was taking for his seizures or high blood pressure. Her husband was transported to the hospital immediately after being removed from the vehicle. She was transported later. Finally, after several attempts to contact the driver, he was not willing to participate in the study. A complete surrogate driver interview was obtained.

An on-scene witness said he was driving alongside V1 and saw the driver begin to slouch in his seat and then all of a sudden speed up while crossing through the intersection. V1 then ran up the hill on the side of the house into the wall and then into the building. He said that it seemed like the passenger was trying to steer for him. It all happened so fast, he said. If there were other vehicles crossing at the same time, it would have been a mess. Initially, V1 was traveling about 15 mph and then it sped up to about 40-50 mph.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V1 was "This vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded to this vehicle was "Heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act," a driver related factor. Associated factors coded to the driver include the use of prescription medications for seizures and high blood pressure, and the driver's history of seizures.