The crash occurred on a four-lane undivided east/west roadway in an intersection with a five-lane undivided north/south roadway. On the east/west roadway, there were two eastbound lanes and two westbound lanes. This was a straight, bituminous roadway with a downhill grade in the eastbound direction and a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). The intersection was controlled by a traffic signal. It was late morning on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic was flowing.

V1, a 1996 GMC Yukon utility vehicle with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane two. V1 was approaching the intersection intending to turn left. V2, a 1991 Pontiac Grand Am four-door sedan with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane two. V2 was approaching the intersection intending to go straight. The driver of V2 stated that V1 came to a stop at the intersection and then proceeded to make a left turn as V2 entered into the intersection. The driver of V2 applied the brakes and steered right but could not avoid V1. The front of V1 contacted the left front of V2. V2 came to final rest facing south in lane one of the southbound lanes. V1 left the scene of the crash and parked in a nearby apartment parking lot, where the driver of V1 abandoned the vehicle and fled on foot. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was an unknown age driver who fled the scene. No further questions could be asked.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for the driver of V1 was: This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was an unknown driver error because the driver of V1 fled the scene and was not available for questioning.

The driver of V2 was a 69-year old male. He reported injuries and was transported to a local trauma facility. He stated that he had just left home and was on his way to the grocery store. He stated that he had been traveling between 50-64 kmph (31-40 mph) prior to applying the brakes and steering right.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for the driver of V2 was: Other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to this driver were the medical conditions of diabetes, hypertension, GERD, and high cholesterol, along with the use of many prescription medications to treat these conditions.