The crash occurred in the eastbound lane one of a four-lane east/westbound roadway. This was an undivided four-lane road with one westbound lane and three eastbound lanes, including one left turn lane. Two meters south of the crash site was the entrance to a driveway. There was an intersection 50 meters east of the crash site. The posted speed was 56 kmph (35 mph). This was a well-traveled bituminous, straight and level road. The skies were clear during the early evening commuting hours on a weekday.

V1, a 1998 Honda Accord 4-door sedan driven by a 42 year-old female traveling with her 32 year-old female friend in the passenger seat, her 13 year-old son in the 2nd row left position, her 10 year-old daughter in the 2nd row middle position and her 9 year-old daughter in the 2nd row right position. The driver stated that she was driving into her driveway after leaving work ten minutes prior to the crash. She had been stopped in the westbound lane one for a few seconds, waiting for the eastbound to clear before turning left into her driveway. The vehicles in the eastbound lane three (left turn lane) and lane two were stopped for the red light at the intersection 50 meters east of her driveway on the south side of the road. A driver of a large SUV had stopped in lane, allowing enough distance for V1 to pass through the intersection. The driver of the SUV had indicated to her that she should pass through. She checked for any other oncoming vehicles before crossing over the three eastbound lanes. She had crossed over lanes three and two when she saw V2 suddenly appeared, approaching her vehicle from the right at a high rate of speed. Unfortunately, she had no time to perform any avoidance maneuvers before the front right portion of V1 crashed into front left side of V2. The force of the crash caused V1 to spin clock wise 90 degrees when the front left tire of V2 caught V1's front bumper. V1 continued making contact with V2 deeply scrapping it's left side from the front to the rear of the driver's door. V1 came to rest facing east in lane two. None of the occupants were injured. V2 veered off the road to the right hitting the right front with a tree. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 2001 Chrysler Sebring 2-door coupe was driven by a 25 year-old male. He stated that he had left work 25 minutes prior to the crash, intending to travel to his parents at their home. He was traveling east at a rate of less then 48 kmph (30 mph), intending to turn right at the intersection ahead. The light at the intersection was red and the vehicles in lane two were already stopped. He was just passing a large SUV on the right in lane two when V1 suddenly shot in front of him. In an unsuccessful attempt to avoid V1, he braked and began to steer right when the crash occurred. The force of the crash caused V2 to veer off the road to the right and crashing into a tree with the front right corner of V2. The driver was not injured.

The force of the initial contact with V1 caused the left front tire of V2 to turn left, leaving a 10 cm depression in the front right bumper of V1. Oddly enough, the right front tire of V2 was turned slightly to the right, possibly from the impact with the tree.

The Pre-Crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Pre-Crash Event was "Decision error, turned with obstructed view." Associated factors for the driver include the SUV stopped in the eastbound lane two and the driver of the SUV indicated that the path was clear for V1 to pass through., the adult friend in the passenger's seat of V1 might have blocked the driver's view of V2's approach.

The Pre-Crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There are no associated factors for the driver of V2.