The crash occurred in the northbound lane about 300 feet from a four-way intersection. It was a seven lane roadway that was divided by a concrete median. There were four lanes running northbound with lane four being a left turn only lane and three southbound lanes. The roadway was straight and level. The posted speed was 56 kmph (45 mph). The conditions were dry and clear on a weekday afternoon.

V1 was a 2001 Pontiac Grand Am that was traveling northbound in lane three when the traffic slowed due to the red light. V2 was a 2005 Cadillac STS that was also traveling in lane three and had come to a stop for the backed up traffic when V1 hit the rear of V2. Both vehicles came to final rest in lane three. V1 and V2 were both towed due to damages. The driver of V2 was transported due to injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by 17-year-old male who was on his lunch break from high school. Him and his friend were traveling northbound in lane three when he stated in his interview that the traffic had slowed due to traffic. He stated that he tried to hit his brakes to stop but "he felt a vibration under his seat and the brakes did not stop the car" which caused him to hit the back of V2. The driver was cited for the crash for failure to use due care. The driver's story was not believable as there were no skid marks and the driver's father, whose vehicle it was, was on-scene and stated there was never a problem with the brakes.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane stopped". The Critical Reason was "driver inattention". An associative factor related to this driver was he was an inexperienced driver as he had only had his license for 6 months.

V2 was traveling northbound in lane three and was driven by a 73-year-old male who was in his work vehicle running a work related errand. The driver stated in his interview that he had come to a stop for the red light and was then hit from behind by V1. The driver was transported to a local hospital with injuries. His vehicle was towed due to damages. There were no associative factors related to this driver.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed". The Critical Reason was not coded for this vehicle.