This single-vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane southbound asphalt roadway with an extended median separating it from the two northbound lanes. The roadway curves right and is downhill. The right curve is excessive enough to post warnings for a reduced advisory speed, curve warning and downhill grade warning. There are rumble strips on both sides of the roadway as well as across the lanes at the location of the warnings. The speed limit is 89 kmph (55 mph) and an advisory speed of 72 kmph (45 mph) for the curve. The sight line is restricted due to the right curve and embankment on the right side. The crash occurred at night with no lighting. There were no adverse weather or road conditions present.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Buick Park Avenue 4 door sedan, was southbound in the number 2 lane passing at least 2 other vehicles that were in the number 1 lane. Witness one (W1) stated she was traveling at 72 kmph (45 mph) when V1 passed her in the #2 lane traveling at a very high rate of speed. The witness saw the brake lights of V1 illuminate just before it began to fishtail. She stated it crossed the yellow line on the left but was unsure if it impacted the guardrail on the left before it spun around and crossed both lanes and departed the road on the right striking the embankment. Witness two (W2) who was traveling behind W1 stated he was traveling at between 64-72 kmph (40-45 mph) when V1 came up behind him in the same lane then cut around him to the left and passed him traveling at a high rate of speed. W2 then saw V1 fishtail then was out of sight until the witness rounded the right curve and saw V1 up against the embankment on the right. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1.

The driver of V1 was unable to be contacted for an interview. The driver stated in the police report that he was traveling too fast and impacted the guardrail on the left. The police report also states that the driver had been drinking.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: too fast for curve/turn.