This three-vehicle crash occurred in a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. On the south side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a curbed median and the northbound traffic lanes consist of a right-turn lane, two through lanes, and a left-turn lane. On the north side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a curbed median and the southbound traffic lanes consist of two through lanes and a left-turn lane. This roadway is uphill and straight in the northbound direction, and has a left curve and is downhill in the southbound direction, and has a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). On the east side of the intersection, the roadway is undivided with four lanes of travel. The westbound traffic lanes consist of a right-turn lane, a through lane, and a left-turn lane. This roadway is straight and level, and has a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred in the early afternoon on a weekday with moderate traffic flow.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Buick LeSabre with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane two, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2007 Volkswagen Passat with one occupant, was stopped facing southbound in lane three, waiting to turn left at the light. Vehicle three (V3), a 1998 Dodge Dakota with one occupant, was stopped facing westbound in lane two. V1 entered the intersection at the same time that V2 proceeded to turn left. The front of V1 contacted the right side of V2. V1 rotated clockwise and V2 rotated counterclockwise and there was a second impact between the right side of V2 and the left side of V1. V1 continued to travel northeast and impacted the front of V3 with its right side. V1 came to final rest facing east-northeast in lane one on the east side of the intersection. V2 came to final rest facing northeast in the intersection. V3 did not move from the point of impact. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. The driver of V1 was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, an eighty-one-year-old male, was driving from his house to visit his son. He was well rested, very comfortable with his vehicle, and drives this route daily. He is in good health and stated that he doesn't take any sort of medications, even vitamins. He has glasses that he said he was supposed to use for driving, but they were in his pocket at the time of the crash. The researcher was able to look at his license and verify that there is no vision restriction on it. He said that he had a green light at the time of the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction, over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not assigned to this vehicle.

The driver of V2, a twenty-two-year-old female, was coming from a car dealership and going to her home. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route daily. She is in good health and takes no medications. She claimed to have a green arrow at the time of the crash. She said she had been waiting at the light for more than ten seconds.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event for V2 was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e. g., failed to look, looked but did not see). The driver stated she saw V1 approximately 1-2 seconds prior to impact

The driver of V3, a fifty-three-year-old female, was driving from a car wash and going to her home. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route daily. She is in good health and takes no medications.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.