This single-vehicle crash occurred on a two lane undivided roadway. The roadway consisted of one lane in the southbound and northbound directions. This roadway curves to the west, was downhill and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). Centerline marking in the curve consists of two solid yellow lines indicating a no passing zone. This crash occurred during nighttime hours with little traffic flow. The road surface was dry. The roadway is not illuminated.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Chevrolet Cavalier with two occupants present, was southbound in lane one. In the curve, V1 started to pass a slower non-contact vehicle on the left. The vehicle initiated a clockwise rotation as it ran off the left side of the roadway. The vehicle entered the sod roadside with the left side leading. The vehicle rolled two-quarter turns before coming to rest on its top facing north in the northbound lane. V1 was towed from the scene. Neither of the occupants was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1, a seventeen-year-old male, was going to his girlfriend's house from shopping when the crash occurred. He stated he was in a hurry to get to his girlfriend's residence, was well rested, drives this route daily and is very comfortable with this vehicle. He stated being in good health and takes no medications. The driver completed driver's education less than a year ago and has been driving for approximately a year. He was talking to his passenger and listening to the radio at the time.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: aggressive driving behavior. Aggressive driving, illegal maneuver (crossing a double yellow center lane line & passing in a no-passing zone), a decision error to drive too fast for the curve, internally distracted, overcompensation, poor directional control and driver inexperience were contributing factors. The driver was in a hurry because he was late to meet his girlfriend.