This two-vehicle crash occurred in the three eastbound travel lanes of a six-lane divided interstate highway. There was a highway sign stating "Left lane closed ahead" for road construction posted approximately 0.8 kilometers (0.5 miles) prior to the lane closure. This roadway is a straight, bituminous, dry, downhill, three-lane road. The posted speed limit is 89 kmph (55 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with morning rush hour traffic.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Toyota Rav 4 with one occupant, was eastbound in lane three traveling straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 GMC W5 straight truck with one occupant, was a working vehicle stopped in lane three to close the traffic lane. Attached to the rear of V2 was a bright yellow and black striped impact attenuator lane-use warning sign used to close lane three and protect road workers, who were working on the left shoulder. The impact attenuator was angled approximately 50 degrees to deflect any vehicles that impact it, back into the travel lanes and away from the shoulder where the workers were working. The roof of the truck was also equipped with an active warning arrow indicating the left lane was closed and traffic should move into the adjacent number two travel lane. The driver of V1, to avoid the collision with the rear of V2, applied the ABS brakes and steered to the right, but was unable to avoid the collision. V1's front impacted the back of the impact attenuator. V1 deflected into lane two, and then traveled back into lane three before coming to rest on its wheels facing eastbound on the left shoulder. V2 came to final rest at impact. V1 was towed from the crash with moderate frontal damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1 and 89 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-one year-old female was driving from home to work. She stated she saw the sign that the left lane was closing and felt she had enough time to get over. She said, all of a sudden, the truck was there. She drives this roadway daily and is very comfortable with the vehicle. She was on vacation the week before the crash and was well rested. She suffers from depression and takes Lisinopril on a regular basis. She has astigmatism and was wearing her glasses at the time.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical pre-crash reason for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but id not see). Associative factors include: the construction work zone on the left shoulder; congested traffic; exterior distraction due to looking in right lane, but it was occupied; and misjudgment of gap distance and speed of where V2 was parked for the lane closure.

The driver of V2, a thirty-five year-old male who was initially sitting in the vehicle. He said he was parked there for a while and was getting hot. He had just gotten out of the vehicle to take his jacket off, hopped back in and threw a couple chips in his mouth and was hit.

The driver of V2 was treated as a witness for purposes of this study since he had gotten out of the vehicle prior to impact and V2 was a working vehicle and was legally parked closing the travel lane.