A two-vehicle collision occurred in the mid-morning during daylight hours on a Monday. The collision occurred at the intersection of two two-lane undivided roadways. The pre-crash roadways are straight and level, with bituminous paving. It was clear, and dry. The posted speed limit for the roadways is 40 kmph (25 mph). East/west traffic is controlled by stop signs.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1987 Cadillac Eldorado 2-door with two occupants, was headed eastbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Toyota 4-runner with one occupant, was northbound in lane one passing through the same intersection. As V1 crossed through the intersection without stopping for the stop sign, the passenger alerted the driver that there was a vehicle to their right, and the driver steered sharply to the left. The front of V2 struck the right rear of V1. V1 rotated clockwise as it traveled to the northeast corner of the intersection where it came to rest. V2 traveled in a northeast direction and impacted a stop sign, then a fence coming to rest against the fence. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The driver of V2 was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 67 year-old female who is reportedly in good health, with no hearing or sight restrictions. She is not very familiar with the roadway or the vehicle as she hardly ever drives at all. She is not licensed. She had just left her home and was traveling with her granddaughter; they were going to the grocery outlet then to the hospital to visit a friend. She was well rested, and today was her day off from work.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event assigned to V1 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g.,failed to look, looked but did not see). The driver failed to detect the stop sign and V2 prior to impact. An illegal maneuver is an associative factor for this driver.

The driver of V2 is a 47 year-old female, who is reportedly in good health, with no hearing or sight restrictions. She is familiar with the vehicle and roadway as she drives both of them weekly. She was on her way from home to visit her daughter. She was well rested, and today was her day off.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.