This three-vehicle crash occurred on a divided, straight roadway that intersected with a driveway. The southbound lanes consist of two through lanes that have a 4% upgrade. The speed limit on this roadway is 64 kmph (40 mph). The crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions. Other than the speed limit sign there are no traffic controls at this location.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Ford E350 Econoline van, was southbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Dodge Sprinter delivery van, and Vehicle three (V3), a 1991 Plymouth Voyager, were in front of V1 in lane two. The driver of V3 stopped in lane two at a driveway entrance to wait for northbound traffic to clear so that he could turn left. V2 stopped behind V3. The driver of V1 attempted to apply the brakes, but the front of V1 struck the back of V2. V2 moved forward and the front struck the back of V3. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-two-year-old male, was traveling with a twenty-one-year-old passenger, from their worksite to pick up other workers. This driver had only been in this city for three weeks for a job assignment, but drove on this road daily. He was comfortable with his vehicle and his passenger. He was well rested and healthy. This driver was talking with his passenger while he was driving.

The driver of V2, a fifty-five-year-old male, was driving his delivery truck between deliveries. He works extended shifts, but has been doing this type of work for many years and was very familiar with his vehicle. He was well rested at the time of the crash. He takes Lotrel for his high blood pressure and also takes vitamins, Naprosyn and aspirin. He has sleep apnea and is treated with CPAP.

The driver of V3, a twenty-nine-year-old male, was traveling from his home to a local restaurant for lunch. He was well rested, healthy and very familiar with his vehicle and his route. He stated that he was stopped, with his left turn signal on, for seven seconds prior to the crash.

The pre-event movement for V1 was coded as "going straight." The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; other vehicle stopped." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: "misjudgment of gap or other's speed." Based on crash circumstances and the forward vehicle (V2) was able to stop successfully behind V3. The driver of V1 misjudged the speed of V2, mainly due to the conversation he was having with the passenger and did not realize until it was too late that V2 had stopped in front of him and was unable to avoid the collision.

The pre-event movement for V2 was coded as "going straight." The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "not coded to this vehicle."

The pre-event movement for V3 was coded as "going straight." The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded as "other; not involved in first harmful event." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded as "not coded to this vehicle."