The crash occurred at the end of an entrance ramp to an urban limited access highway bypass roadway with a posted speed limit of 89 kmh (55 mph). The bituminous ramp is one-way (initially two lanes, negative slope and curved to the left), and becomes one lane, straight and level prior to where it merges on the right with a one-way, two-lane roadway. Conditions at the time of the weekday, morning crash were daylight, cloudy and dry.

V1, a 1997 Ford Taurus 4 door sedan driven by a 32 year-old female on her way from home to work was northbound at 56-72 kmph (35-45 mph) on the ramp trying to merge onto the roadway on the right. The driver stated that she looked to the right for a spot to merge into the heavy traffic and when she looked back straight ahead as she neared the end of the ramp, saw V2 stopped in the road in front of her. V2, a minivan, had been well ahead of V1 as she traveled on the ramp. The driver of V1 braked and swerved to the right, but the front left of v1 struck the back right of V2. V1 rotated clockwise after the impact and came to rest facing south in lanes two and three. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver was treated at the scene for injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 1994 Plymouth Voyager SE minivan driven by a 50 year-old male on his way to work was northbound on the ramp ahead of V1. The driver stated that he looked repeatedly for a chance to merge with traffic to his right and was unable to do so by the time he reached the end of the ramp, so he brought V2 to a stop. The driver observed V1 approaching from his right side mirror but was unable to take avoidance maneuvers. V2 rotated counterclockwise after the impact, left the road on the left side, and the front left of V2 contacted a guardrail, where V2 came to rest facing north. V2 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver denied injuries at the scene.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to the driver of V1 was 'other motor vehicle in lane- stopped.' The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded to v1 was 'inadequate surveillance-failed to look far enough ahead.' A Contributing Factor coded to V2 was 'false assumption of other road user's actions-assumed that other driver would merge without stopping.' An additional contributing factor coded was 'view obstruction-condition of windshield and right side windows-surface contamination of ice.' The driver of V1 failed to properly defrost the vehicle prior to the start of her morning commute.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to the driver of V2 was 'other motor vehicle in lane traveling with a higher speed.' The Critical Reason was not coded to v2. An Associated Factor coded to v2 was for 'low tread on the rear tires.'

A Contributing Factor of 'traffic flow interruption of congestion' was coded to both vehicles.