The crash occurred on a southbound four-lane interstate divided by a concrete median barrier (there were four lanes southbound and four lanes northbound). The roadway had a 2 percent downhill slope with a slight right curve and a posted speed of 89 kmph (55 mph). The sky was cloudy and the road was dry during this late morning weekend. This was a heavily traveled roadway but the traffic was light at the time.

V1, a 2000 Lincoln LS four-door sedan, was driven by a 28-year old male. V1 was traveling south in lane two when its driver decided to change lanes to the left. Already occupying the third lane of travel was a 2007 Ford Taurus sedan driven by a 64-year old female. As the driver of V1 began his lane change, he suddenly realized that V2 was next to him, so he jerked the wheel to the right to return to his own lane. This sharp action, combined with a high speed, began to send V1 out of control. The driver of V1 then jerked the wheel to the left to try to correct the path of V1. This action sent the front left of V1 into the right side of V2. The collision caused V2 to rotate clockwise while V1 began to rotate counterclockwise. During this rotation, the front right portion of V2 struck the right rear portion of V1. Both vehicles continued to rotate, and V2 skidded into the guardrail to the right, striking it with the left front of V2. V2 bounced off the guardrail and continued rotating, re-entering the roadway before departing it again to the right. The left side of V2 struck the guardrail and it came to final rest on the right shoulder, facing north. After the second impact with V2, V1 also continued rotating, but skidded to final rest on the right shoulder, also facing north, in front of V2. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The researcher talked to the driver of V1 at the scene and he stated that he didn't know what happened. Multiple attempts to contact the driver later were unsuccessful.

The driver of V2 stated that she was traveling south in lane three at 97 kmph (60 mph) when she saw and began tracking V1 in her passenger side mirror. She stated that V1 was zigzagging, apparently out of control. The driver did not have time to attempt any avoidance maneuvers before V1 struck her vehicle on the right side. She stated that the collision caused her to spin clockwise and her right front struck the right rear portion of V1. V2 then traveled across lanes one and two, onto the right shoulder and into the right guardrail. She struck the guardrail with the front left portion of V2 and then traveled back into traffic across lanes one and two, then back again into the guardrail on the right, coming to rest by the guardrail facing north ten meters south of V1.

Witness 2 stated that he was traveling behind V1 in lane one at 89 kmph (55 mph), approximately 16 kmph (10 mph) slower than V1. He stated that V1 appeared to attempt a lane change into lane three without looking. It seemed that the driver of V1 must have noticed V2's presence and over steered right and then left, striking the right rear portion of V2 with the left front portion of V1. The witness thinks V2's brake lights were on after the impact. V2 spun clockwise 180 degrees, skidding right across lane one onto the shoulder and into the guardrail. V1 spun counterclockwise, traveling right onto the shoulder. The witness stated that after the accident the driver of V1 was acting very guarded and paranoid.

Witness 1 stated that she was traveling south, five car-lengths behind V1 at a rate of 105 kmph (65 mph), the same speed as V1, when V1 seemed to spin sideways, counterclockwise 180 degrees and onto the shoulder. She did not know what caused V2, traveling in lane three, to suddenly travel over the right lanes and into right guardrail then travel back into traffic across lanes one and two and then back into the right guardrail. The witness stated that she overheard the driver of V1 state that he lost control of the vehicle

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling over the lane line on the left side." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was "Overcompensation." Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include traveling too fast and inadequate surveillance.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane (same direction) - over the right lane line." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to the driver of V2.