The crash occurred in the intersection of a four lane north-south bound roadway divided by a grassy median strip without a positive barrier, at a crossover to a driveway of a strip mall. There were two lanes in each direction. The roadway was straight, dry, asphalt with a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). The intersection was level. The northbound roadway south of the intersection had a slope of 4 percent downhill to the north. The southbound roadway north of the intersection had a slope of 4 percent downhill to the south. The crash occurred in the early evening of a weekend under clear skies while traffic was light.

V1, a 2003 Mazda M6 four-door with one occupant, was making a left turn from northbound lane 2 at the crossover to the driveway of the strip mall on the west side of the road. V2, a 1997 Plymouth Neon four-door with one occupant was southbound in lane two. V3, a 1998 Chevy Silverado pickup with two occupants was stopped in the driveway waiting to make a right turn to southbound lane one. After first stopping while northbound V1 turned left across the path of V2. V2 braked in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid impact. V2's front end struck the right rear of V1 (Event 1) causing it to rotate in a clockwise direction and pushing it westward. V1's left rear end then struck the left front of V3 (Event 2). After striking V1, V2 veered to the right and jumped a curb on the southwest edge of the driveway. V2 continued traveling in a southwesterly direction across the grass roadside until its front center struck a guy-wire (Event 3) supporting a utility pole. V1 came to rest facing east across southbound lanes 1 and 2 about 2 meters east of impact #2. V2 came to rest facing southwest about 3 meters west of the west edge of the roadway and about 6 meters from impact #1. V3 did not move from its point of impact and was facing east. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Mazda M6, was driven by a 46-year old male who was not injured. The driver reported that he was on his way from home to a store in the strip mall. He added that when he got to the crossover he stopped briefly in the northbound lane two and did not see V2 approaching so he started to turn left to the driveway and was accelerating slowly. He stated that he then saw V2 approaching in lane two southbound at a high rate of speed. He said he did not have time to take any avoidance actions and as a result was struck by V2. He was not aware that he had also struck V3.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded driver related, inadequate surveillance, failed to look, looked but did not see. The driver admitted stopping and looking prior to commencing his turn. Associated factors were assigned to V1 for driver physical health (he was taking a mediation for allergies); and for driver behavior, recognition, inadequate surveillance, failed to look far enough ahead.

V2, the Plymouth Neon, was driven by a 25-year old male who was not injured. He would not talk to the researcher so the interview was taken from the surrogate (vehicle owner). The owner said that the driver had just left his ex-wife's home on his way home. She did not know his speed. She said that the driver told her that V1 turned across V2's path and V2 could not avoid striking V1 although he had applied his brakes with lockup.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle. An associated factor was assigned to V2 for driver, physical, health due to the presence of alcohol based on the police officer's observation of the presence of alcohol. The driver refused the BAC test but was charged with DUI.

V3, the Chevy Silverado, was driven by a 44-year old male who was not injured. His 44-year old female passenger was coded for possible injury but was not transported to a hospital. The driver of V3 reported that he was stopped in the driveway yielding to oncoming traffic waiting to turn right to the southbound lanes. He reported that he was on his way home and described the actions and events that resulted in the first impact between V1 and V2. He said that after V2 struck V1, V1 spun clockwise and struck his vehicle lifting the left front wheel off the ground. He said he never moved.

The Critical Pre-crash Event and the Critical Reason for the Critical Event were not coded for V3 because it was not involved in the first harmful event. Due only to presence, an associated factor of driver behavior, recognition, was coded for this driver because he was conversing with his passenger.