The crash occurred at the urban intersection of a two-way, four lane road with a posted speed limit of 56 kmh (35 mph) and a two-way, three lane road, controlled by an on colors traffic signal. Conditions at the time of the weekday evening crash on the straight, level, bituminous, roadways were dark, unlighted, raining and wet.

V1, a 1992 Ford Escort 4 door sedan driven by an 18 year-old male on his way to pick up one more friend, was westbound on the 4 lane road stopped at the intersection waiting to turn left. The driver stated that two pedestrians were crossing the side street on his left, and all traffic was stopped waiting for them to clear. The driver indicated that an eastbound vehicle (witness) was stopped in lane one across from him, also waiting. When the pedestrians were far enough across the street, the driver of V1 proceeded to turn left. The witness stated that she was waiting to turn right, had begun her turn when it was clear, but stopped when she saw V1 proceed, even though she had the right of way. The right side of V1 was struck by V2 in the intersection. V1 rotated counterclockwise after the impact and came to rest facing north in lane one of the south leg of the intersection. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver and 16 year-old male front right passenger, denied injuries at the scene. The unrestrained 21 year-old male in the second row left side was transported from the scene due to injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 2000 Volvo V70 XC Cross Country 4 door station wagon driven by a 32 year-old male on his way from home 95 miles away to a friends home on a work related trip, was traveling eastbound on the four lane road. The driver stated that he saw V1 waiting to turn left as he approached the intersection at 35 mph, and then V1 suddenly turned right in front of him. The driver of V2 braked and steered left in an attempt to avoid the crash. Following the impact the driver of V2 slowed his vehicle and pulled into a driveway down the block. V2 was driveable following the crash. The fully restrained driver denied injuries at the scene.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to the driver of V1 was 'this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection.' The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded was 'a driver related recognition error of inadequate surveillance-failure to look far enough ahead.' Contributing factors coded to this driver were for 'other traffic flow interruption factor-pedestrians in walkway on road.' Associated factors coded to this driver were for concerns related to his substance abuse program, depression, bi-polar health issues, and possible side effects of his three prescribed medications. The driver also reported that his vehicle was in 'poor' condition prior to the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to the driver of V2 was 'other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line.' The Critical Reason was not coded to this driver.