The crash occurred in the westbound lanes of an east/westbound interstate highway divided by positive barriers and a grassy median. There were two lanes in each direction. The crash area was within a marked lengthy construction zone. The roadway was asphalt, level and dry with a slight curve to the left (radius of curvature of 515m and super-elevation of 1%) and a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). There was a very narrow shoulder (1.2m) on the left and a .45m shoulder with 61.m long concrete barriers next to it on the right. Traffic was heavy due to the construction zone and weekend traffic and skies were clear and the crash occurred just after noon.

V1, a 2006 Chevy HHR four door SUV with three occupants, was traveling westbound in lane two. V2, a 1998 Dodge Caravan minivan with two occupants, was traveling westbound in lane one slightly behind V1. V3, a 2007 Chevy Silverado pickup truck with four occupants was westbound in lane two ahead of V1. All the drivers were from out of state and unfamiliar with the roadway. V1 slowed due to traffic ahead and started to change to lane one. Its right front struck the left front of V2 (Event 1) causing it to veer to the right where it struck the concrete barrier with its front right (Event 2). After the first impact V1 also veered to the right and its front right struck the concrete barrier (Event 3) and then veered to the left. V2 flipped over longitudinally to its left side (Event 4) and started skidding westward. V2's top (engine hood) then struck the right rear of V1 as it continued westward on its left side while rotating in a counter-clockwise direction across both lanes. V1's front left struck the rear right of V3 as V1 was traveling westward while rotating in a counter-clockwise direction. V1 came to rest facing south across the center stripe about 45m west of the first point of impact. V2 came to rest on its left side, facing southeast straddling the two lanes about 30m from the first point of impact. V3 pulled over to the left shoulder shortly after impact and stopped facing west. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Chevy HHR, was driven by a 59-year old male who was not injured. His passengers were not transported to a hospital but the right front seat passenger was coded for non-incapacitating injuries and the passenger laying across the second row seats was not injured. The driver and his passengers made several references to the fact that they had to be home in another state so the driver could report to work the night of the crash. They were very anxious. They were traveling home from vacation. The driver reported that he was traveling in lane two at about 72 kmph (45 mph) and that traffic was heavy. He said he saw brake lights ahead so decided to change lanes to the right. He said he did not signal. As he moved to the right the driver did not see V2 and took no evasive actions before impact. He was not certain when he struck V3.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the right side of the travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was inadequate surveillance failed to look. Looked but did not see. Associated factors were assigned to V1 for driver physical condition (diabetes and high cholesterol); inadequate surveillance, failed to look to side; other decision factor - changed lanes without signaling; emotional - in a hurry (to get to work); for experience (this was his first time on the roadway); and other - highway construction work zone.

V2, the Dodge Caravan, was driven by a 60-year old male. Both he and his passenger were transported to a hospital, he with non-incapacitating injuries and she with possible injuries. The driver's spouse reported that the driver was traveling at an unknown speed in lane one as they were returning home from vacation. She said the driver took no evasive actions because he never saw V1 prior to impact.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane, same direction, other the left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle. Associated factors were assigned to this vehicle for driver physical condition other - acid reflux (due to presence); for driver experience - the driver rarely drove this roadway; emotional - work related stress; and highway - construction work zone.

V3, the Chevy Silverado, was driven by a 33-year old female. Neither she nor her passengers were injured. The driver was traveling state to state in route home and was traveling about 89kph/55mph. She was not aware that she was going to be struck and took no evasive actions.

The Critical Precrash Event and the Critical Reason for the Event were not coded for this vehicle since it was not involved in the first harmful event. The only associated factors assigned for this vehicle were for driver physical condition - bad thyroid (due to presence); for driver experience - she rarely drove this roadway; and highway - construction work zone.