This crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of an intersection related roadway with four lanes of traffic running east separated with a raised curbed median and three lanes of traffic running westbound. The roadway had a slight curved to left measured at 5-meter increments on a 15-meter section of the roadway. The conditions were dry and clear on weekday morning during rush hour. The posted speed was 72 kmph (45 mph).

V1 was a 2001 Mazda MPV minivan that was traveling eastbound in lane three when the traffic slowed down due to morning rush hour. V2, a 1999 Ford Explorer, was slowing down in lane three. V3, a 1999 Mitsubishi Montero, was stopped in lane three for backed up traffic. V1 was traveling about 40 kmph (25 mph) when the traffic in front suddenly began to slow. V1 braked and steered to the right but could not avoid hitting the right rear of V2. V2 was then pushed into the back of V3 who had already come to a complete stop. V1 was towed due to damages. V2 was not towed due to damages. V3 was not towed due to damages. No one was injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 49-year-old male who was on his way to drop off his daughter at school for a field trip. He was keeping up with traffic as it was morning rush hour and the traffic was stop and go. He stated that the SUV in front of him suddenly slowed down. He slammed on his brakes and tried to steer to the right to avoid hitting V2. He was not successful and hit the back of V2 then pushing V2 into the back of V3. The driver was not conversing with his 9-year-old passenger prior to the crash. He stated that was not a distraction as he was just following too closely to respond to another driver's actions. He stated that he was so close because he was keeping up with the morning traffic. He was cited for the crash for failure to use due care.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded other vehicle in lane traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason was a driver related factor, following too closely to respond to unexpected actions of others. The rush hour traffic was coded as an associated factor.

V2 was driven by a 50-year-old woman who had just stopped to get something to eat for breakfast and was on the way to drop her daughter off at work. She was traveling eastbound in lane three and started to slow down when she saw the SUV in front of her come to a stop. She was then hit from behind and pushed into the back of V3. The driver admitted to eating just prior to the crash but was not thought to have contributed to the crash. There were no other associative factors related to this driver. She was not injured and her vehicle was not towed due to damages.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors include the fact that the driver was eating at the time of the crash as well as the rush hour traffic.

A 41-year-old woman who was on her way to work drove V3. She had come to a full stop in lane three due to morning rush-hour traffic. She was stopped when she was hit from behind. She stated that she turned her head and saw V2 hit her. She was not injured.

The Critical Precrash Event for V3 was coded other, not involved in the first harmful event. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The rush hour traffic was coded as an associated factor.