This two-vehicle crash occurred approximately two blocks before a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. At the crash site, the roadway is undivided and the southbound traffic lanes consist of two through lanes and a left-turn lane. This roadway is straight and uphill in the southbound direction and has a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred in the early afternoon hours on a weekday with lunchtime traffic congestion.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Chrysler Concorde with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Honda Accord with one occupant, was stopped in lane two in front of V1. V2 was behind non-contact vehicles waiting for the traffic signal to turn green. V1 failed to stop for traffic and the front of V1 impacted the rear of V2. Both vehicles came to rest facing south in lane two near the point of impact. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, an eighty-year-old female, was driving from a bank and going to a car wash. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route weekly. She is in good health and takes no medications. She stated that she looked down to adjust the station on the radio and when she looked back up, traffic was stopped. She applied the brakes, but not in time to avoid the impact with V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction. Inadequate surveillance was coded as an associative factor for failing to look far enough ahead.

The driver of V2, a sixty-three-year-old female, was driving from a store to her home. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route weekly. She is in good health and takes no medications. The driver uses a CPAP machine to treat her sleep apnea.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.