This three-vehicle crash occurred at an urban four-legged, signal-controlled intersection with pedestrian crosswalks and raised curbs present in all direction. Northbound approach consists of three lanes; two straight lanes and a dedicated left turn lane. It is straight with a +3.4% uphill grade. Southbound approach consists of three lanes; two straight lanes and a dedicated left turn lane. It is straight with a -2.1% downhill grade. Setting was evening rush hour on a weekday. Conditions were daylight with clear skies.

Vehicle 1 is a 1998 Pontiac Grand Prix, four-door, full-size with one occupant traveling northbound in lane two. Vehicle 2 is a 2005 Toyota Sienna, minivan with two occupants traveling southbound in lane three, the left turn lane. Vehicle 3 is a 1997 Lincoln Town Car, four-door, largest with two occupants traveling southbound in lane three, directly behind V2. V2 was in the intersection with the intention of turning left. When V2's overhead light changed to amber, it proceeded to make its left turn. V2 was then struck on its right side, front plane by the front end of V1 (event 1). V1 in order to beat the light, accelerated into the intersection where the crash occurred. After impact, V1 traveled 22.5 meters (74 feet) and came to final rest in its original travel lane. V2 after impact, rotated counterclockwise and contacted the front-end of V3 with its front-end (event 2). V2 came to final rest facing north 8.2 meters (27 feet) north of event 1. V3 came to rest at the point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1 and 80 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 21 year-old male construction worker who works 40 hours per week. He reported being injured, but was not transported. He was on his way home from work about 20 minutes away. He was hungry and went through the drive-through window at Wendy's. He pulled out of Wendy's into travel lane two. He noticed the light change from green to yellow, so he accelerated to 72 kph (45 mph). He wanted to "catch the light." He then saw V2 pull into his path from the opposing direction. Since he was accelerating, he had no time to make any avoidance maneuvers. He hit V2 head-on at an angle. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "Other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction, over the left lane line." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "Not coded to this vehicle." This driver falsely assumed that since he had the right of way, nobody would turn in front of him. The driver was traveling to fast for conditions, considering he accelerated to "catch" the light with heavy traffic around him. Rush hour congestion was coded as a highway factor.

The driver of V2 is a 50 year-old female who was not injured in the crash. She had her 10 year-old son in the back seat and they were on their way to pick up her daughter from dance school. She was in the left turn lane "inching" into the intersection because her light had just changed to yellow. She noticed a car stopped in the opposing direction lane one, so she looked down lane two and saw nobody coming, so she started to accelerate and turn left. A split second after starting her turn, "V1 came out of nowhere, and struck her head-on." After impact, her car spun counterclockwise and struck the front of V3. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason fro the Critical Event was "Looked, but did not see, a driver error." The driver claimed to have looked before proceeding, but never saw V1 coming. An associated factor was her sightline restriction. The witness vehicle stopped in northbound lane three most likely obstructed her view of V1. This driver suffers from an undisclosed bone condition, in which she takes daily prescription medication for. Her 10 year-old son in the back seat may have caused a distraction for her. Rush hour congestion was coded as the only roadway factor.

The driver of V3 was a 53 year-old male who was not injured. He had just picked his daughter up from school and was going to stop by his attorney's office before heading home. He was driving behind V2 in the left turn lane. He saw V2 inching forward into the intersection, and he also saw V1 traveling in northbound lane two. He was talking to his daughter about how an accident might happen right in front of them. He said that V2 had a yellow light at the time of impact. After V1 and V2 collided, as he predicted they would, V2 spun around and very lightly struck his front left corner causing minimal damage. His vehicle was driven from the scene.

The Critical Precrash Event for V3 was "Other crash type, this vehicle not involved in the first harmful event." This driver was talking with his daughter, who was in the front, passenger seat of his car, a driver distraction. This driver has vision impairment, but is not required to wear glasses to drive, only for reading. He also suffers from High BP, which he treats with prescription medication. He wouldn't discuss his sleep schedule, so its unknown if there were any fatigue issues. The rush hour congestion was the only other associated factor.