The crash occurred on the west roadside of a two-way, undivided, suburban roadway. There was a long S-curve facing downhill on a 3% grade with one northbound lane, one southbound lane, and a right turn lane. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). Conditions were dark but lighted, wet, and raining. The setting was late evening hours on a weeknight.

Vehicle one was a 2001 Jeep Grand Cherokee sport utility traveling south in lane two. V1 negotiated a left curve and then traveled off the right roadside. V1 continued on the west roadside and impacted a mailbox with its front. V1 continued further over a driveway and then impacted a metal road sign post with its front. The impact with the signpost caused V1 to climb over the post and then roll right. V1 impacted the ground and then returned to the roadway while continuing to roll. V1 crossed the roadway into the oncoming lane and came to rest on its left side straddling the centerline. The Jeep sport utility was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1.

The Jeep Grand Cherokee (V1) was driven by a 25-year old male who was transported to a local trauma center with non-incapacitating injuries. The driver stated that he was heading to his parent's house from home. The driver described a situation where he overcompensated to the right. He also mentioned a brake recall to his vehicle. However, when asked to elaborate, the driver could not accurately recount any of the events of the crash or the actual location of the wreck. He estimated his travel and impact speeds to be 80 kmph (50 mph). The medical report shows that his blood alcohol level was .246 and that he tested positive for cocaine.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side". The Critical Reason was a driver related factor of driving "too fast for a curve". This vehicle was loaded with approximately 23 kilograms (50 pound) of cargo, which was not believed to have shifted prior to impact. This driver had previous panic attacks for which he had been prescribed prescription medication. He was taking four medications Ativan, Adderall, Benicar and Zyrtec.