This crash occurred in the middle of a four-way controlled intersection. The west approach consists of six lanes, 4 going west (two being left turn only lanes) and 2 going east. The east approach consists of 5 lanes three going east (one being a left turn only lane) and the other two lanes going west. All the roads involved are undivided roadways, straight, level, and bituminous. The east/west roadway had a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). The north/south roadway has a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The crash occurred in the early morning of a weekday, just prior to the start of rush hour. The roads were wet due to on and off rain all morning and the skies were dark and cloudy. The intersection was lit by streetlights. Traffic flow was steady.

V1, a 1993 Plymouth Voyager minivan, was traveling west in lane four intending on making a left at the intersection. V2, a 1995 Ford Escort station wagon, was traveling east in lane two intending on continuing straight through the intersection. Both vehicles approached the intersection to a red light and stopped. When the light changed it changed the green arrow first allowing the west and east roadways to make left turns from their given lanes. V1 followed the vehicle in front of him through the intersection. As V1 was going through the intersection, V2 ran the red light and proceeded straight through the intersection striking the front of V1. Both vehicles came to final rest in the southwest corner of the intersection approximately 10 meters from point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Plymouth Voyager, was driven by a 75-year-old male who reported possible injuries and was transported to a medical facility. In a surrogate interview, his son-in-law stated that he was on his way home from the park-and-ride after dropping him off. He approached the intersection to a red light and there was another vehicle in front of him and vehicles on the right side of him as he was stopped. When the green arrow was illuminated for him to go, he proceeded to make a left at the intersection following the other vehicles. As he was negotiating the turn he was struck by V2. He did not see him prior to the collision thus he did not try to avoid the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded as, "This vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as, "turned with obstructed view". The other associated factors that were coded to this driver is the impending problem that was masked by traffic flow patterns. Driver stated to his son in law, with the other vehicles also turning it made it difficult for him to be able to see that V2 ran the red light. The other associated factors coded to this driver were wet roads, and rainy, cloudy conditions were contributing factors in this crash.

V2, the Ford Escort, was driven by a 28-year-old male who reported no injuries. The driver stated that he was on his way to work from home and stopped at the intersection due to the red light. The driver stated that he was tired this morning and when he saw the green arrow he mistook it for a green light to allow him to head straight through the intersection. Since the driver is familiar with the intersection, he knew that when the light to go straight was illuminated, then the vehicles that are making a left would have a red light, giving him a clear intersection. However, he was incorrect and struck V1 as he entered the intersection.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as, "Other motor vehicle encroachment- from opposite direction over left lane line". The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this driver. The associated factors that were coded to this driver is that the driver was fatigued. Driver failed to look to either side ahead and driver failed to obey traffic control devices. The wet roads and rainy, cloudy conditions were also contributing factors in the crash.