This two-vehicle crash occurred on an undivided five-lane urban roadway. Traffic was stopped for a traffic light a block or two away. Northbound traffic consists of two through lanes. Southbound traffic consists of two through lanes and one left turn lane. The roadway was bituminous, dry, straight with an uphill grade and a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred in the late afternoon with heavy rush hour traffic flow.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Volkswagen Jetta four-door with two occupants, was in lane two going straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 2007 Honda Accord four-door with one occupant, was in lane two in front of the V1 stopped in traffic. The driver of V1 turned her head to look at the occupant in the back seat in position 22 and looked back and found traffic was stopped. She applied her brakes, which locked up and swerved a little to the right and impacted with the front to V2's back. V1 came to rest on its wheels facing north in lane two. V2 was pushed forward slightly and came to rest on its wheels facing north in lane two. V1 was towed from the scene due to moderate frontal damage. V2 was towed from the scene because the driver was leery about the airbags deploying later. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-seven year-old female, was driving from her mother's house after picking up her son and going home. Her son was sick and she was quite worried about him. She turned her head around to check on her son prior to the collision. She is ten weeks pregnant and was tired and sick herself. She is now taking Nature's Way on a regular basis because of the pregnancy, and Albuterol as needed for alergies. She was wearing her glasses and is unsure of her vision condition. She is very familiar with her vehicle and drives this route weekly.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical pre-crash reason for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction. Associative factors include fatigued, sick, in a hurry, failed to look far enough ahead, turned her head to the rear to look at the occupant and congested traffic.

The driver of V2, a forty-four year-old female, was driving from work to pick her daughter up from school. She is very familiar with the vehicle and is now driving this roadway four times a day because of her daughter's school. She stated she was not in a hurry, although she was late in picking up her daughter. She was well rested and very familiar with the vehicle. She is in good health and takes Vitamins, Fish Oil, Singulair, Spironolactone and Yasmin on a regular basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical pre-crash reason for V2 was not coded to this vehicle.