This crash occurred in the intersection of a 3-way intersection. The north and southbound roadway was an undivided, uncontrolled roadway that consisted of one lane in each direction. The eastbound approach to the intersection was an undivided two-lane roadway that was controlled by a stop sign. Both roads were straight, level, and bituminous. The north/south roadway had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The crash occurred in the late afternoon on a weekday. The roads were dry and skies were clear. The traffic flow was heavy and congested with a lot of stop-and-go traffic.

V1, a 2006 Suzuki Forenza 4-door sedan with two occupants, was traveling east in lane one intending to make a left turn at the intersection to travel north. V2, a Ford LTL9000 tractor-trailer, was traveling north in lane one intending to continue north. When V1 approached the intersection, there was a lot of traffic on the north/south roadway and a non-contact vehicle traveling in the southbound lane left a spot to allow V1 to make the left into the northbound lane. Due to heavy traffic and a larger non-contact vehicle to the right of V1, the driver needed to inch out in order to see the traffic coming from the north. As V1 was inching out, V2 was approaching the intersection and realized that V1 was unable to see him because of the non-contact vehicle blocking his view. V2 began to blow his horn to alert V1 that it was not clear for him to inch out. V1 was partially in V2's lane when he was able to see him. V1 decided to accelerate straight onto the shoulder to avoid an accident, but was unsuccessful. The front of V2 struck the right rear side of V1. V1 rotated clockwise and came to final rest off the roadway approximately 7 meters east of point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Suzuki Forenza, was driven by a 48-year-old male who reported "C" injuries and was transported to a medical facility from the accident scene. The passenger, a 14-year-old female, was also transported to a medical facility from the accident scene with reported "C" injuries. The driver stated that he was picking up his daughter from his mother-in-law's house and was taking her home. When he came to the stop sign, he stopped but there was a lot of traffic making it difficult for him to make a left turn onto the roadway. One of the vehicles that was heading southbound stopped and allowed V1 to go. The driver stated that he was inching out a little at a time because it was very difficult to see the roadway because of a larger vehicle on his right. When he was partially out in the other lane, he saw V2 coming and he thought his best chance at avoiding a collision would be to accelerate onto the shoulder and letting V2 pass. V1 was unsuccessful in this maneuver and was struck by V2. This strike rotated V1 clockwise off the roadway where V1 came to final rest.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event that was coded to V1 was "This vehicle traveling - turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as "Turned with obstructed view," a driver decision error. Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include the fact that the impending problem (V2) was masked by the traffic flow pattern, incorrect evasive action, rush hour congestion, and a sightline restriction caused by the stopped non-contact vehicles to V1's right.

V2, the Ford tractor-trailer, was driven by a 26-year-old male who reported no injuries. The driver would provide only a partial interview and referred to the police report. The driver told police that he was heading northbound and when he saw that V1 was entering his lane, he began to blow his air horn. When V1 entered the lane of V2, he began to brake and pull onto the shoulder to avoid the collision but was unsuccessful. The front of V2 struck the right rear of V1.

The Critical Pre-crash Event coded to V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into same direction." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factor that was coded to this vehicle was rush-hour congestion.