This two-vehicle rear-end crash occurred mid afternoon on a clear day. The crash occurred on a straight, level, dry, two-lane (for northbound traffic), bituminous interstate roadway that was under construction at the time of the crash. This roadway runs north/south and the posted speed limit was 113 kmph (70 mph). There is a 0.8 meter (2.6 feet) improved asphalt shoulder on the east and a 2.8-meter (9 feet) shoulder on the west. Orange and white vertical panels were positioned on the left shoulder. Construction was occurring in the depressed sod median.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Ford F150 with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 BMW 325 with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane two in front of V1. A non-contact vehicle slowed down in lane two causing V2 to decelerate suddenly and steer to the left. When V2 slowed, the front of V1 contacted the rear of V2 partially on the left shoulder of the roadway. Both vehicles came to rest on the shoulder. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 113 kmph for V1 and 113 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 was a healthy, well-rested 47-year-old male who was on a work related trip. He advised that he was familiar with the roadway and was comfortable driving the vehicle. He stated that V2 slowed down suddenly to avoid contacting a non-contact vehicle and he was unable to slow down in time to avoid striking V2 in the back. The driver stated he was traveling approximately 97 kmph (60 mph) and had been following V2 for some time. He estimated the gap at 28 meters (30 feet). At this distance, the driver did not have time to react to the braking action from V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: following too closely to respond to respond to unexpected actions.

The driver of V2 was a healthy, well-rested 40-year-old female who was on her way from work to pick up her son and take him to a doctor's appointment. She was following another vehicle that braked hard so this driver braked and steered left and successfully avoided the vehicle in front of her. She is familiar with the vehicle and drives the route weekly.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling-this vehicle decelerating. A critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle.