This single-vehicle crash occurred along a stretch of north/south roadway. Northbound approach had a slight right curve profile with a slight super-elevation, before straightening out. This roadway contained two lanes with paved shoulders on both sides of the road. A 9.1 meter (30 foot) grass median divided the north/south lanes with positive metal guardrails on the east and west side of the grass median. The posted speed limit was 104 kmph (65 mph) and the road surface was bituminous asphalt with rumble strips present on both sides of the road. Setting was late afternoon hours on a weekend. Conditions were daylight, dry with overcast skies. Traffic flow was light.

Vehicle 1 was a 2005 Jeep Grand Cherokee with one occupant, was northbound in lane two. As V1 traveled along in lane two at an estimated 128 kmph (80 mph), a car in front of V1 hit its brakes for an unknown reason. V1 swerved to the right to avoid contacting the car in front of it, departing its travel lane and entering the right paved shoulder. Once on the shoulder, V1 traveled approximately 17 meters (56 feet) before the driver steered hard left, re-entering the travel lanes. V1 then traveled across both lanes leaving approximately 35 meters (115 feet) of yaw marks before contacting the left guardrail with its front plane (event 1). V1 traveled over the guardrail and rode along it causing damage to the undercarriage between the front and rear wheels (event 2). After traveling approximately 18 meters (59 feet) along the guardrail, V1 overturned, right side leading (event 3). V1 rolled right four quarter turns and came to final rest in the grass median between both sets of guardrails facing southeast, approximately 40 meters (131 feet) from first impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is 129 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1 is a 20 year-old male driver who sustained bumps and bruises and was transported to the hospital for treatment. He tells me he was on his way from a nearby military town to pick up a friend at the airport. He had borrowed his friend's wife's Jeep, which he's done a few times in the past to make the trip. He was on the road for about 45 minutes leading up to the crash. He was in lane two traveling at 104 kmph (65 mph) when his eyes glimpsed off the road at something (he didn't remember what, in which direction or if it was internal or external). When his eyes returned back to the road, the car in front of him had unexpectedly slammed on its brakes. To avoid rear-ending that vehicle, he steered hard to the right without braking, departing his lane and drove onto the right shoulder. He then steered left, "overcorrecting" causing his Jeep to rotate counterclockwise. He hit the guardrail and overturned 1 complete revolution (4 quarter turns) he thinks, but honestly couldn't really remember the details very clearly. His car came to rest on its wheels in the median. He departed his vehicle and waited for EMS.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded overcompensation, a driver error. Alcohol consumption was as associated factor in the crash. Police and EMS told me on-scene that this driver was "drunk." Speeding was also a factor in the crash. Since the driver denied speeding in my interview with him, it's unknown why he was traveling above the posted speed limit.