The crash occurred in the center of a "T" intersection composed of a 6-lane north/southbound divided roadway, and a one-lane westbound roadway. All roadways were bituminous and level. The north/southbound roadway had a posted speed limit of 80 kmph (50 mph) and the westbound roadway had a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The intersection was controlled by traffic lights. It was afternoon on a weekday. The roads were dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was moderate.

V1, a 2003 Chevrolet Impala 4-door sedan with two occupants, was traveling north in the left turn lane (lane 3) when it attempted to turn left at the intersection without observing the traffic signal. V1 was struck by V2, a southbound 2004 Chevrolet Suburban with 3 occupants, on the front right corner and then again on the right rear quarter panel. V2 then continued southwest, mounting a curb and striking a wagon being used as a flower display. V2 attempted to avoid the crash by steering right. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by an 85-year-old male and occupied by an 84-year-old female who both reported complaints of pain and were transported. The driver of V1 stated that they were on the way home after attending a funeral and was unsure about what happened because he blacked out prior to turning left. V1 made no avoidance maneuver.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling -turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as an internal distraction due to conversation with the passenger. It was not believed that the driver blacked out. The driver made no mention of a blackout to police but told the researcher that he blacked out prior to turning at the intersection. The driver and passenger were discussing a family funeral that they had just left. The driver was upset after attending the funeral. Also coded as associated factors were driver inattention and an illegal maneuver for failing to stop for the red left turn arrow.

The driver of V2, a 35-year-old female, reported a complaint of pain and was transported. The occupants, a 5-year-old female and a 30-month-old male, were both transported as well. The driver stated that she was passing through the intersection when V1 attempted to turn left in front of her. She attempted to avoid V1 by steering right.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line." No Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were assigned.