This single vehicle crash occurred on an rural two-lane dirt constructed road. This road runs north to south with varying grades and curves. This road has new utility poles being installed on the west side of the road with many poles laying on the roadside to be installed. There is no posted speed limit for this road and drivers are subject to speed that is prudent and reasonable. This crash occurred shortly before mid night during darkness with no street lighting and no adverse weather.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Mitsubishi Galant sedan, driven by a twenty four year old female. V1 was southbound going about 64 kmph (40 mph) when rounding a left hand curve it slid right off the roadway and impacted a rock and utility pole that was laying on the side of this road. V1 impacted the pole with its front plane then bounced left and impacted the post again with its left side. V1 slid up the pole and came to stop on the road edge heading in a westerly direction. The driver was not injured and drove her vehicle back in the direction she had come from (north). This driver drove this vehicle until the transmission ran out of fluid and coasted this vehicle off the left hand road edge into a pull out area. The driver then called a relative on her cell phone and was picked up and taken to the relatives house. The police were called by a passerby thinking this was a fresh crash and the police and EMS responded to the parked vehicle. The driver was not injured and V1 was towed from the scene as ordered by the police department. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver, when interviewed a couple of days later, stated that she and her husband had been arguing and that she had left the house to cool off. As she was driving she entered the left hand curve and realized that she was going too fast and jammed on the brakes. This caused V1 to slide off the roadway and impact the pole. After the impact she attempted to drive back home but ran out of transmission fluid and came to stop off the roadway. She claims to be in good health and does not take any medications. She stated that she was upset with her husband and was not thinking straight when she left the house and was probably going too fast for this road.

The critical pre-crash event was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: too fast for curve/ turn. Inattention was an associated factor as the driver was upset due to a family argument.