The crash occurred in a signalized intersection of two roadways. The north/south roadway was two-way with two lanes in each direction. The east/west roadway was two-way with one lane of travel in each direction. The roadway was straight and level, and it was clear with no adverse conditions. It was the evening hours of a weekend, and the speed limit was 48 kmph (30 mph).

V1, a 2002 Ford Expedition sport utility vehicle with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane two. V2, a Harley-Davidson motorcycle with two occupants, was traveling westbound in lane one, and attempting to make a left turn. At the intersection, the front of V1 contacted the right side of V2. The front of V1 then impacted a wood utility pole 13 meters south of the intersection. The front of V1 then contacted a pedestrian whom was standing near the utility pole. V2 came to a final rest approximately 10 meters south of the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Ford Expedition, was driven by a 26 year-old male who reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. He stated to the Police that he was traveling southbound when V2 cut him off, causing him to loose control and impact the utility pole and the pedestrian.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V1 was "other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, turning into same direction". The Critical Reason for the Critical event was not coded to the driver. The possible associated factors were coded unknown because no interview was obtained.

V2, the Harley-Davidson motorcycle, was driven by a 36 year-old male who reported incapacitating injuries and was transported to a medical facility. A 29 year-old occupant reported minor injuries and was also transported to a medical facility. The driver stated to the Police that he was making a left turn at the intersection when he was impacted by V1.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V2 was "this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical event was an “unknown reason”. The possible associated factors were coded unknown because no interviews were obtained.