This crash occurred on a two-lane two-way roadway. The speed is posted at 40 kmph (25 mph). The roadway was straight, level, and bituminous. The crash occurred at night and the roadway was lighted. The driver of this vehicle a 1996 Chevrolet Camaro had previously been in an altercation and was fleeing having bricks thrown at his vehicle. As the driver accelerated the vehicle eastward down the roadway in reverse the driver attempted to turn into a driveway to the right (North side) of the roadway to turn his vehicle around and leave the area. As the driver steered his vehicle into the driveway the vehicle slid at an angle to contact a utility pole off the edge of the driveway to the east. The driver and his occupants were not injured in the crash. The vehicle was towed due to vehicle damage.

The driver of V1, a17 year-old male that stated he is in good health and taking no medications at the time of the crash. The driver stated he and friends had drove to the area to help a female friend retrieve her belongings from anther person's home. After an altercation the driver and his passengers were leaving the area. The driver stated he noticed a person running down the middle of the roadway with a brick in hand. He stated he accelerated in reverse down the roadway at a high rate of speed. He stated he did not want to enter the intersection at the end of the roadway and thought he could turn quickly into the driveway on the right side of the roadway turning his vehicle around and getting away from the persons throwing the bricks. He stated as he turned the steering wheel he was traveling too fast to make the turn sliding into a utility pole. He stated he had his right arm over the shoulder of his front seat passenger because he did not have the passenger door closed fully. He stated he was steering with his left hand looking out the rear back light of the vehicle. He also noticed the passenger in the back right seat was not belted in because of his football and baseball equipment for school. He stated he was dazed from the crash and does not remember how they exited the vehicle. He dose remember looking for his cell phone to contact police and finding it about 30ft. behind the vehicle in the front yard of the home where the crash occurred. He stated the police were there before he contacted them. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The occupant in the right front seat stated they were in the area to help a female friend pick up her belongings and had never been in the area before. He stated after returning to the vehicle, he and the driver noticed a person running toward their vehicle with a brick in hand. He stated the driver accelerated very fast to avoid the person throwing the brick. He state he thinks the driver thought he cold turn the vehicle around very fast by turning the steering wheel and applying the brakes but never applied the brakes then contacting the utility pole. He then stated he and the other passenger exited the vehicle with baseball bats in hand to protect them selves from the persons coming down the roadway. He stated the driver was looking for his cell phone to contact the police.

A witness stated that when the driver and his passenger arrived earlier, her husband and her where sitting on their porch and asked the driver to please back his vehicle up from the edge of the driveway just in case he would have to get his work truck out of driveway. She then could hear people arguing down the roadway. She stated the driver and his passengers then returned and got into their vehicle. She stated she never saw anyone running down the roadway. She stated the drive accelerated very fast down the road and the next thing she heard was the vehicle hitting the utility pole. She then stated she and her husband walked out to the sidewalk to see what the driver and occupants were doing and to make sure no one was injured. She stated the passenger in the front seat exited the vehicle with a baseball bat and stood there holding the bat until police arrived on scene.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was coded: "This vehicle traveling off the edge of roadway on the right side". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded: "Driver related factor - Too fast for condition's (Aggressive driving in reverse at high rate of speed)". The associated factors to this driver were the fact that he and his passengers had just been involved in an altercation, the driver was inexperienced at the driving task and the high speed of the vehicle.

This researcher did find a baseball bat at the scene and also found evidence that a brick or rock was thrown at the vehicle striking the passenger side of the hood area.