The crash occurred on an undivided north/south two-lane roadway (one lane in each direction). This was a straight bituminous section of the road with a downhill slope of 2 percent in the northbound direction and an uphill slope of 4 percent in the southbound direction at the site of the crash. The posted speed was 64 kmph (40 mph) and it was a mid to late evening on a weekday; the sky was cloudy with freezing temperatures and the road was dry.

V1, a 1996 Nissan Maxima four-door sedan, was driven by a 24-year-old male traveling with his 22-year-old girlfriend who was nine-months pregnant. The driver stated that he had traveled south ten miles from his grandmother's home en route to his mother's home when the crash occurred. He was driving south in lane one talking casually with his girlfriend. He was paying attention to the road with both hands on the wheel when his girlfriend pointed at V2 blocking the roadway ahead. In an unsuccessful attempt to avoid a collision the driver applied the brakes, but the brakes locked and V1 skidded into V2. The passenger was transported with injuries to her wrist and the driver was uninjured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2 was a 2001 Nissan Altima four-door sedan driven by a 50-year-old female. The driver stated that she was on her way home and had just left her daughter's house traveling north in lane one when the engine started making odd noises. Fearing the vehicle would break down, she decided make a U-turn and return to her daughter's home. She had positioned V2 across the southbound lane one facing west when V1 struck the right passenger portion of V2 with the front portion of V1. The driver was not injured. The driver would not provide further information.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was "Other motor vehicle encroachment from opposite direction - over left lane line." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. The associated factors for the driver of V1 include a very dark, hilly roadway, and conversing with his passenger.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was "This vehicle traveling over the lane line on the left side of travel lane." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was "Decision error, illegal maneuver." Associated factors coded to the driver were her concerns over the mechanical problems of her vehicle, making a U-turn on a dark, hilly road, inadequate surveillance, and an unidentified vehicle problem.