This two-vehicle rear-end crash occurred during the early morning hours on a Friday. The location was an industrial area inside the city limits. There were no view obstructions and the roadway was straight and level. The road surface was a bituminous three-lane, two-way, with one lane in each direction and a center two-way left turn only lane. There were curbs and sidewalks on both roadsides and a railroad crossing east of the crash location. The posted speed limit was 64 kmph (40 mph). The weather was clear the road was dry and it was daylight with the morning sun low in the horizon.

Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 Nissan Regular cab pickup with one occupant, was stopped in traffic eastbound. The vehicle was stopped behind a line of other vehicles waiting for a train to cross the roadway. The vehicle had been stopped for some time prior to impact. Vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Toyota Scion TC three door hatchback with one occupant, was traveling eastbound also in the curb lane approaching the railroad crossing. The driver of V1 stated the sun was in his eyes and he did not see the stopped traffic or V2 until the last second. He applied the brakes and tried to steer right, but the front left of V1struck the rear right of V2. Both vehicles came to rest in the eastbound lane. V1 was towed due to damage; V2 was driven from the scene. Neither occupant was injured Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 56 year-old male. He was not wearing his glasses, because they were being repaired. He stated he was on his way to pick them up when the collision occurred. The driver stated he is both near and far sighted. He did not comply with the restrictions on his driver's license. He also complained that the sun glare prevented him from seeing V2 stopped in the roadway. He stated he was in good health and was not on any medication, but had suffered a stroke approximately two years prior. He was familiar with both the vehicle and the roadway.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other motor vehicle stopped. The critical reason was coded to V1 as an environmental related factor: glare. The driver was also not wearing his required glasses.

The driver of V2 was a 31 year-old male. He had been stopped in traffic prior to the crash. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. A critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.