This crash occurred in the intersection of two similar roadways, both being three-lane, two-way, undivided asphalt roadways with posted speed limits of 72 kmph (45 mph). The crash occurred during the late afternoon hours while daylight, and there were no adverse conditions present at the time of the crash.

V1, a 2001 Ford Taurus sedan, was stopped facing southbound waiting for traffic to clear. V1 intended to continue straight through the intersection. V2, a 1996 Pontiac Sunfire convertible, was traveling westbound in the right curb lane, also intending to continue straight through the intersection. V1 proceeded to start into the intersection and came into contact with V2. V1's front bumper hit the right front side of V2. Both units were towed from the scene with moderate damage, and the lone occupant of V1 was transported to the hospital with minor injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, an 18 year-old male, stated that he came to a complete stop at the stop sign and waited for traffic to clear. He said that he then looked both ways and did not see any other vehicles so he tried to cross. He also stated that he did not see V1 until he made contact with her.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded for V1 was "This vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded for V1 was "Inadequate surveillance, looked but did not see." Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include a history of depression, bipolar disorder, and ADHD for which he takes prescription medication. A toxicology report in the medical records indicated that the driver tested positive for alcohol (BAC of .04), opiates, and cannabinoids. Driver inexperience was also coded as an associated factor.

The driver of V2, a 46 year-old female, stated that she saw V1 start to pull out and hit the brakes as hard as she could, but could not avoid the collision. The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path." V2 was not assigned a Critical Reason and no associated factors were coded for this driver.