This single-vehicle crash occurred on an interstate bypass highway. This roadway is divided and the north/west traffic lanes consist of three through lanes. This roadway curves right, is uphill, and has a posted speed limit of 105 kmph (65 mph). This crash occurred during nighttime hours and the roadway was not illuminated. Light snow was falling and the driver lost control on a bridge with patches of black ice. Traffic flow was light.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Ford Ranger with two occupants, was traveling northbound in lane three. Because of the presence of black ice on the roadway, V1 started to rotate counterclockwise and the driver tried to correct the situation by steering to the right. V1 started to rotate clockwise and the driver again tried to correct the direction by steering to the left. V1 then started to rotate counterclockwise as it departed the roadway on the left. The front of V1 impacted a W-beam guardrail as the vehicle continued to rotate counterclockwise. V1 skidded back across lane two and lane one before coming to final rest facing east on the paved shoulder on the right side of the roadway. V1 was moved prior to the researcher's arrival. V1 was towed from the scene. Neither occupant was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1, a sixteen-year-old female, was coming from picking up cheesecake orders and going to her home. She reported being well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route daily. She is in good health and takes no medications. She was listening to the radio at the time. She has had three months of driving experience and completed basic driver education in the last six months. She stated the windshield wipers were on interval. According to the driver's description of the crash, the driver was traveling at a speed of 105 kmph (65 mph) when she lost control due to the icy conditions. She steered right and then left but failed to regain control as the vehicle ran off the left side of the roadway.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling-off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: too fast for conditions (specified as: icy roads). Overcompensation and inexperienced driver were coded as associated factors.