The intersection-related crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a two-way, seven-lane roadway, divided by a curbed median. This was a straight, level, asphalt roadway, with a posted speed of 72 kmph (45 mph). Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 2002 Lexus SC430 convertible with one occupant, was preparing to enter the north/south roadway from a gas station driveway. V2, a 1996 Mitsubishi Eclipse with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane four. V1 made a right turn out of the driveway into the northbound lanes. V1 crossed over three travel lanes, into the path of V2. The front of V2 made contact with the left front of V1. The impact caused V2 to roll to the left. The left side of V2 made contact with the curbed median. V2 continued to roll onto its roof, sliding along the grass median, toward a tree. While on its roof, the right side of V2 made contact with a tree, redirecting the vehicle back onto the roadway. V2 came to final rest on its roof, in lane three. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

V1, the Lexus SC430, was driven by a 60-year old male who was not injured. He stated that he stopped to get some gas on his way home. He said that he glanced left as he pulled out of the station and the road was clear. He needed to get over quickly to the far side of the roadway in order to make the next available left turn to go home. The driver indicated that a speeding vehicle came from nowhere doing at least sixty miles per hour, hitting the driver and then flipping over several times.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the left side of travel lane." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related recognition error, looked but did not see. The driver gave a cursory glance to the left as he pulled out of the driveway. No additional associated factors were coded to this driver.

V2, the Mitsubishi Eclipse, was driven by a 19-year old male who refused treatment on-scene. He stated that he had just dropped off a friend at the mall. The driver got behind a metro bus that was driving slowly due to a flat tire, so he changed his route home. He said he was going ten to fifteen miles per hour over the speed limit as he approached the intersection. He could see the other vehicle entering the roadway from the gas station, but did not anticipate the other vehicle crossing three travel lanes into his path. The driver could recall rolling only two quarter-turns, onto his roof.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane (same direction) over right lane line." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. One associated factor for this driver was excessive speed. In addition, the normal driving pattern for this driver is to be in a hurry. Another associated factor was driver inexperience.