The crash occurred on a two-way, two-lane rural roadway with unpaved shoulders. The level, bituminous roadway had an un-posted speed limit of 89kph (55 mph). Conditions at the time of the weekday morning crash were daylight, clear and dry.

V1, a 2007 Ford Focus 5 door hatchback driven by a 75 year-old female, was southbound on the road in a right hand curve traveling 80 kph (50 mph). The driver was on her way from renewing her driver's license and returning home. The driver of v1 stated that v2 was suddenly in her lane and she had no time for avoidance actions. It was determined that V1 crossed the centerline in the curve and the left side of v1 struck the left side of an oncoming minivan (v2). V1 came to a controlled stop on the right shoulder and was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver refused treatment at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 2005 Ford Freestar minivan, was driven by a 29 year-old female on her way from home to the home of a friend, with her three children. V1 was traveling northbound on the road in the long left hand curve. The driver stated that v2 was suddenly in her lane and struck her on the left side. The driver of v1 lost control, left the pavement on the right side, steered left, overcompensated, and reentered the roadway on the right. V1 crossed the road in a counterclockwise yaw and left the roadway on the left. V1 traveled down a 93% slope. The front of the van struck the ground, rotated counterclockwise and the right back of v1 struck the embankment. V1 rotated counterclockwise to final rest at the embankment facing east. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver and three children (one month old male-row two right, 19 month old female, row three left, 3 year old female, row three right) in child safety seats were evaluated at the scene for injuries.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to v1 was 'this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the left side of travel lane'. The Critical Reason coded to this driver was a 'driver related performance error of poor directional control-failing to control vehicle with skills ordinarily expected'. An associated factors coded was for 'possible side effects to her prescribed medication for high blood pressure'.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to v2 was 'other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line'. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle.