Case #2007-108

The driveway access-related crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a two-way, six-lane roadway, which was divided by a concrete curbed median. There were three eastbound lanes, with a posted speed of 72 kmph (45 mph). This was a straight, level, and asphalt roadway. Conditions were dusk on a weekday evening with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.

V1, a 2001 Honda Accord with three occupants, was heading northbound, preparing to enter the east/west roadway from a parking lot driveway. V2, a 2001 Nissan Altima with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane one. Both vehicles were approaching the same intersection. V1 attempted to enter the roadway by making a right turn into lane one. The front of V2 made contact with the back of V1. V2 was towed due to damage.

V1, the 2001 Honda Accord, was driven by an 18-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he and his friends were just leaving the Foot Locker Outlet, right there in the parking lot. He said that he looked to his left and didn't see anyone, so he began to make a right turn. The driver indicated that after he completed his turn, the other driver hit him from behind. According to the motorist and occupants of V1, the other driver was traveling at a high rate of speed, and changed from the middle lane into the right lane after they had entered the roadway and completed their turn. The damage patterns and physical evidence at the scene did not support this claim.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, turning right at intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related recognition error, inadequate surveillance. One associated factor for this driver was inexperience. The motorist was driving on a learner's permit, and had been driving for only one year. A vehicle-related associated factor for this driver included a tire deficiency. Specifically, the left rear and right rear tires had tread depths of 2mm and 1mm, respectively. The right rear tire had air pressure of only 16psi.

V2, the Nissan Altima, was driven by a 31-year old male, who was transported to the hospital due to injury. He stated that he was heading from his house to play in a softball game. The driver said that he was traveling at or just under the speed limit, in the right curb lane. The motorist indicated that he did not take notice of the other vehicle until it pulled out in front of him, at which time he steered to the left and locked his brakes in an attempt to avoid V1.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment, from driveway, turning into same direction". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. One physical-related associated factor for this driver was vision impairment. The driver is near-sighted, but was not wearing his corrective lenses at the time of the crash. A vehicle-related associated factor for this motorist included a tire deficiency. Specifically, the left front and right front tires had a tread depth of only 2mm.