The crash occurred in the intersection of two residential undivided roadways. There was one lane in each direction with no lane markings. There was a stop sign in each direction of the north/south bound roadway. The roadways were straight, dry asphalt. East of the intersection there was a 4% slope downhill to the west from a crest of the road approximately 61m east of the intersection. South of the intersection the roadway had an 8% slope uphill to the north. The intersection itself was level. The posted speed limits for both roadways was 48kph (30mph). The crash occurred early on a weekday afternoon under clear skies with very light traffic flow.

V1, a 1994 Toyota Camry four door with two occupants, was traveling westbound. V2, a 2004 Toyota Tacoma pickup truck with one occupant was traveling northbound. After stopping at the stop sign, V2 started to cross the intersection and drove into the path of V1 which was unable to stop after braking with lockup. The front right corner of V2 struck the left front corner of V1 (Event 1) causing V1 to yaw to the right. V1 came to rest in the intersection facing northwest approximately two meters from the point of impact. V2 veered to the left and rotated in a counter-clockwise manner as it departed the roadway on the northwest corner. It struck a mailbox (Event 2) approximately 10 meters west of the first impact. It then veered back across the east/westbound lanes and came to rest facing south in a yard on the southwest corner of the intersection about 20 meters southwest of the first point of impact. Both vehicle were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Toyota Camry, was driven by a 52-year old male. Neither he nor his female passenger were injured. He advised that he had driven less than a mile form a nearby business on his way home and said he was traveling 32-48kph (20-30mph). He said he was going straight through the intersection and said he saw V2 run the stop sign and drive forward into his path. The driver said he applied his brakes in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid being struck by V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "other vehicle encroachment from crossing street across path". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle. There were no associated factors for this vehicle.

V2, the Toyota Tacoma, was driven by a 35-year old male who was not injured. The driver advised that he did stop at the north bound stop sign but was uncertain of how long. He said he glanced at a map trying to figure out how to get to a client's home. He was unfamiliar with the area. He said he looked and started across the intersection. He claimed that the crest in the road east of the intersection prevented him from seeing V1 approaching and said V1 was going very fast when they collided. The driver also said he did not see V1 and took no avoidance measures. He added that the impact pushed him into the mailbox and back across the street.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "this vehicle traveling passing through intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded driver related "inadequate surveillance", failed to look, looked but did not see. Associated factors were assigned to V2 for driver behavior, recognition - driver inattention (he was trying to find his way to a customer's home); for other non-driving activities (he admitted glancing at a map); inadequate surveillance, looked but did not see (he claimed he did not see V1 but said it was going very fast and hidden from view by the crest of the roadway); and for driver experience (he was unfamiliar with the area). The pictures show that the crest of the road did not block his view of V1 because that crest was 61 meters away.