This is is a two-vehicle front-to-side crash that occurred in the intersection of two, five-lane roadways. Each roadway has a center turn lane. This crash occurred in the number two, southbound lane of a five-lane roadway divided by double yellow lines and a center turn lane. The speed limit on the roadway where the crash occurred is posted 72 kmph (45 mph) for both roadways. The location is straight and level. This crash occurred during the morning, the roadway was constructed of dry asphalt and the weather was clear. There were operating on-color traffic signals where the crash occurred.

Vehicle one (V1), a modified 1993 Chevrolet Gladiator 20 conversion Van, with one occupant, was northbound in the number three, turn lane. The driver was making a left turn. Vehicle two (V2), a 1991 Toyota pickup with two occupants, was traveling south in the number two lane. V1 turned left, misjudged the speed and gap of V2, attempted to avoid by accelerating and was struck in the right side, rear section by the front of V2. V1 was not towed. V2 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 a ninety (90) year old male. The driver stated that he was traveling northbound and going to his home. He said he saw V2 approaching, misjudged the speed and gap and accelerated rapidly to avoid a crash. The attempt was not successful. The front of V1 struck the right rear of V1. V2 rotated clockwise and came to rest very near the point of impact. V1 continued forward, made a U-Turn, returned and stopped in the number one eastbound lane at the crosswalk. The driver said he traveled the road daily, was in good health and takes one prescribed medication daily, Liprozil. He said he was traveling about 24 kmph (15 mph) at impact.

The driver of V2, a thirty five (35) year old male, stated he was traveling southbound in the number two lane about 64 kmph (40 mph). He said he saw V1 approaching in the left turn lane on the opposite side of the intersection. The driver of V1 said he thought the other driver would stop and he didn't. The driver of V2 said hit the brakes, thinks he locked the brakes, and slid into the right rear of V1. V2 rotated slightly clockwise and came to a stop in the center of the intersection near the point of impact. V2 continued the turn, made a U-Turn and stopped facing east.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.