The crash occurred in the westbound lanes of an undivided three-lane roadway. There was one lane in each direction with a center two-way left turn only lane. The roadway was straight, level, dry, asphalt with a posted speed limit of 72kph (45 mph). The crash occurred during early afternoon on a clear, sunny weekday. There were no traffic control devices. Traffic flow was congested.

V1, a 2005 Honda Accord four door with one occupant was westbound in lane one traveling about the posted speed limit. V2, a 1993 Toyota ELX pickup truck with a camper and one occupant was stopped in the traffic lane ahead of V1. V3, a 1999 Chevy Cavalier four door with four occupants was stopped in the traffic lane ahead of V2. As V1 approached V2 the driver applied the brakes, with lockup, in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid contact. V1's front end struck the back end of V2 (Event 1), pushing it forward where its front end struck the rear of V3 (Event 2). V1 stopped at the first impact point still facing west. V2 came to rest about four meters west of the first impact point still facing west. V3 came to rest facing west about a meter west of the second impact point. Only V1 had to be towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Honda Accord, was driven by a 43-year old female who was not injured. The driver advised that she was on her way from the zoo to pick up her children at school. She claimed that the traffic ahead of her stopped for no reason. She said that when she saw V2 just before she struck it she applied her brakes and noticed that they did not feel right before her vehicle skidded and struck V2. The brakes felt spongy when they were checked.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was “other motor vehicle stopped in the traffic lane ahead”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded driver related “inadequate surveillance failed to look, looked but did not see”. Associated factors were assigned to V1 for, inattention (thought focus unknown) and for failure to look far enough ahead; for the vehicle's brake deficiency (based on the driver's statement and supported by the researcher's inspection); and for the highway congestion.

V2, the Toyota ELX, was driven by a 60-year old male who was not injured. The driver reported that he was returning home from a store and that he was stopped behind a line of traffic ahead of him. He advised that there were about 3.6m/12ft between his vehicle and V3. He said that before the first impact he glanced into his rear view mirror and saw V1 approaching and realized that it was not going to be able to stop before hitting his vehicle so he put his foot on the brakes. He added the first impact pushed him forward resulting in the second impact with V3

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was “other vehicle in traffic lane traveling in the same direction with a higher speed”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle. Associated factors were assigned to V2 for the highway congestion and for the vehicle's oversized tires.

V3, the Chevy Cavalier, was driven by a 28-year old male, who was not injured. Only the female passenger in the right front seat reported possible injury and was transported to a hospital. The driver said he, too, was stopped behind a line of traffic ahead of him. He was not aware that he was going to be struck and thus took no actions before V2 struck his vehicle.

The Critical Pre-crash Event and the Critical Reason for the Critical Event were not coded for V3 because it was not involved in the first harmful event. An associated factor was assigned for the highway congestion.