The crash occurred in lane 1, westbound, of a secondary arterial road that ran east/west, had six lanes (three each way), and was straight and level. There was a traffic light about 30meters west of the crash area that controlled 2 interstate off and on ramps in addition to the arterial. The speed limit was 64kph/40mph. Conditions at the time were daylight and dry at midday on a weekday.

V1 was a 2000 Ford Explorer traveling west in lane 1 of the arterial when it struck V2's (V2 was a 2004 Mitsubishi Outlander) rear with its (V1's) front pushing V2's front into the back of V3 (V3 is completely unknown) which then fled the scene. All vehicles came to rest in lane 1 within a meter or so of impact. V1 and 2 were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 39 year-old belted female who was listed on the police report as sustaining possible injuries and was transported to an area hospital. She said that she was in the right lane and had just left from the fast food place when she came up to a green ling. Instead of the women ahead of her going she stopped and she hit her. The drivers blood sugar was measured on scene by EMS workers with the researcher present the level was 49 as stated on the PAR.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “other vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped”. The Critical Reason was coded as an “other physical impairment of the ability to act”. The driver had also had a tooth extracted the day previous and had taken pain medication. She also rarely drove the arterial.

V2 was driven by a forty-six-year old belted female who was transported with non-incapacitating injuries to a local hospital for treatment. She stated that she was stopped behind a white Honda Accord at the red light when she got hit from behind. When she looked in her rearview mirror the driver of V1 was on the phone. The driver of V2 did not know if D1 was on the phone when she hit her but if she wasn't she sure got her phone out and dialed before she could even locate her phone after the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was “other vehicle in lane traveling the same direction with a higher speed”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No contributing factors were associated to this vehicle.

V3 was a hit and run vehicle and the vehicle was described by driver of V2 as a white car with a female driver. As all described this vehicles part in the crash, V3 was not at fault, it is unknown why they fled.