The crash occurred in the westbound lanes of a two-lane roadway. The road was curved to the right and there was a traffic light controlling the roadway. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekend morning. V1 was a 1995 Toyota Avalon that was traveling eastbound in lane one when the driver crossed over the lane line and drove into the westbound traffic hitting V2, a 1996 Chevy Tahoe, that was traveling westbound in lane one. Both Vehicles were towed due to damage. No one was injured.

V1 was driven by a 53-year-old male who was on his way home from the store with his friend's car. He stated that he was coming around the curve and thought the road turned into a one-way so he went straight into the oncoming traffic. He thought that the SUV was in the wrong lane and would yield to him. The driver was an illegal immigrant and was driving under a suspended license. He was cited for the crash for reckless driving and for driving without a valid license. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was this vehicle traveling over the left lane line. The critical reason was a driver error, false assumption of other's actions. An associative factor was that he was driving his friends car, although, he stated that he had used the car about 2-5 times and was familiar with driving it. He declined EMS but was clutching his chest on the scene.

V2 was driven by a 23-year-old female on her way back to work from maternity leave. She stated that she was traveling westbound in lane one when she stated that she saw the gold car come around the curve and steer wide like he was going to turn in front of her into a driveway. She stated that she kept going straight and he just came straight at her, at the last second she tried to steer to the left to avoid the collision, but was unable to do so. Her vehicle sustained moderate front-end damage and she sustained scrapes and bruises, but refused EMS on scene. V2 was towed due to damages.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from the opposite direction over the left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle, as D2 was not thought to have contributed to the crash. There were no associative factors related to this driver.