The crash occurred at a T-intersection of a four lane east/westbound roadway divided by a grass median with a two lane north/southbound undivided roadway. There were two lanes in each direction of the east/westbound roadway. Both roads were asphalt, straight and dry. The north/southbound road was level. East of the intersection the eastbound lanes had a 4% slope uphill. The intersection was level. There was a stop sign for northbound traffic. The posted speed limits were 72 kmph (45 mph) for east/westbound traffic and 56 kmph (35 mph) for north/southbound traffic. The crash occurred on a weekday evening while traffic was moderate under clear skies.

V1, a 1994 Buick Lesabre four door with one occupant was northbound as it approached the intersection while it was fleeing from the scene of a previous crash in which it had been involved less than a mile away. V2, a 1999 Subaru Legacy four door with one occupant was traveling eastbound in lane one. V1 did not stop at the stop sign prior to entering the intersection it is unknown as to which direction V1 intended to travel. V2 braked and steered left in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid impact. The front of V1 struck the right front of V2. V1 then rotated in a clockwise direction and came to rest facing east on the right side of the road approximately 18 meters east of impact. V2 yawed to the left across both eastbound lanes and came to rest facing northeast on the left shoulder approximately 14 meters northeast of impact. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Buick Lesabre, was driven by a 22-year old male who received non-incapacitating injuries and was transported to a hospital. The driver would not respond to numerous researcher attempts by phone or in person at his home to obtain an interview. Based on two PAR's obtained from the police, it was discovered that the driver had been involved in a previous crash four minutes earlier, less than a mile away. In that crash V1's front had struck the rear of a second vehicle pushing it into a third vehicle. The drivers and two witnesses at that scene provided police with a description of V1 and the driver along with a partial license plate. The descriptions matched those of V1 and its driver. It is unknown if V1 took any evasive actions at the scene of the previous crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “this vehicle traveling unknown travel direction”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was driver related “unknown performance error” due to there being no interview and no definite cause on PAR. Associated factors were assigned to V1 for driver physical, health due to the presence of various drugs based on driver's statements to police and to hospital staff and medical report (attached); for driver behavior, recognition, inadequate surveillance, failed to look to side; for driver behavior, decision, illegal maneuver - failed to obey traffic control device based on PAR and DV2 statement; and for driver behavior, other aggressive, fleeing the scene of a previous crash.

V2, the Subaru Legacy, was driven by a 57-year old female who was not injured. The driver reported that she was traveling from home taking her passenger to the hospital for an appointment and that she was traveling approximately 64 kmph (40 mph). She added that as she approached the intersection she did see V1 approaching from the crossing street to her right a couple of seconds before impact. She said that V1 did not slow down or stop at the stop sign and that although she braked and steered left she was not able to avoid being struck by V1.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was “other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, path not known”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle. An associated factor was assigned to V2 for driver, physical due to presence, because the driver was diabetic (without medications).