This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The east/west roadway was under construction with lanes closed marked by traffic cones and barrels. The westbound approach is straight and level and consists of a left turn lane and a right turn lane divided by closed lanes. These lanes are divided from the eastbound traffic by a curbed median. The lanes west of the intersection are straight and consist of one lane in the westbound direction and one through lane and a right turn lane in the eastbound direction. The eastbound lanes have a downhill grade. The speed limit on this roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). It was dark with streetlights on at the time of the crash with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Ford Expedition, was westbound in the left turn lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Cadillac DTS, was eastbound in lane two. V1 turned left in the intersection and the front struck the left side of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-one-year-old female, was on her way home from a friend's house. She was familiar with her vehicle but this was the first time she had driven this route. This driver had been fired from her job the previous week and she stated that she was depressed. She takes the medications Lyrica, Neurontin, Zoloft, Lunesta, Advair, Vitamins and fish oil. This driver stated that she had been drinking wine with her friend and that "it didn't go with my meds."

The driver of V2, a forty-four-year-old female, was traveling with four passengers, from a restaurant to her father's house. She was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle and passengers. This was the first time she had driven on this road. This driver stated that she did not see V1 until they were in the intersection.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: type of driver error unknown. This driver's combination of drug and alcohol use was an associated factor in this case.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was not coded to this vehicle. This driver's inadequate surveillance was an associated factor in this crash.