This two-vehicle crash occurred in a three-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. On the south side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a curbed median and northbound traffic consists of three through lanes and one right turn lane. One the north side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a curbed median and southbound traffic consists of three through lanes and two left turn lanes. This roadway is straight, uphill in the northbound direction and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with lunchtime traffic congestion.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Jeep Cherokee with two occupants, was northbound in lane four approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Chevrolet Blazer with only the driver present, was stopped in lane four preparing to turn left at the intersection. V1 entered the intersection, as V2 was turning left on its green arrow. The front of V1 struck the front of V2. After impact V1 rotated clockwise before proceeding northbound until coming to rest north of the intersection in lane one facing north. V2 rotated counterclockwise after impact and proceeded southeast and came to rest in the southeast corner on the intersection, facing southeast. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. No one was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a seventeen-year-old male, was driving from having lunch and on his way home when the crash occurred. He was well rested, drives this route daily and is very comfortable with this vehicle. He also reported being in good health and takes no medications. He has been driving for 12 months. He did not see V2 until a split second before impact and attempted no evasive maneuvers.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: tother vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle. Inadequate surveillance was a factor for this driver. The driver failed to look far enough ahead. This driver ran the red light at the intersection.

The driver of V2, a twenty-six-year-old male, was on his way to work from the bank when the crash occurred. He was well rested, drives this route daily and is very comfortable with this vehicle. He reported being in good health and takes no medications.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions. The driver assumed that V1 would yield the right of way to his vehicle and turned into the path of V1's travel.