The crash occurred in the westbound lanes and median on a primary arterial road that ran east/west. The road was straight with a slight positive precrash grade of +2.4%. There were two westbound lanes that were divided from the eastbound lanes by a grassy median that was not raised but did have several small trees down its center. Conditions at the time of the crash were predawn dark, and unlit with rain and wet roads. The speed limit was 72kph/45mph. The crash occurred in the early morning on a weekday.

V1 was a 1993 Infiniti G-20 four door sedan traveling west on the arterial in lane one when it hydroplaned and began to rotate clockwise. The driver began steering left and braking. The vehicle then caught traction and traveled across westbound lane two and departed the left side of the road onto the grass median where it struck and broke a sapling tree with its first impact to the front of V1. V1 then continued west on the median where it struck a second, larger tree with its front end close to the right side, causing V1 to rotate in a clockwise direction while still traveling west and coming to rest at but not striking a third tree. V1 came to rest facing north. V1 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

V1 was driven by a belted thirty-three year old male whose airbags did deploy in the crash and who was transported to a local hospital with non-incapacitating injuries at the time of the crash. During the initial interview attempt at the hospital the driver was not able to maintain consciousness for more than a few initial questions. The driver was charged by police with DUI.

The critical precrash event for V1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason was coded as too fast for conditions (being rain and wet roads). V1's left rear tire had 1mm of measured tread which was thought to have contributed to V1 losing traction. Two other tires only had 3mm of measured tread. The driver was coded as being fatigued due to lack of regular restful sleep. He was also awakened unexpectedly to give a friend a ride to work that day which he (D1) said made him irritable. Although the driver would not disclose which drugs he had taken in the last twenty-four hours they were sourced through medical history and they are also believed to be contributing factors.