This two-vehicle crash occurred during the evening hours of a weekend. The crash occurred on an undivided 4-lane urban roadway. The north and southbound roadway consisted of two travel lanes in each direction. The roadway was an S-curve with a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The surface type for the roadway was that of bituminous asphalt. The roadway was flat, dry, and had a positive grade in the northbound direction. There were no indications of any physical damage. Weather conditions were dark and clear and streetlights were present to illuminate the roadway. It should be noted that wind gusts were very strong throughout the night.

Vehicle one, a 2003 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, was traveling northbound in lane one of the roadway. The strong winds caused a nearby tree to fall westward on top of V1's vehicle. The tree ended up in the middle of the roadway after its contact with V1. V2, a 1995 Nissan Maxima 4-door sedan that was also traveling northbound, struck the downed tree with its front. V2 had full deployment of both frontal airbags, but sustained minor damages. V2 had to be towed from the scene. V1 also sustained minor damages but was able to be driven away from the scene. Both drivers were uninjured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a 33 year-old male in generally good health, reported he was coming from downtown on his way home when the crash occurred. He reported driving along the roadway when he heard a loud "bang." He initially thought children were throwing rocks at his car, but after looking into his rearview mirror, he could see a tree in the roadway and another vehicle (V2) crashing into it. At this point, the driver pulled over and waited for assistance to arrive. The driver was approximately halfway into his trip and had already driven about 8 miles when the crash occurred. The driver has high cholesterol and takes a prescribed medication. The driver reported traveling on this roadway on a weekly basis. The driver admitted to listening to the radio at the time of the incident, but was adamant that this did not take away from his attention to the roadway.

The driver of V2, a 31 year-old male, was not interviewed. No additional information was obtained from the driver of V1.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was coded "object approaching roadway." The Critical Reason was coded as an environmental related factor, wind gust. Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include the use of prescription medication to control high cholesterol and the high winds at the time of the crash.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was coded other, not involved in first harmful event. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to the driver of V2 include a traffic flow interruption caused by the downed tree and the high winds at the time of the crash.