This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. Both roadways are divided by a curbed median. The eastbound approach lanes curve to the left, have a four percent uphill grade and consist of two through lanes, a right turn lane and a left turn lane. The southbound approach lanes curve to the right, have an uphill grade and consist of one through lane and a left turn lane. The speed limit on these roadways is 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Ford Excursion, was eastbound in the right through lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Freightliner Sprinter ambulance, was stopped southbound in the left turn lane. V2 entered the intersection, turning left, and the left side was struck by the front of V1. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-four-year-old male, was on his way home from work. He was well rested, healthy and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that he did not see the ambulance (V2) until he was already in the intersection and that he applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The driver of V2, a twenty-three-year-old male, was healthy, well rested and familiar with his route. He had two years of experience driving an ambulance. This driver had just left a hospital and received an emergency call. He activated his siren and emergency lights and then changed the tone of the siren at the intersection. This driver stated that it looked like V1 was slowing down and would stop prior to the intersection.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was not coded to this vehicle. This driver's failure to look to the side ahead as he approached the intersection was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions.