This single-vehicle crash occurred in the afternoon of a weekend on a 2-lane divided highway. The roadway is a north/south divided highway with two lanes for each direction and a grass median separating the two roads. The bituminous roadway is dry, straight, and level with a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). The traffic level was low this weekend and the weather conditions were clear and sunny at the time of the crash.

V1, a 2005 Ford F-150 4 x 4 pickup with two occupants, was towing an eight-foot trailer loaded with dirt. V1 was northbound in lane two when the trailer began to swing back and forth, which caused this driver to lose control of the truck and skid into the grass median where it rolled one-quarter turn onto its right side. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1.

The driver is a 34-year-old male that was working a "side job" for his boss this weekend when he was involved in this crash. He said he had loaded a trailer full of dirt and had to deliver it to a site where he usually dumps the dirt. He said he was traveling north in lane two at about 55 mph when he drove over a small bump in the road and his trailer began to "shimmy and sway." He said he lightly tapped the brake pedal in an effort to stop the swinging, but it only made things worse. He reported that the trailer began to swing out of control, which caused him to lose control of the truck and skidded into the grass median where the truck rolled onto its right side. The company truck was purchased two days before the crash and this was only the third time he ever drove it. He reported that he had hauled cargo on that trailer "hundreds of times" before without incident and believes he probably loaded too much weight behind the trailer's wheels this afternoon. Neither he nor his passenger was injured in the crash but the truck was towed from the scene.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for this driver was coded this vehicle control loss due to jackknife event. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded an other vehicle related factor, "cargo improperly loaded on trailer." Associated factors coded to this driver include unfamiliarity with the truck (this was only the third time he had driven it) and being uncomfortable with vehicle/load because he never towed anything with this truck before.