This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged intersection. The southbound roadway is one-way, straight, level and consists of three through lanes. The speed limit for this roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). The east/west roadway is undivided, straight, level, consists of one lane in each direction and is controlled by stop signs at the intersection. The speed limit for this roadway is 40 kmph (25 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Ford F150 pickup, was southbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 Chevrolet Lumina, was westbound in lane one, stopped at the intersection. V2 entered the intersection and the right side was struck by the front of V1. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a fifty-one-year-old male, was on his way from one of his rental properties to a lumberyard. He was well rested, in good health and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route weekly. He has high cholesterol and acid reflux and takes the medications Lipitor and Nexium. This driver stated that he saw V2 stopped at the intersection. He steered to the right and applied the brakes (skidding longitudinally) when V2 entered the intersection.

The driver of V2, a sixteen-year-old female, was traveling from a friend's house to another friend's house. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route weekly. This driver has one year of driving experience. She has seasonal allergies and takes the medication Benadryl. This driver stated that she looked to the right and left before entering the intersection and did not see V1 until the last second.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's assumption that V2 would yield the right-of-way was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)." This driver's inexperience was an associated factor in this crash.