The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways with on color traffic signals. One was a five-lane, two-way roadway with two eastbound lanes and two westbound lanes and a left-turn lane divided by a grass median. This roadway was a straight, level, bituminous, roadway with a posted speed 56 kmph (35 mph). The other roadway was a two-lane, two-way with one northbound lane and one southbound lane. This was a straight, level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). It was afternoon on a weekday and the roads were dry and the sky was clear. Traffic was flowing.

V1, a 1992 GMC Sierra pick-up with one occupant was traveling northbound in lane one. V1 was approaching the intersection intending to turn left. V2, a 1991 Buick Park Avenue four-door with one occupant was traveling eastbound in lane two. V2 was approaching the intersection intending to go straight. The driver of V1 stated that he was in the intersection waiting to turn left. The driver of V2 stated that some cars ahead of him started to slow down and then speed up. He noticed he was in the intersection before he realized if he had a green light. The front of V2 contacted the left of V1. V1 then rolled right one-quarter turn before coming to final rest on its right side facing northwest. V2 departed the roadway on the north side and came to final rest also facing northeast. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the GMC pick-up, was driven by a 53-year old male. He reported injuries and was transported to a local trauma facility. He stated that he had just left his house and was on his way to work. He stated that he had been stopped at the intersection for an unknown length of time before proceeding to turn. He stated that he saw V2 heading for him and attempted to steer left to avoid him but he was unsuccessful.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V1 was: "This vehicle traveling turning left at intersection”. The Critical Reason was code “Inadequate surveillance”.

V2, the Buick Park Avenue was driven by a 33-year old male. He reported injuries and went per own vehicle to a local trauma facility. He stated that he was coming from downtown and was on his way home. He stated that he had been traveling between 50-64 kmph (31-40 mph) when he attempted braking but could not avoid contacting V1.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V2 was: "other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to this driver was that he was upset due to a family problem that had just occurred.