This two-vehicle crash occurred during the late evening hours of a weekday. The crash took place on an urban undivided four-lane roadway with two eastbound lanes and two westbound lanes. The posted speed limit was 48 kmph (30 mph). The surface type for the roadway was that of bituminous asphalt. The roadway was flat, dry, and level, without any indications of physical damage. Weather conditions were dark and clear and streetlights were present to illuminate the roadway.

V2, a 2005 Kia Spectra 4-door sedan, was travelling eastbound in lane one of the roadway when it was struck on its left rear by V1, a hit-and-run vehicle. After being struck, V2 spun counter-clockwise, 180 degrees. V2 rotated onto the opposite direction of the roadway and came to final rest in lane two of westbound travel. V2 suffered moderate damage (flat tire and suspension damage) and was subsequently towed from the crash scene. V1 drove off and could not be identified. The driver of V2 complained of minor back pain but refused medical treatment. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

The driver of V2, a 27 year-old female in generally good health, stated she was en route to her cousin's house from a nearby bar when the accident occurred. The driver reported travelling eastbound in lane one "minding her own business" when, all of a sudden, she was struck and her vehicle began to rotate. The driver stated, "Everything happened so fast, I couldn't do anything.: The driver could not identify the other vehicle. The driver was adamant about only having one drink at the bar, and that her judgment was not impaired one bit. The driver did admit to listening to music at the time of the collision. Although not reported on the police report, the researcher noted that the driver's speech was slightly slurred and, prior to crying, the eyes of the driver were slightly glassy. The driver and vehicle were both registered and licensed in another state. The driver reported having traveled this particular roadway rather infrequently (several times a month). The driver was also restrained at the time of the crash.

The driver of V1 fled the scene and was never discovered. No other information was obtained.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on right side of travel lane. The Critical Reason was coded as an unknown reason due to the driver fleeing the scene as a hit-and-run. There were no associated factors coded the driver of V1.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane (same direction) - over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded for this driver. No associated factors were coded to the driver of V2.