Case #2007-131

The crash occurred at the intersection of two roadways. The east/west roadway was a two-way, seven-lane street, divided by a curbed median. The posted speed for east/west traffic was 64 kmph (40 mph). The north/south roadway was a two-way, two-lane, undivided street, with a posted speed of 40 kmph (25 mph). Traffic in all directions was controlled by a stoplight. These were straight, level, asphalt roads. Conditions were daylight on a weekday morning with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.

V1, a 1991 Toyota Camry with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane three. V2, a 2002 Jeep Cherokee with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane one. Both vehicles were approaching the same intersection. As the two vehicles entered the intersection, the front of V1 made contact with the left side of V2. V1 was towed due to damage.

The Toyota Camry was driven by a 78-year old female, who was transported due to injury. She said that she was on her way to Home Depot from her house. She wasn't sure which lane she was in, but was fairly certain that she had a green light. She stated that she really didn't know what happened. She didn't see the other car at all, and couldn't say which direction the other vehicle came from.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related recognition error, inadequate surveillance. The driver never looked in the required direction. Physical-related factors for the driver included pre-existing health conditions. The driver suffered from a thyroid condition, high cholesterol, and osteoporosis. The driver takes medication for all three conditions. An additional associated factor for the driver was a recognition-related illegal maneuver. The motorist failed to stop for the traffic control device.

The Jeep Cherokee was driven by a 51-year old female, who was not injured. She stated that she was on her way to the bank from work. She was traveling at or below the speed limit. She said that as she entered the intersection on a green light, she did not take notice of traffic coming from the east, and never saw the other vehicle coming, until she was already in the intersection. The impact spun her vehicle around one hundred eighty degrees.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associated factors coded to the driver of the Cherokee.