This single-vehicle crash occurred in the early evening of a weekday off the left side of a rural roadway. The east/west roadway consisted of one lane in each direction with a posted speed limit of 80 kmph (50 mph). The bituminous roadway was dry and straight with an uphill grade >2% (in the eastbound direction). It was overcast at the time of the crash, but the traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 1996 GMC Sonoma pickup truck solely occupied by a 36-year-old female driver, was eastbound in lane 1. V1 drifted onto the north shoulder, the driver steered to the left, and the vehicle crossed the centerline, went into a counterclockwise yaw and exited the roadway to the left. V1 then struck a tree (>10cm) with its front right, continued forward and struck another tree (>10cm) with its right side before finally striking another tree (>10cm) with its left side and coming to final rest. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver stated that she had only had about 7 hours of sleep in the last 7 days and she recently been in an argument within the last 7 hours. She had only driven the car a few times since it was acquired 3 days earlier and she was currently taking multiple medications for pain and mental disorders. She said she fell asleep while traveling eastbound and woke up when her right front wheel went off the road onto the right shoulder. She steered left to stay on the road but ended up going off the road to the left. She was not late and was just going home after spending the night at her brother's house. She also stated that she had a lot on her mind as her father had just recently passed away.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a driver related factor, overcompensation. Associated factors include the driver's inexperience with the vehicle, her pre-existing physical/mental health conditions (and the use of multiple medications for them) as well as the personal and family concerns and stresses she was under at the time of the crash.