This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. On the north side of the intersection, the roadway is undivided and the southbound traffic lanes consist of a left turn lane and two through lanes. On the west side of the intersection, the roadway is undivided and the eastbound traffic lanes consist of a right turn or through lane and a left turn lane. These roadways are straight and level, and have a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with moderate traffic flow.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1991 Honda Accord EX with one occupant, was southbound in lane one, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two, (V2) a Ford E-450 tour bus with nine occupants, was stopped in lane one at the light facing east. The traffic signal indicated a green light for eastbound traffic and V2 proceeded into the intersection. V1 entered the intersection at the same time. The driver of V1 steered left while in the intersection to avoid V2 and entered lane two. The driver of V2 steered to the right to avoid the crash, but the front of V1 impacted the left side of V2. V2 continued to the right before coming to a stop facing southeast in lane one. V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to final rest facing southwest in lane two. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. No one was injured or transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, an eighteen-year-old female, was driving from her school and cruising around looking for someone to have lunch with. Her "brother" was immediately on-scene and was reported to be walking on the sidewalk adjacent to the lane of V1's approach. The pedestrian distracted the driver; she turned her head to look at him to see if it was someone that she knew. The driver also had a drink in her right hand. She reported being well rested, is in good health, and very familiar with her vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment: from crossing street, across path. The critical reason was not assigned to this driver even though she entered the intersection on a red light and had an exterior distraction.

The driver of V2, a twenty-seven-year-old female, was driving a tour bus on a regular route in the small town where the crash occurred. She has to give the tour information via a microphone situated in front of her while she is driving. She was well rested, takes Lexapro on a regular basis, and said she felt very comfortable driving the tour bus with eight occupants. She had stopped for the red light for more than ten seconds. She was addressing the tourists at the time. When the light turned green, she failed to look to the left and detect V1 approaching.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling: crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V2 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).