This three-vehicle crash occurred on an undivided, straight, level roadway. This roadway consists of one lane in each direction and has wide dirt shoulders on both sides. The speed limit on this roadway is 80 kmph (50 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1990 Nissan pickup, was stopped facing northbound on the east shoulder. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Dodge Neon, was southbound in lane one. Vehicle three (V3), a 1998 Dodge Neon, was parked (unoccupied) facing southbound on the west shoulder. V1 entered the roadway, making a U-turn and the right side was struck by the front of V2. V2 then rotated counterclockwise and the right side struck the left side of V3. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-three-year-old male, was traveling with a forty-year-old female passenger. According to the police report, he stated that he waited for all traffic to pass before making a U-turn. This driver was not interviewed; no further information is available for this driver. Per the witness (the former driver of V3), the driver of V1 had been focused on him prior to the crash.

The driver of V2, a nineteen-year-old female, was not interviewed; no information is available for this driver. According to the evidence at the scene, this driver applied the brakes, skidding longitudinally, prior to the crash.

The driver of V3 was standing behind his vehicle and witnessed the crash. He stated that the driver of V1 was looking at him as he entered the roadway.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other - making a U-turn. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see). This driver's focus on the witness was an associated factor in this crash, an exterior distraction.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was not coded to this vehicle.