This two-vehicle collision occurred mid-afternoon at a four-leg intersection. The north/south roadway has five lanes with a left turn pocket. The east/west roadway has seven lanes with left turn pockets. Both roadways are dry, level and made of asphalt. Both roadways are designated 56 kmph (35 mph). The north/south roadway is undivided. The east/west roadway is divided by a curbed median. The intersection is controlled by a on-color signal, which was functioning properly at the time.

Vehicle one (V1) is a 2002 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan driven by a thirty four (34) year old female with one passenger. V1 was traveling north in the number three left-turn lane. Vehicle two (V2) is a 1999 Ford Taurus 4-door sedan driven by a thirty six (36) year old male. V2 was traveling south in the number one lane. The driver of V2 was talking on the cell phone as the traffic signal turned red and as V1 was in the process of making a left turn its right plane was impacted by V2's front plane. V1 rotated clockwise and was pushed in a southwesterly direction. V1 came to rest facing northwest in the intersection. V2 came to rest facing south in the intersection. V1 was towed with moderate damage. V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was unable to be interviewed.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: type of driver error unknown. This driver turned into the path of V2 which was going straight. Most likely the driver had a false assumption the driver of V2 would not enter the intersection while the light was turning red, but it could not be fully determined if what made the situation critical was a decision or recognition factor.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling crossing over passing through intersection. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. This driver did have the internal distraction of holding the cell phone and inattention from talking on the cell phone. He was having an argument with his ex-wife while on the phone. This driver has Sleep Apnea.