This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The eastbound approach is one-way, level, curved to the left and consists of three through lanes. The north/south roadway is undivided, straight and level. The northbound approach consists of one lane. The speed limit for these roadways is 48 kmph (30 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Ford Mustang, was eastbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Buick Park Avenue, was northbound in lane one. In the intersection, the front of V2 struck the right side of V1. V2 continued to the northeast, off the road and the front struck a traffic signal pole and the right side struck a pole. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a seventeen-year-old female, was traveling with a sixteen-year-old male passenger. They had been sightseeing and were on their way home. This driver was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. She had two years of driving experience and this was her first time on this roadway. This driver stated that she was watching the bus behind her using the rearview mirror and accelerating to avoid it. She further stated that she did not see V2 until just before the crash.

The driver of V2, a forty-year-old female, was traveling with a forty-three-year-old male and a twenty-four-year-old female. They were on their way home from a store. This driver was well rested, in fair health and comfortable with her passengers. She has allergies and takes the medications Advair, Albuterol, Prednisone, Periactin, Zantac and Zyrtec. She drives this vehicle occasionally and drives this route several times each month. This driver stated that she was talking to her passengers and alternately looking at her right front passenger and the roadway. She further stated that she did not see V1 until right before the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; external distraction." This driver's inadequate surveillance was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's internal distraction and inadequate surveillance were associated factors in this crash.