The crash occurred in the northbound lane of a two-lane north/southbound roadway. The roadway was bituminous with a 5% downhill grade and a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). It was night on a weekday. The road was dry. Traffic flow was light

A quarter mile previous to the crash V1, a 2005 Cadillac CTS with two occupants, and V2, a 2003 Mitsubishi Eclipse Spyder Convertible, were traveling side-by-side in the northbound lanes of a three-lane roadway when the two northbound lanes merged to a single northbound lane. As the lanes merged V1 crossed the double yellow into on coming traffic and V2 took position in the northbound travel lane. The two vehicles continued northbound for approximately a quarter mile until they rounded a curve. At this point an unknown vehicle was traveling southbound, V1 attempted to re-enter the northbound lane bumping V2, causing V2 to spin clockwise. V2 then impacted a mailbox and tree on the driver's door before coming to rest. No avoidance maneuvers were attempted. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 17-year-old male who reported no injuries and occupied by a 17-year-old female that reported a complaint of pain. The female occupant was transported to the hospital. The driver stated that he was taking his girlfriend home and as the two northbound lanes merged, V2 would not allow him to enter the single northbound lane. He then entered the southbound lane and continued to try to pass V2. As they rounded the corner he saw another vehicle in his lane traveling south. He then attempted to re-enter the northbound travel lane and bumped V2. V1 continued to a nearby parking lot and pulled over.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "This Vehicle Traveling-Over the lane line on the right side of the travel lane". The Critical reason for the Critical Event was "Driver Related Factor-Aggressive driving behavior"; the driver was speeding and attempting to pass another vehicle over a double yellow centerline. The following associated factors were assigned, "Recognition Factor-Conversing with passenger", "Illegal Maneuver-Crossed full barrier lines while passing" and "Driver related experience factor-Inexperienced driver".

V2 was driven by a 22-year-old female and occupied by a 22-year-old male. Both occupants were transported to the hospital for treatment. No statement was obtained from Driver of V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "Other Motor Vehicle Encroachment-From adjacent lane (same direction)-over left lane line". A Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The driver was speeding and not allowing the other vehicle to merge into the northbound lane of travel. The following associated factors were assigned, “Aggressive driving, Racing, and fighting for lane position during merge” "Alcohol/Drugs" and "alcohol involvement"; the driver was driving while impaired and had a reported BAC of 0.12, which is 0.04 over the legal limit.