This two-vehicle crash occurred at a driveway on a straight roadway that is divided by a center left turn lane and consists of two lanes in each direction. The eastbound lanes have a four percent downhill grade. The speed limit for this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). The driveway is on the south side of the east/west roadway. It was dark with streetlights on at the time of the crash with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Hyundai Elantra, was stopped northbound in the driveway, intending to turn right (east) on the roadway. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Acura 3.2TL, was eastbound in lane one. A non-contact vehicle (NCV) was parked next to the roadway west of the driveway. V1 entered the roadway and the back was struck by the front of V2. V1 continued eastbound, traveled off the right side of the road and the front struck a pole. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-one-year-old male, was on his way home from a friend's apartment. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that he could not see around the NCV and entered the roadway slowly. He did not see V2 prior to the crash.

The driver of V2, a fifty-year-old female, was on her way home from a friend's house. She was well rested, healthy and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she was stressed by adversarial work relationships and was thinking about family and employment concerns prior to the crash. She further stated that she did not see V1 prior to the crash. .

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other; leaving driveway, turning right. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as an environment related factor: view obstructed by other vehicles.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from driveway, turning into same direction. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle. This driver's inadequate surveillance and focus on her personal issues were associated factors in this crash.