This two-vehicle crash occurred in a three-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The east/west roadway is straight, level and consists of two lanes in each direction with a center left turn lane. The speed limit for this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). The intersecting roadway is on the north side of the east/west roadway. It was dusk at the time of the crash with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Mazda 626, was eastbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 2007 Lincoln MKX, was westbound in lane two. V1 turned left in the intersection and the front struck the front of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-four-year-old female, was on her way home from work. She was well rested, healthy and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that her traffic signal arrow was green as she approached the intersection but she did not know what color it was when she reached the intersection. This driver stated that she did not see V2 prior to the crash.

The driver of V2, a forty-nine-year-old female, was on her way to her mother's house from work. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she saw V1 and applied the brakes and steered to the right when she realized that it was turning in front of her.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see). The driver stated that she never saw V2 prior to making the left turn.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event for V2 was not coded to this vehicle. This driver assuming that V1 would yield the right-of-way was an associated factor in this crash.