The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a four-lane roadway. There were two eastbound lanes and two westbound lanes. This was a straight, bituminous roadway with a downhill grade and a posted speed of 64 kmph (40 mph). It was evening on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic was flowing.

V1, a 1998 Chevrolet Malibu four door with five occupants was traveling eastbound in lane one. V2, 1994 Ford Taurus SHO four door with one occupant was traveling eastbound in lane two. The driver of V1 was looking for a hall and noticed that she had passed it. She attempted to change lanes to the left so that she could turn around in a driveway. She did not see V2 in the lane next to her. The driver of V2 stated that he had been driving next to V1 and did not think that V1 would change lanes. Neither car attempted to make an avoidance action. The left of V1 contacted the right of V2 before they both came to final rest in the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Chevrolet Malibu was driven by an 18-year old female who reported no injuries and refused treatment. She stated that she and the occupants were coming from the gas station and were on their way to the hall. She stated that she had been traveling between 50-64 kmph (31-40 mph) prior to contacting V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V1 was: "this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the left side of travel lane". The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a driver related factor: "external distraction". An associated factor coded to this driver was inadequate surveillance, failed to look to rear (mirrors).

V2, the Ford Taurus was a 47-year old male who reported no injuries and refused treatment. He stated that he had left home and was on his way to his friend's house. He stated that he had been traveling between 67-80 kmph (41-50 mph) prior to impact.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V2 was: "other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane (same direction) over right lane line". The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to this driver was insufficient braking inputs.