This three-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, flashing traffic signal-controlled intersection. The north/south trafficway is straight and divided by a curbed median. The northbound approach has a downhill grade and consists of three through lanes, a left turn lane and a right turn lane. The speed limit for this trafficway is 72 kmph (45 mph). The trafficway on the east side of the north/south trafficway is straight and divided by a curbed median. The westbound approach has a downhill grade and consists of two left turn lanes and a right turn lane. The speed limit for this trafficway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions. Traffic was congested at the time of the crash. The signal is normally a trilight. Due to utility work at this intersection, the signal was flashing red for westbound traffic and flashing yellow for north/south traffic.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Mitsubishi Galant, was stopped westbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Mercury Mountaineer, was northbound in lane three and vehicle three (V3), a 1995 Chevrolet Beretta, was northbound in lane four. V1 entered the intersection turning left. The left side of V1 was struck by the front of V2 and the front of V1 struck the right side of V3. V1 rotated counterclockwise and the right side struck the right side of V3. V3 continued northbound and the left front tire/wheel struck the median curb and the front struck a signpost. V1 and V3 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-year-old female, was on her way home from school. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she thought that the utility workers were signaling to her that her intended path was clear. She further stated that she did not look to the side before or during her turn.

The driver of V2, a forty-eight-year-old male, was on his way back to work from lunch. He was well rested, healthy and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. He has diabetes and takes the medication Metformin. This driver stated that he did not see V1 until it entered the intersection. He applied the brakes (ABS) in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The driver of V3, a twenty-three-year-old female, was traveling with a twenty-four-year-old male passenger, from a friend's house to another friend's house. This driver was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. She travels this route weekly. This driver stated that she did not see V1 until it entered the intersection. She applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's inadequate surveillance was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded as "not involved first harmful event." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's inadequate surveillance was an associated factor in this crash.