This two-vehicle crash occurred in the intersection of two bituminous, undivided 2-lane, straight, level, roadways. The north-south roadway was controlled in both directions at the intersection by stop signs. The east-west roadway had no controls. At the time of the weekend, early evening crash it was clear, dry and still daylight. The posted speed limit for the east-west roadway was 56kmph (35mph).

V1, a 2000 Ford Escort coupe solely occupied by a 16-year-old female driver, was southbound in lane 1 of the roadway stopped at the intersection described above. V2, a 2006 Chevrolet Trailblazer utility vehicle solely occupied by a 24-year-old female, was westbound in lane 1 of the roadway approaching the intersection described above intending to pass straight through it. V1 failed to see V2 and proceeded straight across the intersection. The front of V2 impacted the left front of V1. V1 rotated clockwise and came to rest off the road on the northwest corner of the intersection facing northwest. V2 came to rest west of the intersection on the right shoulder facing west. The driver of V1 was injured and transported. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 stated that she had just left her father's house and was going to her boyfriend's. She said that she had driven through the intersection a number of times recently but stated that she had only gotten her driver's license 3 days prior to the crash. She said that she might have stopped short of the "stop line" where she would have had a clear view of oncoming cross traffic. She also said that she proceeded forward after stopping for 3-5 seconds and looked both ways but never saw V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was the driver related factor of inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). Some contributing factors on the part of the driver of V1 include the driver's inexperience, her unfamiliarity with the intersection when driving alone and her obstructed view of crossing traffic due to her stopping in the wrong spot for the stop sign.

The driver of V2 stated that she was westbound at about 35-40 mph when V1 pulled across the intersection in front of her. She never saw her at the stop sign and had no chance to take any avoidance actions.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment from crossing street across path." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. Some contributing factors on the part of the driver of V2 include her sightline restriction by some bushes that prevented her from seeing V1 who stopped short of the intersection and work stress from having to work extended shifts.