Case 2007-112

The crash occurred on a two-lane north/southbound undivided roadway with one lane in each direction. The asphalt roadway was straight and dry with a -4% slope for northbound traffic. There were no traffic control devices and the posted speed limit was 48kph/30mph. The crash happened on a weekday morning under sunny clear skies with light traffic flow. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

V1, a 1995 Chevy Camaro two door with one occupant was northbound in lane one. V1 traveled over the left lane line and then off the left side of the road where its front right struck and sheared a 20cm utility pole. V1 came to rest still in contact with the base of the pole facing northwest.

V1, the Chevy Camaro, was driven by a 41-year old male who was coded for possible injuries and transported to a hospital. The driver later reported that he was traveling from home to a job interview at an unknown speed. The driver advised that he blacked out, possibly due to a seizure and he did not recall striking the pole. He took no evasive action prior to impact. The driver told the researcher that he had no previous history of seizures and that he was not taking any medications that may have caused him to black out. At the scene the researcher observed the driver who appeared glassy eyed and dazed and argumentative. The researcher's previous experience indicated that the driver's actions were possibly due to the influence of unknown narcotics, but they were also similar to a diabetic or epileptic seizure. There was no evidence of alcohol consumption. The driver's blood test results were not yet available from the hospital. The driver was taken to the hospital twice that day and according to medical reports he had a preexisting health condition of high blood pressure, had recently quit drinking alcohol (clinical impression - alcohol withdrawal), and was in fact taking hydrocodone and lisinopril.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded driver related other physical impairment of the ability to act (due to a seizure and based on the driver's statement). This vehicle was assigned associated factors for driver physical condition due to a bad back, high blood pressure, and possible alcohol withdrawal, the possible seizure, because of statements on the PAR and to the researcher, and researcher's observations of the driver at the scene; and for driver performance, emotional, due to his being upset about not having a job.