This crash occurred in lane 1 of 2 northbound lanes of a straight, four-lane, two-way, bituminous roadway in a T-intersection controlled by traffic signals. At the time of the weekday, morning crash it was daylight, cloudy and the roadway was wet. It was still rush hour so traffic was restricted. The posted speed limit was 48 kmph (30 mph).

V1, a 2005 Ford Focus occupied by a 31-year-old male driver and a 30-year-old female passenger, were stopped lane 2 of the southbound roadway waiting to turn left at the intersection. V2, a 1997 Subaru Legacy station wagon occupied solely by a 29-year-old male driver, was northbound in lane one approaching the intersection. The northbound traffic was backed up in lane 2 through the intersection so even though the light was green for north/south traffic, V1 could not turn left. A gap developed in the traffic flow when the driver of a non-contact vehicle in that lane waived V1 on. As V1 proceeded forward it was struck on the right side by the front of V2. The force of the impact caused V1 to rotate counter-clockwise and the two vehicles to side slapped. V2 then contacted a fire hydrant on the northeast corner of the intersection before coming to final rest. V1 came to rest facing north in lane 1 of the northbound lanes. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 stated that he was trying to turn left and had the green light but the northbound traffic was backed up in lane 2 blocking his path. A northbound car waited to create a gap for him and then waived him on. He started his turn but was struck by V2. The driver of V1 never saw the other vehicle before it hit him and was unable to take any avoidance actions. He suffered minor injuries but refused to be transported.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver related factor, a false assumption of other's action. The driver was waived on and therefore assumed that all traffic would yield the right of way to him. Associated factors include the traffic congestion, and the fact that the driver's view of oncoming traffic was obstructed by a stopped vehicle in the oncoming lane, and the driver's decision to turn with an obstructed view.

The driver of V2 stated that he was approaching the intersection in lane one, traveling at or near the posted speed limit, with a green light. He indicated that traffic was backed up in lane 2. He intended to proceed at a steady speed through the intersection when suddenly V1 appeared across his path turning left in front of him. He said he did not have time to take any avoidance actions and he never saw the other vehicle until it was too late. He suffered minor injuries but did not require transport.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction, over the left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors include the traffic congestion and the driver's sightline to v1 being obstructed by the non-contact vehicle stopped in lane two.