The crash occurred in the center of a "T" intersection composed of a two-lane north/southbound roadway, and a three-lane east/westbound roadway. All roadways were bituminous, with posted speed limits of 72 kmph (45 mph) and 40 kmph (25 mph) respectively. The north/southbound road way was level, while the east/west roadway had a 4% grade. A stop sign controlled the eastbound traffic. It was morning on a weekday. The roads were wet and there was a light rain. Traffic flow was moderate.

V1, a 2004 Dodge Grand Caravan with four occupants, was traveling east when it attempted to turn left at the intersection after observing the stop sign and was struck by V2 on the left side. V2, a 1998 Honda Accord with one occupant, was traveling south when it was struck by V1 as V1 attempted to turn left. V2 attempted to avoid the collision by applying her brakes. No other avoidance maneuvers were attempted. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, driven by a 26-year-old female who reported complaints of pain and was transported, stated to the officer that she stopped at the stop sign and was waiting to turn left. V1 then attempted to make the left turn and was struck by V2 on the left side. V1 made no avoidance maneuver. V1 was also occupied by three male children ages two, four and four. Two of the children were transported for observation.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "Driver related factor-type of driver error unknown". The following associated factor as assigned. Illegal maneuver-unknown, it was not clear if she stopped at the stop sign or not.

The Driver of V2, an 84-year-old female, reported a complaint of pain and was transported. Driver stated that she was approaching the intersection when V1 attempted to make a left 'pulling out in front of her, and she struck V1 on the rear left quarter panel. V2 applied her brakes and in an attempt to avoid V1.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment-from crossing street, turning into opposite direction". No Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were assigned.