This two-vehicle crash occurred during the early afternoon hours of a weekday. The collision took place on an urban roadway in a four-way intersection. The north/south roadway was undivided and had four lanes of travel. The east/west roadway was divided in the eastbound direction with two lanes of travel eastbound and one lane westbound on the west side of the intersection. Both roadways had a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The surface type was bituminous asphalt. Both roadways were flat, dry, and level, without any indications of physical damage. Weather conditions were clear and cold with partial breaks in the clouds.

V1, a 2006 Hyundai Tucson utility vehicle, was traveling northbound in lane one of the roadway. V1 proceeded into the intersection and struck V2, a 1998 Mercury Sable 4-door sedan on its right side corner. V1 suffered moderate damage to its front-left and had to be towed from the scene. Both frontal airbags deployed. V2 sustained minor damage and was driven away from the scene. The driver of V2 was transported to a medical facility to be evaluated. The driver of V1 did not sustain any injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 21 year-old female in generally good health, stated she was on her way home from school when the crash occurred. She reported passing through the intersection (northbound), in lane one, assuming the traffic light was green and did not see V1 at all. All she remembered was a "loud bang." The driver admitted to listening to music, but was adamant that she was not distracted by it. The driver has been driving her SUV for approximately one year. Prior, she drove a compact sedan. The driver wore prescribed contact lenses for nearsightedness.

The driver of V2, a 73 year-old female in fair health, stated she was on her way home from a day of errands when the crash occurred. The driver was stopped at the red light (first one in line) and proceeded to travel eastbound. She said that the other vehicle "came out of nowhere" and that she had "no time to react." The driver was taking 14 different medications for heart and stomach ailments but claimed that she felt perfectly fine during this particular leg of her trip. The driver travels the roadway frequently but notes, "not everyday, only for my doctor appointments." The driver of V2 received her license at the age of 61 (currently 73). Prior, she was privately tutored for approximately one year before she got her license.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was coded other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include inattention, inadequate surveillance, and an illegal maneuver for failing to stop for a red light.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was coded this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason was coded as inadequate surveillance because the driver failed to look to either side ahead before entering the intersection. Associated factors coded to the driver of V2 include her various medical conditions and use of prescription medications.