The crash occurred in the grass median of a divided, two-lane highway. The center of the median was a ditch. The roadway had a 3% downhill grade and a right curve. The posted speed limit was 88 kmph (55 mph). Conditions were dark and dry with clear skies. The setting was mid-evening hours on a weekday holiday.

Vehicle one was a 1991 Honda CRX 3-door hatchback. The Honda was traveling southbound in lane one around a right curve. The Honda began changing lanes to the left when it lost control. V1 rotated counter-clockwise 90 degrees and traveled off the left side of the roadway into the grass median. V1 struck the median ditch with its undercarriage, causing it to roll right 2 complete turns. V1 came to rest on its wheels facing eastbound in the median. An exhaust header weighing approximately 18 kilograms was thrown clear of the vehicle out the backlight during the rollover. Police Reported Travel Speed is 113 kmph for V1.

The Honda CRX was driven by a 26-year old male who was transported to a local trauma center with non-incapacitating injuries. He stated that he was leaving a party after having a couple of beers and was heading over to a local fast food restaurant. He had just finished a long-term overhaul on this vehicle and was driving it for the first time. He was attempting to change lanes when the car suddenly veered left and lost control. He attempted to steer right and brake but could not regain control. He mentioned patching the right rear tire before this trip, but wasn't sure what caused the control loss. He estimated his travel and impact speeds to be 120 kmph (75 mph). The Honda hatchback was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was this vehicle control loss due to traveling too fast for conditions. The Critical Reason was a driver related factor of too fast for curve. This driver had been drinking alcohol prior to the crash. He has asthma, but is not bothered by it and does not take medication for it. He is working 60 hours per week. This was his first time driving this vehicle after a long-term overhaul.