This single vehicle collision occurred early evening during dark hours with overhead street lights on the southbound lanes of a north/south US highway. The southbound lanes are dry, asphalt, have a -3.9% downgrade slope, and consist of four lanes. East of the east edge exists an asphalt median. East of the median exists a raised concrete median that separates the southbound and northbound lanes. West of the highway's west edge exists an asphalt shoulder. A raised asphalt curb borders the west edge of the shoulder. A dirt embankment exists west of the west curb. A raised concrete barrier borders the highway's west edge, south of the initial impact area. The concrete barrier turns westward into the dirt embankment. The west asphalt curb ends with the beginning of the concrete barrier. Approximately 0.4 kilometers (0.25 mile) prior to the collision area, the highway curves from northwest to southeast. The highway is designated an 89 kmph (55 mph) zone.

Vehicle one (V1) is a 2004 Ford Expedition XLS, sport utility vehicle, driven by a fifty five (55) year old female with seven passengers. V1 was traveling southbound in the number three lane. As V1 traveled the driver lost control it rotated clockwise across all lanes. The left front tire of V1 contacted the raised asphalt curb. The left rear tire of V1 then contacted the raised asphalt curb as it rotated clockwise. V1 traveled unto the embankment until contacting the concrete barrier with its left plane. V1 continued rotating clockwise until rolling unto its right plane. V1 came to rest facing eastbound on the western shoulder. V1 received rollover damage and was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: overcompensation. It was concluded that the driver of V1 made an unsafe lane change to her right and lost control of the vehicle. The driver was returning home with her family after spending the day at a theme park. She rarely drives this route