The crash occurred in the northbound lanes on a level bituminous four lane divided roadway (two northbound lanes and two southbound lanes) with a posted speed limit of 105 KPH (65 mph). The roadway was divided by a grass median with a positive w-beam guardrail barrier. The roadway curved to the right with a radius of curvature of 1,125 meters and a superelevation of .5%. It was cloudy, the roadway dry and it was daylight at the time of this early afternoon weekday crash. Traffic flow was normal for that time of day.

V1, a 1988 Toyota Corolla, was traveling north in the passing lane negotiating the curve to the right. V1 crossed into the passing lane, corrected to the right and began to rotate clockwise. V1 continued to rotate back across the driving lane, off the road on the right side, down a small embankment and rolled over two quarter turns to the right. V1 came to rest on its roof facing in a southeasterly direction. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The Toyota Corolla (V1) was driven by a belted 60-year-old male who was transported, treated and hospitalized for minor injuries. The driver stated that he was on his way home from the city after seeing his doctor the day before. He was traveling no more than 60 mph and not in a hurry. He said he fainted due to palipatations and atrial fibrillation, a pre-existing medical condition. He stated that he was in the right lane, then drifted left, hit a pole and came back on the roadway. (Note: Scene evidence indicated that no impact occurred off the left side of the road.) He then went off the right side of the road and rolled over coming to rest on the roof. A passerby helped him exit the vehicle. He considered himself in good health and took prescription medications.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was overcompensation. Associated factors coded to this driver were the use of prescription medications and physical factors (high blood pressure, GERD and heart conditions).