This two-vehicle crash occurred in the late morning hours on a weekday in the middle of a four-way intersection. The east/west roadway consisted of three lanes, which was intersected by a north/south roadway with two lanes on the south end and three lanes on the north end. All four directions of the intersection were controlled by traffic lights. The bituminous roadway was dry, straight, and level. The posted speed limit for the north/south roadway was 40kmph (25mph) and 56kmph (35mph) for the east/west roadway. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions and traffic flow was normal at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Hyundai Elantra, was heading north on the roadway in lane one, intending to make a right at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Oldsmobile Intrigue, was heading east on the roadway in lane one, intending to continue straight. As V1 attempted to turn right, the front of V2 contacted the left front of V1. After the impact, V1 rotated clockwise approximately 45 degrees before coming to final rest in the intersection facing northeast. Vehicle two came to a controlled stop in lane one of the eastbound roadway. Vehicle one had to be towed from the scene due to damage, while V2 was able to be driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a 73 year-old female, complained of pain as a result of the crash and was taken to the hospital for treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A complete interview was obtained from this driver. She relayed that she came to a complete stop at the intersection before attempting to make a right. She looked left and did not notice any vehicles approaching, so she proceeded. She related that she had recently had surgery for cancer in her chest and the seatbelt had caused discomfort as a result of the impact. She was taking medication for complications of cancer as well as heartburn and cholesterol. She claimed that her health has not affected her driving. She stated that she was not fatigued when beginning this leg of the trip and that she has a normal sleep pattern. The driver said that while she does not drive on the road often, it was not her first time and she was familiar with where she was. She relayed that although her vehicle inspection was not up-to-date, she had not experienced any mechanical problems. Another thing the driver mentioned was that the white lines that run across the lane were faded, and she wasn't sure where to stop.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was: "this vehicle traveling, turning right at intersection". The Critical Reason was coded as: "inadequate surveillance (failed to look, looked but did not see)". One associated factor coded to this driver was proceeding with insufficient clearance.

The driver of V2, a 70 year-old male, was not injured as a result of the crash and did not require any medical attention. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A complete interview was obtained from this driver. He claimed that he was going straight through the intersection and the other car pulled into the intersection directly in front of him, and that there was nothing he could do. He relayed that his health was good and that he was not fatigued when he began driving this leg of the trip. He said that he was currently taking medication for cholesterol and blood pressure. The driver stated that he was familiar with the area and that his vehicle was in proper working condition.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was: "other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, turning into same direction". The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no other associated factors coded for this vehicle.