This single-vehicle crash occurred on a northbound one-way 3-lane roadway several feet before a T-intersection. There were no signalized traffic control devices at this middle of the block location. The road surface was bituminous, dry, and level and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit was 64 kmph (40 mph). The crash occurred on a weekend during the early morning daylight hours. The roadway was free of any noticeable defects and the traffic flow was normal at this early morning hour.

Vehicle one, a 1995 Ford F250 large pickup towing a large trailer with lawn mowers, was traveling northbound in lane one when the trailer began to swerve left and right. Eventually out of control, the trailer jackknifed, entering lane two and detaching from the Ford pickup truck. After detaching, the trailer skidded 180 degrees clockwise, flipped over and lost its load across the roadway. The trailer came to final rest in lane two facing the opposite direction. After the trailer detached, the Ford pickup skidded out of control, rotating 180 degrees before striking the east side curb edge with its left rear tire. The impact blew out the tire and bent the axle, disabling the vehicle. The truck's final rest position was facing south. The truck was eventually towed from the scene. The police recorded the crash on a non-reportable accident report form. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1.

The driver of V1, a 48-year old male with two passengers aboard, reported he was traveling northbound in lane one when the trailer he was towing began to swerve left and right and he lost control of the trailer and it flipped over onto its side. He said he slammed on the trailer brakes but it seemed to speed up instead of slow down. Finally he explained that maybe he was going too fast, but the roadway was a straightaway and this early in the morning there's no traffic. He thought that maybe his trailer brakes failed. He travels on this roadway weekly and feels he's familiar with it. He's been a licensed driver for over thirty years. Neither he nor any of his passengers were injured.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to this vehicle was "this vehicle loss of control due to jackknife." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as "cargo shifted," a vehicle related factor. Associated factors coded to the driver include conversation with passengers and traveling too fast while towing a trailer.