The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a high occupancy, high volume, and high-speed interstate highway. There were five lanes running northbound with both right and left side paved emergency shoulders. There were concrete wall barriers separating the north/southbound traffic. The road widths were a standard 3.7 meters and the emergency-paved shoulders were 3.5 meters. The road was straight and level. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekday night. The posted speed was a 105 KPH (65 MPH).

V1 was a 2002 Infinity that was traveling southbound in lane four when traffic slowed due to rush hour traffic. V2, a 2004 Chrysler Sebring, traveling in the same lane suddenly came to a stop. V1 couldn't stop in time and hit the back of V2, pushing V2 into the back of V3, a 2002 Volvo that was stopped in lane four. V1 and V2 were both towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 49-year-old male who was on his way to a friend's home. He stated that he was traveling along in the forth lane where the traffic was stop and go due to rush hour conditions when he saw the car in front of him slow so he looked to his left to change into the fifth lane and when he looked back V2 was stopped. He hit his brakes but was not able to stop in time without hitting the back of V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was another vehicle stopped in lane. The critical reason was a driver error, inadequate surveillance, as the driver was looking to the left trying to make a lane change instead of looking ahead to watch traffic. An associative factor was the driver stated that he rarely drove the highway. He was cited for the crash for failure to use due care.

V2 was driven by a 36-year-old male who had just picked up his wife and son from work and they were on there way home. The driver stated that the traffic was stop and go and he had stopped in his lane when he was hit from behind. V2's passenger was transported due to neck and back injuries. There were no associative factors related to this driver. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was other vehicle traveling in the same direction with a higher rate of speed. The critical reason was not coded to this driver.

V3 was driven by a 27-year-old male who was on his way home from work. He stated in the interview that he was traveling in the forth lane and he came to a stop for traffic. He was then hit from behind by V2 after V2 was hit by V1. The driver of V3 was not injured and his vehicle was not towed due to damage. A critical pre-crash event was not coded for V3, as he was not involved in the first harmful event. There were no associative factors related to this driver.