The crash occurred in a four-way intersection on an east/west undivided roadway. There were three eastbound lanes and two westbound lanes. The north/south roadway was undivided and had three lanes of travel. Conditions were clear and dry on a weekend evening while still daylight. The roadway was straight and level. The posted speed limit was 64 kmph (35 mph).

V1 was a 2000 Volkswagen Jetta 4-door sedan that was driven by a 35-year-old female. V1 was traveling eastbound in lane three, a left turn-only lane, approaching the intersection. The driver noticed her brother at a corner store on the south side of the intersection and decided to turn right at the intersection. As V1 crossed over the second eastbound lane, the right rear of V1 was struck by the front of V2, a 1999 Mercury Cougar coupe that was traveling eastbound in lane two. At impact, V1 rotated clockwise approximately 180 degrees, coming to final rest in the intersection facing westbound. The driver of V2 was transported to a local hospital with injuries. Both V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 stated in her interview that she was approaching the intersection and was in the left turn-only lane when she saw her brother at the corner store. At that point she decided to change lanes to the right to attempt to make a right turn into the store. The driver stated that before she changed into lane two she looked behind her and saw no one in the lane. When she attempted to make the lane change she was hit from behind causing her vehicle to spin to the right. She stated that she did look but no one was in the lane. The driver was cited for the crash for improper lane change.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the right side of the travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was a driver error, inadequate surveillance. Associated factors coded to the driver include an exterior distraction and an illegal maneuver.

A 55-year-old male who was on his way home from a softball game drove V2. He was traveling eastbound in lane two when V1 cut into his lane. He stated that he tried to hit the brakes but she basically just drove right into him. V2 had minor front-end damage but was leaking fluids and would not start. The vehicle was towed to a local tow yard. The driver was injured and transported to the local hospital.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from the adjacent lane over the left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to this driver.