Case 2007-089

The crash occurred in the three-way intersection of two undivided two-lane roadways with one lane in each direction. The east/westbound roadway was straight, dry, level, asphalt with a posted speed limit of 64kph/40mph. There were no traffic controls for this road. The north/southbound roadway was straight, dry, level, asphalt with a posted speed limit of 48kph/30mph. There was a stop sign for northbound traffic. The crash happened on a weekend afternoon while traffic flow was moderate under clear skies. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, a 1998 Oldsmobile Intrigue four door with one occupant was northbound. V2, a 1996 Honda Civic hatchback with one occupant was traveling straight westbound. V1 turned left across the path of V2 and took no avoidance actions. V2 braked without lockup but was unable to avoid impact. The front left of V2 struck the right front of V1 causing V1 to rotate slightly to the left. V1 came to rest facing west in the westbound lane about three meters west of the impact point. V2 skidded to the right across the north shoulder and came to rest facing west on the shoulder about 30 meters west of impact. Both vehicles were towed due to damage.

V1, the Oldsmobile Intrigue, was driven by a 65-year old female was not injured. She advised that she was traveling from home to her son's home and that she stopped 3-4 seconds at the northbound stop sign and looked both directions before she accelerated and started to turn left. The driver said that she never saw V2 and as a result took no evasive actions before being struck.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was driver related, inadequate surveillance, failed to look, looked but did not see. The driver claimed that she stopped and looked, but the witness who stopped behind V1 said that DV1 did not look and only stopped briefly. Associated factors were assigned to this vehicle for driver physical condition (she suffers from epilepsy and is on medication; driver, recognition, inadequate surveillance, failed to look to the side (according to witness' statement); and for driver experience, first time on the road.

V2, the Honda Civic, was driven by a 36-year old male who was not injured. The driver reported that he was traveling about 72-80kph/45-50mph from work to home. He added that he did not see V1 turning across his path until just a second before impact, and that although he braked without lockup, he was unable to avoid impact.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from a crossing street turning into the same direction. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle. Associated factors were assigned to this vehicle for driver condition - fatigue (by his own admission); driver performance, emotional - work related stress; and for driver, recognition, inadequate surveillance, failed to look far enough ahead.