This two-vehicle crash occurred in a three-legged intersection. The main road runs north/south with in intersecting road coming in from the west. North/south traffic has no control devices, while the eastbound roadway is controlled by a passive stop sign, with no stop line present. Southbound approach is straight with a +1.6% grade and has a right turn lane that begins 83.7 meters (275 feet) before the intersection. Eastbound approach is straight with a -3.6% grade. There are sidewalks present on the west side of the roadway and none on the east side. The speed limit for both roadways is 56 kph (35 mph) and both roadways are bituminous asphalt. Setting was morning hours on a weekend. Conditions were daylight, clear and dry. Traffic was light at the time.

Vehicle 1 is a 2004 Ford Crown Victoria, full size police car with one occupant traveling southbound in lane two. Vehicle 2 is a 2002 Jeep Grand Cherokee, compact utility with one occupant traveling eastbound in lane one. V1 and V2 met in the intersection at the same time and collided at an angle. The front of V1 contacted the left side of V2 (event 1). V1 then rotated counterclockwise, while V2 rotated clockwise causing the right side of V1 to contact the left side of V2 (event 2). V1 steered left in an attempt to avoid the crash, while the driver of V2 made no avoidance maneuvers. V1 and V2 came to final rest in the northbound lanes against each other. V1 was facing southeast while V2 was facing east approximately 5.5 meters (18 feet) east of impact area. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 42 year-old female who was transported from the scene with evident injuries. She is a police officer who was on her way this morning to meet several other co-workers for breakfast at a local restaurant. A co-worker on scene told me he had been on the Nextel two-way radio with her seconds before the crash occurred. He advised that after impact she was unable to find her radio to call for help, so she called him on the Nextel and advised what her location was. Her fellow officer also told me that they have extensive driver training and that she drives that roadway daily because it was her patrol area. He had to leave the scene before I could question him further. The driver was not available for an interview due to the on-going criminal case. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "Other Vehicle Encroachment, from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "Not Coded to this driver." The driver was possibly distracted by her Nextel two-way call to her co-worker. She also had a police laptop mounted in the passenger's side of the vehicle, which was in use facing her direction, possibly causing a distraction. No other associated factors are known for this driver.

The driver of V2 is a 19 year-old female who was transported by police to the hospital for treatment. She denied using any medications or drugs prior to the crash. She is a full-time college student who works as a lifeguard when not in school. She told me that she spent the night at a friend's house. She went to bed very late, and woke up very early due to being uncomfortable and unable to sleep. She reported approximately 3.5 hours of sleep. She got in her car to head home down a road she had only driven on twice. She can't recall too much after that except that she ran the stop sign, which she wanted to turn left at and hit another car. She never saw the other car coming prior to impact. After impact, she hit her head "really hard" on the steering wheel. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 is "This vehicle traveling, turning left at the intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "Inattention"- a driver related error. The driver told me that she was inattentive to her driving, but was unable to offer a reason. She did report listening to the radio, a possible distraction. She was impaired by alcohol at the time of the crash, impairing her ability to drive safely. She reported being drowsy when she started driving , and with only 3.5 hours of sleep, it is likely that she was fatigued. She was also not familiar with this roadway. She had only driven it twice. She most likely failed to look right or left prior to entering the intersection, which was coded as an associated surveillance error. She does take daily acne medication which has dizziness listed as a side effect.