This four-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The east/west trafficway is divided by a curbed median and the speed limit is 80 kmph (50 mph). The eastbound lanes are curved to the right, have an uphill grade and consist of two through lanes and a left turn lane. The westbound lanes are curved to the left, have an uphill grade and consist of two through lanes, a right turn lane and a left turn lane. The roadway on the north side of the east/west roadway is straight, level and undivided. The southbound approach lanes consist of two left turn lanes and a through lane. The speed limit for this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Buick Century, was eastbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Dodge Stratus, was westbound in lane two. Vehicle three (V3), a 1998 Oldsmobile 88, was stopped southbound in lane one. Vehicle four (V4), a 2002 Buick Century, was stopped southbound in lane two. V1 turned left in the intersection and the right side was struck by the front of V2. V1 and V2 rotated and the right side of V1 struck the left side of V2. The front of V1 then struck the left side of V3 and the front of V2 struck the front of V4. V1, V2 and V3 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a fifty-two-year-old female, and the driver of V2, a twenty-eight-year-old female, were not interviewed. No further information is available for these drivers.

The driver of V3, a seventy-two-year-old male, was traveling with two female passengers, from his home to church. He was in fairly good health, well rested and comfortable with his vehicle and passengers.

The driver of V4 was a sixty-five-year-old male.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; type of driver error unknown."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."

The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded as "other; not involved first harmful event." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was "not coded to this vehicle."