This three-vehicle crash occurred in a three-leg intersection. The east/west roadway is undivided, straight and consists of one lane in each direction. The westbound lane has a -2% downgrade. The speed limit for this roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). The north/south roadway (on the south side of the east/west roadway) is straight and level. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Honda Accord, was westbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Dodge Caravan, was stopped westbound behind vehicle three (V3), which had stopped to make a left turn to travel south. At the last moment, the driver of V1 noticed that V2 and V3 were stopped and steered right and applied the brakes. The front of V1 struck the back of V2. V2 was pushed forward and the front of V2 struck the back of V3. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-seven-year-old male, was transporting his sixteen-year-old daughter to a class. He was well rested, familiar with his vehicle and healthy, although he takes Albuterol for exercise-induced asthma. He drives this route weekly. Just prior to the crash, this driver was having a personal discussion with his daughter and looked over at her. When he looked back at the roadway, he realized that the vehicles in front of him had stopped and made a futile attempt to avoid the collision.

The driver of V2, a sixty-seven-year-old male, had just picked up his ten-year-old grandson and was taking him home. This driver was well rested, healthy and comfortable with his vehicle. He drives on this roadway daily.

The driver of V3, a forty-one-year-old female, was traveling, with her one-year-old daughter, from a store to their home. This driver was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She drives on this roadway daily.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.