This two-vehicle crash occurred on a curbed median-divided, straight trafficway. Both directions consist of two through lanes. The speed limit for this trafficway is 64 kmph (40 mph). The southbound lanes have a downhill grade and the northbound lanes have an uphill grade. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Chevrolet Cavalier, was southbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Ford Econoline van, was northbound in lane two. V1 traveled into lane one, back into lane two and the driver lost control. V1 traveled over the median and, rotating clockwise, into the opposing traffic lanes. The front of V1 struck the left side of V2. V2 rotated counterclockwise and rolled over to the right two quarter-turns. The right side of V1 then struck a wooden pole. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, an eighteen-year-old female, had just picked up four teenage friends and was on the way to drop them off at their homes. She was well rested and stated that she was comfortable with her vehicle and passengers. She travels this route weekly. This driver stated that she had seven years of driving experience. She also stated that she has an ulcer and bipolar disorder but does not take medication for them because she cannot afford it.

The driver of V2, a thirty-five-year-old male, was traveling from one delivery to the next delivery. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He rarely travels this route. This driver stated that he applied the brakes and steered to the right when he saw V1 cross the median.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; off the edge of the road on the left side." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; poor directional control (e.g., failing to control vehicle with skill ordinarily expected)."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."