This two-vehicle crash occurred in the late morning hours of a weekday on a two-way, two-lane, not physically divided roadway. The bituminous north/south roadway was dry and level with a left curve for southbound traffic. There were no traffic control devices on this stretch of roadway. The posted speed limit was 64 kmph (40 mph). There were no traffic flow problems and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Cadillac DTS with one occupant, was northbound on the roadway approaching the curve. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Ford Excursion with two occupants, was southbound negotiating the left curve. As V1 continued north it drifted left and crossed the center yellow lines into the lane of on-coming traffic. The front left of V1 struck the front left of V2. After the impact, V1 rotated counter clockwise approximately 45 degrees and was pushed off of the right side of the road where it came to final rest facing west. V2 rotated slightly counter clockwise and also came to final rest on the right side of the roadway facing south. Both vehicles had to be removed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 71-year-old male, suffered non-incapacitating injuries as a result of the crash. While being interviewed several weeks after the crash he disclosed that he blacked-out due to a brain bleed that he sustained from a fall three weeks prior to the crash. He was on his way to a doctor's office to have some test performed when he was involved in the crash. He does not remember much regarding the crash, as he was unconscious.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The Critical Reason was coded as a driver related factor, a physical impairment of the ability to act. The driver lost consciousness and relinquished control of the vehicle.

The driver of V2, a 45-year-old female, was uninjured in the crash. Her 42-year-old male passenger in the right front seat suffered non-incapacitating injuries and was transported. The driver refused to be interviewed and answer any questions regarding the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no known associated factors coded to this vehicle.