This two-vehicle crash occurred on a straight, undivided roadway. The westbound direction has an uphill grade and consists of two through lanes. The speed limit for this roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). The driveway on the north side of this roadway is divided and consists of one lane in each direction. The southbound direction has a downhill grade and is controlled by a stop sign. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Ford F150 pickup, was westbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1984 Pontiac 6000, was stopped southbound in the driveway. V2 entered the intersection, turning left, and the left side was struck by the front of V1. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a fifty-four-year-old male, was on his way home from work for lunch. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that he saw V2 but assumed that it would wait until he had passed the driveway. When V2 entered the roadway, this driver applied the brakes (skidding longitudinally) in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The driver of V2, a seventy-nine-year-old female, had left her home and was on the way to a store to pick up some prescriptions. She was in fair health and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she has glaucoma and macular degeneration and had her eyes dilated the previous day by her eye doctor. She further stated that her eyes were not back to normal and that bright lights hurt her eyes. She was wearing prescription sunglasses at the time of the crash. This driver also stated that she felt fatigued. She takes the medications Norvasc, Betoptic, Xalatan and Zocor. This driver stated that she looked both directions before entering the roadway but did not see V1 prior to the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from driveway, turning into opposite direction." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's assumption that the driver of V1 would yield the right-of-way was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other; leaving driveway, turning left" The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)." This driver's vision impairment was an associated factor in this crash.