The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. Both were two-lane undivided bituminous roadways with a level grade and a posted speed of 40 kmph (25 mph). The east/west roadway was controlled stop signs, while the north/south roadway had no traffic control device. It was mid-afternoon on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic was sparse.

V1, a 2002 GMC Envoy utility vehicle with one occupant, was traveling southbound. V1 was approaching the intersection intending to go straight. V2, a 2005 Chevrolet Malibu four-door sedan with one occupant, was traveling westbound. V2 was approaching the intersection also intending to go straight. The driver of V2 stated that his cell phone had started ringing as he was approaching the intersection, so he looked down to answer it and did not see the stop sign. The driver of V1 stated that she did not see V2 until impact. Neither vehicle attempted an avoidance action. Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the front of V1 struck the front right of V2. Both vehicles then rotated and the left rear side of V1 contacted the right rear side of V2. V1 then departed the roadway on the southwest corner where it came to final rest. V2 also departed the roadway on the southwest corner where its front struck a fence and came to final rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 49-year old female. She reported no injuries and refused treatment. She stated that she had just left the bank and was on her way to the store. She stated that she had been traveling between 2-16 kmph (1-10 mph) prior to striking V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for the driver of V1 was: Other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to this driver was inadequate surveillance (failed to look either side ahead).

The driver of V2 was a 26-year old male. He reported no injuries and refused treatment. He stated that he had just left his friend's house and was on his way home. He stated that he had been traveling between 34-48 kmph (21-30 mph) prior to being struck by V1.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for the driver of V2 was: This vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was a driver related error: Internal distraction because he was looking at his cell phone instead of watching the road. Associated factors coded to this driver included inadequate surveillance (failed to look to either side ahead); an illegal maneuver for failing to stop at the stop sign, unfamiliarity with the roadway and unfamiliarity with the vehicle.