This two-vehicle nighttime collision occurred at a three-legged intersection in a residential area. The roadway has two lanes of travel and is straight and level in the area of the crash. The speed limit for the roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). At the time of the crash the sky was clear. There are no stop or yield signs posted for any direction of travel at this intersection; however, the northbound leg has a warning sign posted.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Toyota Scion coupe driven by a twenty six (26) year old male with two passengers, was headed eastbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Ford Escort sedan driven by a fifty one (51) year old female, was turning west from the northbound lane of the intersection. V2 was making a left turn at the intersection by only slowing for the intersection and turning short in the roadway. The front of V2 contacted the right of V1 pushing it into lane one of the oncoming traffic lane. V1 then left the roadway and continued to travel through a lawn, over a sidewalk, over a lawn, over a driveway, and back onto a lawn before impacting a rose bush and a fence. Both vehicles were towed due to damage; neither driver was transported to the hospital. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle. (An associated factor coded to this vehicle is a possible sight-line restriction, shrubbery at the intersection).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event is coded to V2 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). An associated factor for V2 was a sight-line restriction due to shrubbery at the southwest corner of the intersection, This driver did not clearly indicate if she stopped at the intersection or not.