The three-vehicle crash occurred on a six-lane, divided, east/west roadway near the intersection with a seven-lane, divided, north/south roadway. There are three travel lanes for westbound traffic. The roadway was level, dry and of concrete construction. The lanes shift to the left (south) by 5.5 meters (18 feet) starting 127.8 meters (419 feet) prior to the intersection and ending at 19.9 meters (65 feet) prior to the intersection. Overhead traffic control lights control traffic at the intersection. The posted speed limit is 72 kmph (45 mph). Traffic was heavy and congested at the time of the crash. This crash occurred during daylight hours with clear skies.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Honda Odyssey, with one occupant, was westbound in the third travel lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Ford Ranger, with one occupant, was westbound in the third travel lane ahead of V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 2002 Ford Explorer, with one occupant, was westbound in the third travel lane ahead of V2. When V2 and V3 stopped for the traffic signal, the front of V1 struck the back of V2. The impact forced V2 forward and the front of V2 struck the back of V3. All three vehicles came to rest in the third lane. Both V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-three year old male, was heading to dinner from home. This driver had been driving for about seven minutes, drives the route daily and is familiar with the vehicle. The driver stated he was looking to the left (not specific) and assumed that V2 and V3 would continue to proceed. He did not detect that V2 had stopped until impact and did not attempt any evasive maneuvers.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: external distraction. This driver was looking to his left, failed to notice that V2 had stopped and did not attempt any evasive maneuvers. He falsely assumed that V2 would continue into the intersection.

The driver of V2, a twenty-four year old male, could not be located for an interview.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in the same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for V2 was not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V3, a fifty-five year old female, refused to be interviewed.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.