The crash occurred in an intersection of an east/west divided roadway and an undivided north/south roadway. On both the east and westbound approach to the intersection, there were four lanes of travel, with lane four being a left turn-only lane. This was a straight section of roadway intersecting a four-lane undivided north/south roadway with two lanes in each direction. The bituminous roadway had a posted speed of 72 kmph (45 mph). It was mid-afternoon on a weekday. The roadway was dry and the sky was clear. This was a heavily traveled intersection and traffic flow was moderate at the time.

V1, a 2000 Dodge Stratus four-door sedan with 1 occupant, was stopped facing east in the left turn lane (lane 4), waiting for traffic to clear so she could turn left into the northbound lane two. V2, a 2001 Toyota Sienna minivan with 1 occupant, was traveling westbound in lane 2, intending to travel straight through the intersection. V1 turned in front of V2 and the front right of V2 struck the right passenger side of V1. Following this impact, both vehicles traveled west one meter. Both vehicles then came to final rest in the intersection with V2 facing west and V1 facing northeast. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the 2000 Dodge Stratus, was driven by a 36-year old female. She was transported for possible injuries. The driver of V1 had left her sister's house only 10 minutes before the crash and was turning into the northbound lane two intending to visit a friend. The driver reported that she was turning left at a speed of about 16 kmph (10 mph).

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason was " Internal distraction" because the driver of V2 reported that the driver of V1 was having an animated conversation with someone on her cell phone at the time of the crash. Inadequate surveillance (looked but did not see) was coded as an associated factor because the driver of V1 stated that she had been stopped for over 10 seconds waiting for traffic to clear, and she stated that she never saw V2 prior to the crash.

V2, the Toyota Sienna, was driven by a 28-year old female. The driver was not injured. She stated that she was westbound in lane 2 intending to go straight. The driver of V2 had come from having lunch at her home and she had traveled approximately 1 mile on her way back to work when the crash occurred. Upon seeing V1 turn in front of her, the driver of V2 attempted to avoid the crash by braking hard. The front of V2 contacted the right front of V1.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was " Other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to the driver of V2.