This two-vehicle crash occurred at a four-leg, traffic signal-controlled intersection within an interchange area. On the west leg of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a paved median and the eastbound traffic lanes consist of two through lanes and a left-turn lane. This roadway curves left, is downhill, and has a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred in the early afternoon with moderate traffic flow.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Toyota Tundra with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane two, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Honda Pilot with three occupants, was traveling eastbound in lane two in front of V1. The traffic signal indicated a yellow light for eastbound traffic and the driver of V2 applied the brakes to slow and come to a stop. The driver of V1 saw V2 slowing and applied the brakes also. Then the brake lights of V2 were not visible to the driver of V1 for a moment and the driver of V1 thought V2 was going to continue through the intersection and he would follow them. The driver of V2 applied the brakes again and this time there was lock-up. The driver of V1 applied the brakes with lock-up and steered slightly left to avoid a collision, but the front of V1 impacted the back of V2. Both vehicles came to final rest facing east in lane two a few meters/feet east of the point of impact. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-two-year-old male, was driving from a job site to pick up supplies. He was rested, very comfortable with his vehicle and cargo load, and drives this route about once every two weeks. He is diabetic, but felt his blood sugar levels were fine at the time of the crash because he felt good. He takes no medication for this condition. He admitted to using his cell phone at the time of the crash, but his boss had just put him on hold. He also has some work-related stress because his crew speaks very poor English.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions.

The driver of V2, a thirty-one-year-old female, was driving from a shopping trip with her two children and going to get gas. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route weekly. She is in good health and takes vitamins on a regular basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.