This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. On the south side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a grassy median and the northbound traffic lanes consist of a right-turn lane, two through lanes, and a left-turn lane. This roadway is concrete, straight, and level, with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). On the east side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a curbed median and the westbound traffic lanes consist of a right-turn lane, two through lanes, and two left-turn lanes. This roadway is bituminous, straight, level, and has a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred in the early afternoon on a weekend with moderate traffic flow.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Mercury Mountaineer with one occupant, was northbound in lane two, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1989 Toyota Camry with one occupant, was stopped at the intersection, westbound in lane two. The traffic signal indicated a green light for westbound traffic and the driver of V2 proceeded into the intersection. V1 proceeded into the intersection at the same time. There was no avoidance action on the part of either driver, and the front of V2 struck the right side of V1. V1 rotated clockwise and came to final rest facing south-southwest in lane one, north of the intersection. V2 rotated clockwise and came to final rest near the point of impact, but was moved to lane one, facing northbound, north of the intersection prior to the researcher's arrival on-scene. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Neither driver was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1 and 80 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-eight-year-old female, was driving from her home and going to a nail salon. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route several times a month. She said her health is good, but she has had inner ear trouble for a year and a half and has had occasional blackouts and dizzy spells due to this condition. She stated that she remembered getting off the highway about a mile south of the intersection where the crash occurred, but that the next act that she was conscious of was immediately following the crash. She said that her condition has never affected her driving until now.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act. The driver blacked out due to inner ear trouble. The driver ran the red light at the intersection.

The driver of V2, an eighteen-year-old male, was driving from returning a DVD rental and going to his home. He was well rested, very comfortable with his vehicle, and drives this route weekly. He is in good health, but has Type 1 diabetes and uses an insulin pump with Humalog to control his blood sugar. He was stopped more than 10 seconds when the traffic signal turned green and he proceeded into the intersection. He failed to look to his left before entering the intersection.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.