The crash occurred on a fully controlled highway with two lanes in each direction divided by a grassy median. The straight, level, bituminous roadway has a posted speed limit of 113kph (70 mph). Conditions at the time of the weekday afternoon crash were daylight, cloudy and dry.

V1, a 1992 Honda Accord 4 door sedan driven by a 36 year-old male was westbound on the highway in lane two going 121 kmph (75 mph), 1.5 car lengths behind a pick-up truck with a cap. The driver stated that all of a sudden traffic slowed to look at a number of police vehicles on an exit ramp on the right. The pick-up truck suddenly slammed on his brakes and screeched to a stop. The driver of V1 braked and swerved to the left onto the paved shoulder and into the grassy median. V1 fishtailed and the driver steered back to the right, over corrected and reentered the roadway on the left side. V1 rotated clockwise, crossed lane two and still moving but with the driver braking, into lane one facing northeast. The front of V1 was struck by the front of V2, a semi truck, in lane one. V1 rotated counterclockwise to final rest on the left shoulder facing east. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver denied injuries at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 2006 Volvo 507 CBE tractor-trailer loaded with a 22,965 pound steel coil, was driven by a 30 year-old male traveling westbound in lane one. The driver of V2 and the witness stated that the driver of V2 braked and steered right partially onto the paved shoulder trying to avoid V1. After the front left of the semi struck the front of V1, the driver steered back left to get back onto the roadway. V2 crossed both travel lanes, left the roadway on the left and entered the median. V2, traveling in a counterclockwise yaw across the median, rolled one-quarter turn to the right. V2 came to rest on its right side, facing south. The steel coil on the flatbed of the semi, spilled into the median following the rollover. V2 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver was transported to a local trauma center due to injuries.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to V1 was “this vehicle control loss due to traveling too fast for conditions”. The Critical Reason coded to this driver was “following too closely to be able to respond to unexpected actions”. Contributing factors coded were 'overcompensation', 'successful avoidance maneuver to a previous critical event'.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to V2 was 'other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane (same direction) over left lane line'. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded was 'driver rarely drives the road where the crash occurred'.

Associated factors coded for both drivers were 'other traffic flow interruption due to driver's looking at police vehicles on exit ramp'.