This two-vehicle crash occurred at an urban, signal-controlled intersection with raised barrier curbs and pedestrian crosswalks present. This intersection was located at the entrance to a major college university. Northbound approach had a slight left curve profile with a 4% super-elevation and a downhill 4% grade. The designated left turn lane contains a sensor controlled left turn arrow, but stays solid green when the northbound and southbound signal is green. Southbound approach is straight with a -4% downhill grade. The posted speed limit is 64 kph (40 mph). Setting was evening hours on a weekend. Conditions were dark, day and clear with overhead amber street lighting. Traffic flow was light to moderate on that evening.

V1 is a 1999 Volkswagen Beetle, two-door with two occupants traveling northbound in lane four (left turn lane). V2 is a 2007 Toyota Corolla, four-door with five occupants traveling southbound in lane one. V1 turned left as V2 was entering the intersection. The front plane of V1 contacted the left, front plane of V2 in the intersection (Event 1). There were approximately 3 meters (10 feet) of skids marks left by V2 prior to impact. V1 rotated slightly counterclockwise after impact coming to final rest facing west at the impact point. V2 was pushed laterally to the right, departing the southwest corner of the intersection and coming to final rest partially in a grass ditch and on the sidewalk 22.0 meters (72 feet) from the impact point. Both vehicles were towed from the scene with disabling damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

The Driver of V1 is a 24 year-old female who was not injured in this crash. She is a full-time foreign-exchange college student who is limited to 20 hours per week of work by the university. She has been in the US for one year and a few months, and has been driving for one year only with informal driver training provided by friends. She didn't understand English well and had 10-12 friends on-scene helping her translate and coaching her on what to say. She reports no health or emotional issues. She tells me that she had left her house several minutes ago with a friend. They were en-route to pick-up another friend and go out to dinner. She said she wanted to make a left turn and enter the apartment complex. She was unable to recall her speed or the color of the light signal. She only remembers seeing V2 at the last second and applied the brakes and tried to steer left to avoid a crash. That was the only description the driver was able to provide of the crash events.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 is "this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event is "driver related factor, internal distraction." This driver was talking with her passenger and saw she had a green light, but was distracted by the conversation and failed to realize it was not a left turn arrow, so entered the intersection assuming she had the right of way and that V2 would stop for her. She only has a little more than a year of driving experience in the US with informal training provided by her friends, a driver experience factor. The conversation was a recognition factor. Her vehicle was not completely inspected, so its unknown if there were any vehicle related factors.

The driver of V2 is a 21 year-old male who was not injured in this crash. He has a full-time job normally working 37 hours per week, but has only worked 24 this week due to family matters he had to pertain to. He's also a football player who practices five days per week, four hours per practice, 20 hours total. On this evening, he and four other teammates were on their way home from football practice. They had only been on the road for a few minutes. He said they were all talking to each other while driving in lane one at 64 kph (40 mph). He says as he was ½ a car length from entering the intersection, he saw V1 making a left turn and traveling toward him. He applied the brakes, locking them up and steered right in an attempt to avoid a collision. It was unsuccessful; V1 struck his left, front side. After impact, he jumped the curb and came to rest in a grassy ditch.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 is "other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over left lane line." The Critical Reason was "not coded to this vehicle." The driver had just come from football practice (strenuous recreational activity), a physical factor. The conversation was a recognition factor. The driver hadn't worked in three days due to "family matters," coded other emotional factors. The vehicle was over the manufacturers' recommended cargo/passenger load. Recommended is 385 kg (850 lbs); driver had 432 kg (950 lbs) total load for his vehicle.