This crash occurred in the early afternoon of a weekday in the southbound lanes of a four-lane undivided roadway. The north/south roadway consisted of two lanes in each direction with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The roadway was bituminous, dry, and level with a curve to the left (in the southbound direction). The traffic flow was restricted due to a disabled vehicle in lane one and a light snow was falling at the time of the crash.

V1, a 2007 Chevrolet Malibu with one occupant was southbound in lane one. V2, a 2003 Chrysler Voyager with one occupant, was also southbound ahead of V1. There was a disabled vehicle stopped in lane one as the vehicles negotiated the left curve. Both vehicles merged into lane two to pass the disabled vehicle. As V2 passed the disabled vehicle the driver stopped V2 to ask the driver of the disabled vehicle if he needed any help. V1 failed to stop behind V2 and the left front corner of V1 struck the right rear corner of V2. After the initial impact V1 continued traveling to the right and contacted a concrete barrier, resulting in damage to the front right of V1. Both vehicles came to final rest in the southbound lanes of the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a 52-year-old male, was uninjured in the crash. He stated that he noticed the disabled vehicle's driver and was focused on him. He did not see V2 come to a stop and when he looked back to the road he was about to strike V2. The driver turned sharply to the right and applied his brakes, but was unable to avoid contacting V2. V1 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a driver related factor, an external distraction. The driver of V1 stated that he had a cushion of about 100 feet between his vehicle and V2. If he had not been distracted by the driver of the disabled vehicle, he would have had adequate time to avoid V2. Associated factors include the traffic flow restriction due to the disabled vehicle and the snow that was falling at the time of the crash.

The driver of V2, a 43-year-old male, was uninjured in the crash. He told the police on scene that he stopped in the traffic lane to see if the driver of the disabled vehicle needed any assistance. V2 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors include an external distraction as the driver was conversing with the driver of the disabled vehicle as well as the traffic flow restriction and the snow that was falling at the time of the crash.