This crash occurred on a 4-lane undivided east/west roadway at an intersection controlled by an electronic traffic control without a pedestrian crossing signal. The roadway was level with two lanes of travel in each direction. The speed was posted at 56 kmph (35 mph). The eastbound roadway curved to the left heading into the intersection. The radius of curvature was 16071m. The weather was cloudy. The crash occurred in the morning hours while daylight.

Vehicle #1, a 1996 Pontiac Bonneville 4-door sedan, was traveling westbound approaching the intersection in lane #2. The driver stopped at the intersection in preparation of making a left turn. The driver stated he noticed the light had changed to amber so he then looked through the intersection and noticed Vehicle #2, a 1994 Buick LeSabre 4-door sedan, traveling east in lane #1 negotiating the curve coming into the intersection. The driver of V1 thought that V2 was a good distance away and thought it was safe to make his turn. Thinking V2 would stop for the traffic light, the driver of V1 began his turn. The front of V1 struck the left front of V2 as V2 proceeded into the intersection. V2 rotated slightly clockwise to come to final rest at the southeast corner of the intersection. V1 rotated counterclockwise to come to final rest at the same area on the southeast corner. Both drivers and the passengers of V2 were not injured in the crash. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 31 year-old male drove V1. He reported being in good health and taking no medications. He also reported that he wears corrective lenses for reading only and was not wearing the lenses at the time of the crash. The driver stated he was on his way home from visiting with his brother. He stated he had come to a stop at the intersection and was checking traffic when the traffic light changed to amber. He stated he saw V2 negotiating the curve on the west side of the intersection. He stated that when he noticed V2 it was some 50 yards away and thought it was going to stop for the traffic light. He also stated he was turning on the end of the amber light. He stated that as he was making his turn he was looking to the south "and then there she was and I could not avoid her."

A 26-year-old female drove V2. She reported being in good health and taking no medications. She also stated she wears corrective lenses for farsightedness. She stated she had just left her home and was taking her children to school and daycare. She stated she was conversing with the children as she negotiated the curve. She then stated the vehicle across the intersection made a left turn at the last minute striking her vehicle in the left fender, rotating her slightly clockwise. She reported that she and her children were not injured in the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event coded for V1 was this vehicle traveling - turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded driver related error- misjudgment of gap or other's speed. Associated factors coded to this driver were misjudgment of velocity of other vehicle and false assumption - assumed other vehicle would yield the right of way.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Two associated factors coded to this driver were conversation with the children and a false assumption because she assumed that V1 would yield the right of way.

The witness stated he was stopped on the north side of the intersection in lane #2 waiting to go straight through the intersection. He stated he saw V2 traveling east in lane #1 traveling straight through the intersection. He stated V1 came from the west in lane #2. He did not notice blinkers on either vehicle. He stated V1 came to the intersection and turned left into V2 without stopping.