This two-vehicle crash occurred at a "T" intersection that is controlled by a single stop sign for northbound traffic. There were no traffic controls for east/west traffic. There are two eastbound and two westbound lanes that are separated by a continuous two-way left turn lane. There is a single northbound and a single southbound lane with no centerline. The speed limit on both roadways is posted at 56 kmph (35 mph). Both roadways were straight, level and constructed of bituminous asphalt. The roadways were dry and the weather was clear at the time of this evening crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Ford Taurus four door with one occupant, was traveling northbound in the number one lane approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Ford Ranger pickup truck with two occupants, was eastbound in the number one lane approaching the intersection. Neither vehicle had any cargo. V1 entered the intersection after making a rolling stop and attempted to turn left. V2 traveled through the intersection and was struck in the right side by the front of V1. V1 rotated clockwise and came to rest in the number two, eastbound lane facing generally southbound. V2 continued to travel eastbound and came to a controlled stop in the number four, eastbound lane facing generally eastbound. The vehicles were separated by 17 meters (57 feet) at final rest positions. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene. The driver of V1 was transported to a medical facility. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.

A seventeen (17) year-old female drove V1. The driver stated she had been in a car wash at this location, had exited and stopped at the stop sign. She further stated that a vehicle went past and she pulled out to make a left turn and then impacted with the pickup (V2) in the right side. She said she looked but never saw V2.

A twenty six (26) year old female drove V2, she stated she was eastbound in the number one lane approaching the intersection at a constant speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). She stated she saw V1 approaching the stop sign and thought it would stop and V1 did not. The V2 driver stated that she did not have time to avoid the crash. The driver stated she was an experienced driver of ten years with high school driver education. She said she was in good health and was not tired at the time of the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see). A witness stated that he was behind V1 and the driver made a rolling stop while attempting to make a left turn. There was a possible partial sight-line restriction for this driver in the form of a tree on the left corner.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 coded other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.