This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. Both roadways are undivided, straight and level. The north/south roadway consists of two lanes in each direction. The speed limit for this roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). The east/west roadway consists of two lanes in each direction with a left turn lane at the intersection. The speed limit for this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Chevrolet Cobalt, was southbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Oldsmobile Alero, was westbound in lane two. A non-contact vehicle (a large truck) was stopped southbound in lane two. In the intersection, the front of V2 struck the left side of V1. V2 moved to the southwest corner of the intersection and the front struck a fence post. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-five-year-old male, was traveling from his home to a store. He was healthy and well rested. He rarely drives this vehicle but stated that he felt comfortable with it. This driver has diabetes and takes insulin. He stated that he had used marijuana the previous evening. He further stated that he "accelerated quick like I usually do, getting out into the intersection before the truck."

The driver of V2, a twenty-seven-year-old female, was on her way from work to a meeting. She was well rested, healthy and comfortable with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she did not see V1 prior to the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's inadequate surveillance was an associated factor in this crash.