Case 2007-119

The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a six-lane roadway divided by a median without a positive barrier. There were four lanes eastbound and two lanes westbound. The asphalt road was straight, level and dry with a posted speed limit of 72kph/45mph. There was an over-hanging traffic control signal without pedestrian control. The crash happened on a weekend night under clear skies with moderate traffic flow. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, a 1987 Dodge Ram 50 pickup truck with two occupants was eastbound in lane two. V2, a 2005 Ford F150 pickup truck with two occupants was stopped for the red light at the traffic signal eastbound in lane two. V1 was traveling at a high rate of speed and braked with lockup in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid impact. The front of V1 struck the rear of V2 and became snarled on V2's trailer hitch. The impact knocked V2 less than a meter and both vehicles came to rest facing east in lane two. Only V1 was towed due to damage.

V1, the Dodge Ram 50, was driven by a 63-year old male. Both he and his 55-year old right seat passenger were transported to a hospital. The driver was coded for possible injury and the passenger for incapacitating injuries. The driver reported that he was traveling 72kph/45mph from a friend's home to a relative's home. He stated that he was behind V2 in lane three when V2 stopped in front of him for an unknown reason as they approached the intersection. He added that he did not know the status of the traffic control or if it was working. The driver reported that the brakes on his vehicle were not in good condition and that when he tried to stop they locked up and he was not able to stop before striking V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was other motor vehicle in lane stopped. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was driver related, too fast to be able to respond to the unexpected actions of others. The driver did not expect V2 to stop. An associated factor was assigned to this vehicle for driver condition support - fatigued. During the interview he stated he has suffered from sleep apnea and he did not get his normal amount of sleep the previous night. Another factor was assigned for driver, physical, health. He was observed by the police to be DUI. He was given a BAC but the result is not yet available. In addition, the driver suffers from numerous physical ailments including a bad back, hip, shoulder, knee, thyroid and heart. He admitted taking at least five medications and was drinking intoxicants at the same time. Another associated factor was assigned for driver behavior, recognition - inattention, thought focus unknown; for conversing with the passenger; and for inadequate surveillance - failure to look far enough ahead. Another factor was assigned for driver behavior, decision - too fast, reason unknown. A factor was also assigned for other - vehicle - oversized tires and deficient brakes.

V2, the Ford F150, was driven by a 47-year old male. Neither he nor his female passenger were injured. The driver reported that he had a red light and was stopped for more than 10 seconds with his foot on the brakes. He had been traveling home from a friend's home. The driver said he heard nothing and was not aware that he was about to be struck, so he took no evasive actions. He said he felt V1 hit him from behind.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was other motor vehicle in lane traveling the same direction with a higher rate of speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle. Associated factors were assigned to this vehicle for driver behavior, recognition, conversing with passenger and for other - vehicle, oversized tires.