This crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a north/south interstate. There were three lanes of travel in each direction divided by a grass median. The roadway was level, dry, straight asphalt. The speed was posted at 113 kmph (70 mph). The crash occurred in the morning hours on a clear weekday.

Vehicle #1, a 1997 Saturn SC1 coupe, was traveling southbound weaving in and out of traffic. Three witnesses all reported that they saw V1 all over the roadway. They reported that V1 departed the roadway on the left several times before re-entering the roadway, crossing over lane 3 and then into lane 2 where the front of V1 impacted the rear of V2, a 2000 Kenworth tractor-trailer. After impact, V1 departed the roadway on the right side, traveling down an embankment to contact some small trees with the right side and then front of the vehicle. V1 came to final rest off the roadway facing south. The driver of V2 decelerated as quickly as possible, moving over to the right shoulder of the roadway. V2 sustained minimal damage. The driver of V1 was transported to the local trauma center due to injuries and his vehicle was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 36 year-old male who stated he was in good health drove V1. The driver did state that he was taking medication for anxiety. He reported that he was driving on a suspended license at the time of the crash because his ride to work did not pick him up. He stated that he did not remember if he blacked out or if he had dropped his sandwich on the floor and was retrieving it at the time of the crash. He stated he had mayonnaise on his leg and that was why he thought he dropped his sandwich. He stated he really did not remember any of the crash.

A 54 year-old male who reported being in good health drove V2. He stated that he was on his way from the truck yard to drop a load at a waste plant in the area at the time of the crash. He stated at the time of impact it felt like he had a tire blow out. He stated that he looked from side to side in the rear view mirrors to see a dark object travel off the right side of the roadway. He then started to decelerate to pull over to see what had happened. He stated he was not injured in the crash and the truck was not damaged.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was coded other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction at lower steady speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as a critical non-performance error because it was believed that the driver passed out due to drug use. Medical records indicated that the driver tested positive for both benzodiazepines and cocaine. Ambulance staff noted that although the driver had had his prescription for Xanax filled just 7 days before, the bottle was half empty. Associated factors coded to the driver include the medical condition of anxiety, traveling too fast, aggressive driving, and being in a hurry.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was coded other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to this driver.