This single-vehicle left roadside departure crash occurred in a left curved roadway with an uphill grade and a +6% super-elevation. There are two bituminous travel lanes divided by a two-way left turn lane. The posted speed limit was 64 kph (40 mph) with an advisory left curve speed limit of 56 kph (35 mph). The left roadside is grass and contains a -38% slope. Setting was late evening hours on a weekday. The roadway was wet from rain earlier in the night and was covered by wet leaves that had blown off the trees during the rainstorm. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of crash. It was dark with no artificial overhead lighting present. Traffic flow was very light.

V1 is a 1995 Lexus LS 400, four-door with one occupant traveling northbound in lane one, negotiating a left curve. V1's right tires departed the road slightly to the right, leaving 26.1 meters (86 feet) of tire impressions in the grass. V1 then overcorrected to the left, causing it to cross the center lane and the southbound lane. V1 departed the left side of the road while in a slight clockwise yaw, 24.0 meters (78 feet) from roadway re-entry. V1 traveled down the steep grass embankment and struck a wood fence with its left side (Event 1), 13.0 meters (43 feet) from left road departure. V1 then travel 3.7 meters (12 feet) and struck a 30cm diameter tree with its left side (Event 2). V1 came to final rest against that tree facing northwest with disabling damage, requiring it to be towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1 is a 35 year-old male who suffered minor injuries in the crash, refusing treatment by EMS. He was not interviewed on-scene because police transported him to the county jail to determine his level of intoxication by drugs and alcohol. He acted very belligerent toward the police, yelling profanity and making threats to kill emergency workers as well as myself. Police said he appeared to be under the influence of methamphetamine or similar stimulant drug based on his aggressive behavior as well as alcohol use. Police also told me he had three (3) prior convictions for driving while impaired. He told police that he had left his home to go to the store for dog food and cigarettes. He was on his way back home when a "tree jumped out into the roadway from nowhere," causing him to go sideways and strike a fence and tree. He said he didn't call for police and didn't know why they were there.

The Critical Precrash Event was "this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the roadway on the left side." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "too fast for conditions: too fast for the wet, leaf covered roadway. This driver was under the influence of both alcohol and amphetamine or other similar stimulant type drug. He was traveling too fast for conditions and likely didn't realize caution was required due to the wet leave covered roadway ahead. He did exhibit poor directional control. After running off the road to the right, he should to controlled his vehicle with better skill. The driver was not interviewed so any other human factors are not known. The vehicle was only partially inspected, so therefore its unknown if there were any vehicle deficiencies.