This three-vehicle crash occurred mid-afternoon along a busy midtown road during daylight hours. The road is straight with a 5% grade, four lanes, two-way, non-divided, and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The road was dry, and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1) was a 1996 Acura RL 4-door sedan, driven by a fifty (50) year-old male who was eastbound in lane 2. Vehicle 2 (V2) was a 1992 Ford Explorer SUV driven by a male of unknown age, who was westbound in lane 1. V3 was a 2001 Dodge Stratus 4-door sedan driven by a twenty nine (29) year old female, who was eastbound in lane 1. V2's westbound path had heavy traffic and a city bus stopping to pick up passengers in front of him. V2 made evasive action to the left, through lane 2 and into oncoming traffic. The front of V2 sideswiped the left middle and rear of V1. This impact sent V1 into a counter clockwise rotation, and V1 came to rest half on the south curb, and half in eastbound lane one, facing northwest. V2 continued to the left, and encroached into eastbound lane 1, where the front of V3 contacted V2's left front. V2 came to rest half on the south curb, half in eastbound lane 1, facing south. V3 came to rest in partially on the south curb and partially in eastbound lane 1, facing southeast. All 3 vehicles were towed with moderate damage. The driver of V2 fled the scene on foot. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. This driver was coming from visiting his father and going home when V2 suddenly drove towards his vehicle in his travel lane.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V2 as a driver related factor: aggressive driving behavior. Associated factors for V2 were excessive speed and poor directional control. This driver was trying to pass up congested traffic by wrecklessly driving in the opposing direction of travel travel lanes. It is unknown why the driver did this.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. The driver of V3 has asthma and uses a ProAir inhaler and albuterol inhaler as needed. He did not use these within a week of the collision.