This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. Both roadways are straight, level, undivided and consist of one lane in each direction. The speed limit for these roadways is 56 kmph (35 mph). It was dark with streetlights on at the time of the crash with no adverse atmospheric conditions. There was a large shrub in the northwest corner of the intersection.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Ford Taurus, was southbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Honda CR-V, was eastbound in lane one. In the intersection, the front of V2 struck the right side of V1. The vehicles rotated and the right side of V1 struck the left side of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a fifty-eight-year-old male, was on his way to work from his home. He was familiar with his vehicle and route. He has high blood pressure and takes the medications Labetalol, Tricor, Hydrochlorothiazide and Vytorin. This driver stated that he slept for six-and-a-half hours but woke up feeling drowsy and still felt drowsy when he left home fifteen minutes prior to the crash. He also stated that he was "inattentive."

The driver of V2, a fifty-seven-year-old female, was on her way to work from her home. She was well rested and familiar with her vehicle and route. She has high blood pressure and takes the medication Clonidine. This driver stated that she did not see V1 prior to the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's inadequate surveillance, inattention and drowsiness were associated factors in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)."