The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. The north/south roadway was one-way with one lane of travel, and controlled by a stop sign. The east/west roadway was two-way with one lane of travel in each direction and no traffic control device. The roadway was bituminous, straight and level. The speed limit was 48kmph (30mph), it was cloudy and the roadway was wet. The traffic flow was normal, and it was the afternoon hours of a weekday.

V1, a 2000 Honda Civic four door with one occupant, was traveling southbound on lane one. V2, a 1998 Lexus GS300 four door with two occupants, was traveling eastbound in lane one. At the intersection, the front of V1 contacted the left side of V2. V2 spun counter-clockwise and the right side contacted a light pole on the southeast corner of the intersection, and came to a final rest shortly after the second event. V1 came to a final rest approximately six meters after the impact with V2. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Honda Civic was driven by a 48 year-old female who reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. The Police stated that she was traveling southbound through the intersection when she struck V2.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical event was coded as an Unknown Reason because no interview was obtained. An Associated factor coded to this driver was a sightline restriction caused by a mini bus that was parked at the northwest corner of the intersection. The slick surface condition was coded as a roadway factor. The other possible Associated factors were coded unknown.

V2, the Lexus GS300 was driven by a 27 year-old male who reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. A two-year-old male occupant in a Child safety restraint also reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. The Police stated that he was traveling eastbound through the intersection at the time of the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path". The Critical Reason for the Critical event was not coded to this driver. An Associated factor coded to this driver was a sightline restriction caused by minibus that was parked at the northwest corner of the intersection. The slick surface condition was coded as a roadway related factor. The other possible Associated factors were coded unknown.