The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a high occupancy, high volume, and high-speed interstate highway. There were six southbound lanes with both right and left side paved emergency shoulders. There was a concrete barrier wall separating the southbound traffic from the northbound traffic. The road widths were a standard 3.7 meters and the emergency-paved shoulders were 3.5 meters. The road was straight and level. The conditions were cloudy and rainy on a weekday afternoon. The posted speed was 105 KMPH (65 MPH).

V1 was a 2007 Dodge Charger 4-door sedan that was traveling southbound in lane three when the traffic slowed down and the vehicle in front of V1 came to a stop in the lane. V2 was a 1999 Plymouth Voyager minivan that was traveling southbound in lane three when the driver had to come to a stop because the vehicle in front of her stopped in the lane. V3 was a 2006 Range Rover utility vehicle that was stopped in lane three due to backed up traffic due to the rainstorm. V1 was unable to stop in time and the front of V1 struck the rear of V2, pushing the front of V2 into the rear of V3. No one was injured and V1 and V2 were towed due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 40-year-old male who was on his way to meet a client for work. He stated that he was driving along at about 105 KMPH (65 MPH) in lane three following a non-contact truck. The truck changed lanes. It was then that the driver of V1 saw V2 stopped in his lane. The driver tried to hit the brakes but with the wet roads he was unable to stop in time. The driver was unable to make a lane change in time to avoid the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was other vehicle traveling in the same direction that was stopped in the lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was a driver error, traveling too fast to respond to unexpected actions of others. The driver was cited for the crash for failure to use due care and no proof of insurance. Associated factors coded to this driver include the rain, the wet roadway, and a sightline restriction caused by the non-contact truck that had initially been traveling in front of V1.

V2 was driven by a 33-year-old female who was on her way to pick up her children at school. She stated that she was driving southbound in lane three when the SUV in front of her just came to a complete stop. The driver was able to stop her van in time but once she stopped, the vehicle behind her (V1) hit her from behind causing her to hit the back of V3.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle traveling in the same direction while going at a higher rate of speed. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle, as she was not thought to have contributed to the crash. Associated factors coded to this driver include the rain and the wet roadway.

V3 was driven by a 59-year-old woman who was on her way from her work office to a business lunch. She stated in her interview that traffic was at a crawl due to the heavy rain and the traffic in front of her caused her to have to stop. The driver stated that she was stopped and was then hit from behind. The driver was not injured and her vehicle was not towed due to damages.

No Critical Pre-crash Event and no Critical Reason were coded to this vehicle, as it was not involved in the first harmful event. Associated factors coded to this driver include the rain and the wet roadway.