This two-vehicle intersection crash occurred at an urban three-legged intersection with amber and white overhead lighting. Northbound roadway is one-way with three lanes. It is straight and level absent of any traffic control signals. Westbound approach is straight with an uphill grade controlled by a stop sign. There is a gas station on the east side of the roadway with large overgrown shrubs on the southeast corner that causes a sightline obstruction. The west side of the roadway contains a large donut shop with two access driveways. Northbound speed limit it 56 kph (35 mph) while westbound is 40 kph (25 mph). Setting was evening hours on a dark, dry and clear weekend. Traffic flow was minimal at crash time.

V1 is a 2002 Mitsubishi Gallant, four-door with two occupants traveling northbound in lane one. V2 is a1991 Pontiac Firebird, two-door with four occupants traveling westbound in lane one. V2 had the intention to cross northbound lanes and enter the donut shop parking lot. V2 approached the intersection, slowed down but did not stop at the stop sign. The shrub on the southeast corner obstructed V2's view of V1. V2 entered the intersection without stopping and was struck on the left side by the front of V1 (Event 1). V1 left 9.7 meters (32 feet) of skid marks prior to impact. After impact, V1 deflected to the left and came to final rest facing northwest 1.4 meters (5 feet) from the impact point. V2 drove to the donut shop parking lot and came to final rest. V1 suffered disabling damage requiring tow; V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 24 year-old male who was not injured in this crash. On this night, himself and his wife enjoyed a nice dinner 10 minutes away and were on their way back to his grandmother's house to pick up their son and daughter. He said he was looking straight ahead, while his wife was talking on her cell phone to the grandmother letting her know they were on the way over. He said as he was passing in front of the gas station, V2 ran the stop sign from the right and entered into his path. He applied the brakes, locking them up, but that was all he could do. He braced the wheel and prepared for impact. He contacted the left side of V2. After impact his car spun counterclockwise, coming to rest at the impact point. He never saw V2 until it entered the intersection.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 is "other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path." The Critical Reason was "not coded to this driver." This driver is unemployed and admitted to having personal financial issues of his mind prior to the crash, an emotional factor. He has a newborn child at home that he says greatly affects his sleep schedule (Waking up at all hours of the night to care for it). He says he wakes up drowsy everyday and was likely fatigued on this night. This was only his third time driving this roadway since he's new to the area. He did admit the brakes were wore out and needed to be replace as soon as he finds a job, a tire deficiency factor.

The driver of V2 is an 18 year-old male who not injured in the crash. He and a buddy had just come from picking up two girlfriends at their apartment complex. They were heading to the doughnut shop to hang out with other friends in the parking lot. He said as he approached the stop sign, he looked left, saw nobody coming, so decelerated, but did not stop with the intent to cross over and enter the parking lot. He did admit that he didn't stop but only because he saw nobody coming from the left. Once he entered the intersection, V1 struck his left side door without notice. None of the other passengers saw V1 coming either and it scared everyone. He then drove into the parking lot and waited for police.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 is "this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event is "driver related factor- inadequate surveillance, looked but did not see." This driver did look left before entering the intersection, but failed to see V1. Talking with passengers and looking without seeing were both coded as recognition errors. Listening to the radio was a non-driving activity. This driver knew a stop sign existed at this intersection, but made a conscious decision to slow down, but not stop for it, an illegal maneuver. Crossing into the intersection with an obstructed view (shrubs) was another decision error. He only has four months driving experience, an experience related factor. The overgrown shrubbery on the southeast corner of the intersection was a sightline obstruction for this driver, although if you stop at the stop sign, you have a clear view of northbound traffic. Since the vehicle was unable to be inspected, its unknown if there were any contributing vehicle factors.