Case 2007-136

The crash occurred in the intersection of two high volume roadways divided by medians without positive barriers. The east/westbound road east of the intersection had six westbound lanes and three eastbound lanes. Lane one was a right turn only lane and lanes five and six were left turn only lanes. West of the intersection there were three westbound lanes and six eastbound lanes. The north/southbound road north of the intersection had two northbound lanes and four southbound lanes. Lane four was a left turn only lane and lane one was a right turn only lane. South of the intersection there were two southbound lanes and four northbound lanes. The asphalt roads were dry, straight and level. The east/westbound road had a posted speed limit of 72kmph/45mph. The north/southbound road had a posted speed limit of 48kmph/30mph. Traffic was controlled in all directions by overhanging controls on colors with pedestrian control and with protected left turn signals. The crash occurred on a weekend evening just before sunset while traffic flow was very congested under sunny skies. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, a 2002 Volvo V70 four-door station wagon with one occupant was traveling westbound in lane two. V2, a 1997 Nissan 240SX/SE two-door with one occupant was making a left turn from southbound lane four to eastbound lane three. V2 was in the process of turning with a protected left turn arrow when V1's front end struck the left side passenger area of V2. Neither driver took any evasive actions. After impact V1 continued traveling west and back to rest backing west approximately 30m west of impact. V2's rear yawed in a counter-clockwise rotation and the vehicle came to rest facing east in the intersection approximately 7m southwest of impact. Both vehicles were towed due to damage.

V1, the Volvo V70, was driven by a 35-year old female who received non-incapacitating injuries and was transported to a hospital. The driver who had already been transported to the hospital when the researcher arrived would not return the researcher's phone calls and did not respond to a written request for an interview hand delivered to her home. The police officer at the scene told the research that the driver appeared to be under the influence of alcohol and would be charged with DUI. The driver had told the officer that she had just left a restaurant less than a mile away. The officer also added that two witnesses had reported that V1 had run a red light at the intersection at the time of the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street turning into opposite direction. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was driver related, illegal maneuver (witnesses and the other driver verified that V1 ran a red light). Associated factors were assigned to V1 for driver, physical health due to the observed presence of alcohol verified by the medical report (BAC test result of .243); driver behavior, decision, illegal maneuver failed to stop for the traffic control device verified by witnesses on PAR; for other, vehicle - tire/wheel deficiency due to over sized tires and wheels; and for other, highway due to congested traffic.

V2, the Nissan 240SX/SE. was driven by a 41-year old male who received incapacitating injuries and was transported to a hospital. The driver reported that he had just left home driving to a nearby store traveling below the speed limit as he approached the intersection. He said he had a protected left turn arrow green light and had never stopped prior to entering the intersection. He said he never saw V1 and thus took no evasive actions before being struck.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle. Associated factors were assigned to V2 for driver behavior, recognition - inadequate surveillance, failed to look to side; for other, vehicle - tire/wheel deficiency due to over sized tires and wheels; and for other, highway due to congested traffic.