his is a two-vehicle rear-end crash that occurred in the number one northbound lane of a three-lane roadway divided by a continuous two-way center turn lane. There was one southbound lane and one northbound lane divided by a center turn lane. The speed limit on the roadway where the crash occurred is posted 56 kmph (35 mph). This was an mid-afternoon crash. The roadway was dry, constructed of asphalt and the sky was clear. The crash occurred at a pedestrian crosswalk at the south approach to a T- intersection with a two-lane feeder street. The intersection is in the sag between two downgrade elevations and level at that location.

Vehicle two (V-2), a 2006 Nissan Maxima four door with one occupant, was northbound in the number one lane. V2 was traveling north and saw a man walking west in the crosswalk. The driver of V-2 stopped at the crosswalk and allowed the pedestrian to cross. Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 a Nissan Maxima with two occupants, was traveling north in the number one lane behind V2. The driver of V1 looked right and saw a motorcycle police officer parked on the sidewalk. The driver of V1 was traveling 56 kmph (35 mph) and when she turned her head to look forward she saw that V2 stopped. The driver of V1 applied the brakes without lockup and struck the back of V2. V2 was propelled forward an estimated 1.5 meters (5 feet) and came to final rest astraddle of the crosswalk. V1 came to rest very near the point of impact and both were facing north. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene. The driver of V2 was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a seventy four (74) year-old female. The driver stated that she & her husband were traveling northbound. They topped a small hill and began down the other side when she observed a motorcycle police officer parked on the sidewalk to her right. When she turned her head forward she saw V2 stopped directly in front of her. She said she applied the brakes without lockup and struck the back of V2, which was then pushed forward a short distance into the crosswalk. The driver stated she was traveling 56 kmph (35 mph) prior to braking. Neither occupant was transported.

The driver of V2 was a (35) year old female. She stated she was traveling northbound in the number one lane near the bottom of the hill. She saw a pedestrian in the crosswalk going from east to west across the street. She brought her vehicle to a complete stop and waited for the pedestrian to clear. V2 was struck in the rear by V1. She never saw V1 approaching. The driver of V2 said her vehicle was pushed into the crosswalk and came to rest facing north. She was transported.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event was coded driver related factor: external distraction. The driver was distracted by the motorcycle police officer on the east sidewalk.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.