This three-vehicle crash occurred on a jersey barrier-divided, straight trafficway. The eastbound lanes are straight and consist of six lanes in the precrash area. The speed limit for this roadway is 97 kmph (60 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions. Traffic was congested at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 GMC Jimmy, was eastbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Jeep Liberty, was eastbound in lane one and vehicle three (V3), a 2003 GMC Savana (incomplete vehicle modified with large cargo area) was in front of V2. V2 and V3 decelerated due to traffic in front of them. V1 changed lanes to the right and the front struck the back of V2. V2 continued forward and the front struck the back of V3. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-nine-year-old male, was on his way home from work. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that he was watching the vehicles in lane one that he had to pass before he changed lanes. He stated that he saw V2 before he started his lane change but "I guess I misjudged the gap I had to get into the lane. "

The driver of V2, a thirty-five-year-old male, was on his way to school from his home. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route weekly.

The driver of V3, a thirty-five-year-old male, was traveling with a thirty-two-year-old male passenger. They were on their way home from work. He was healthy, well rested and comfortable with his vehicle and passenger. He travels this route weekly.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction while decelerating." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; external distraction." This driver's misjudgment (of the speed of V2 and the gap behind V2) was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."

The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded as "not involved first harmful event." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was "not coded to this vehicle."