The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a high occupancy, high volume, and high-speed interstate highway. There were five southbound lanes with both right and left side paved emergency shoulders. There were concrete wall barriers separating southbound traffic from northbound traffic. The road widths were a standard 3.7 meters and the emergency-paved shoulders were 3.5 meters. The road was straight and level. The conditions were wet and rainy on a weekday afternoon. The posted speed was 105 KMPH (65 MPH).

V1 was a 1995 Nissan 240 SX 2-door coupe that was traveling southbound in lane four. The driver was driving along at the posted speed limit when a non-contact van in front of him suddenly changes lanes to the left without a blinker or any warning. As soon as the van changed lanes, the driver of V1 saw that traffic in lane four had come to a stop due to the heavy rain and low visibility. The driver of V1 tried to hit the brakes and steer left to avoid hitting the back of the stopped traffic but ended up in lane five where he was hit on the left side front tire by V2, a 2002 Toyota Tacoma pickup that was traveling southbound in lane five. V2 hit the left front tire of V1 thus sending V1 back into lane four where it was then hit on the right rear side by V3, a 2004 Mazda 3 4-door sedan that was traveling in lane four. V1 was towed due to damages. V2 was towed due to damages and the driver was transported due to injury. V3 was towed due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1 and 80 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 21-year-old male. He reported that he was traveling in lane four following a van that suddenly changed lanes. As soon as the van changed lanes, he realized that traffic in his lane had come to a stop. The driver stated that since the roads were slippery from the heavy rain he was not able to stop in time. He ended up steering to the left and getting hit by V2 which then pushed him back into lane four where he was hit again by V3. The driver was cited for failure to use due care.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the left side of the travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as a driver error, incorrect evasive action. Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include following too closely to respond to the actions of others, unfamiliarity with the roadway, the weather conditions as it was raining, and the roads were wet and slick.

V2 was driven by a 45-year-old male who was traveling in the HOV lane, lane five. He stated that he saw out of the corner of his eye V1 come into his lane sideways. The driver hit his brakes but couldn't swerve out of his way as there was a concrete barrier wall to the left and he didn't want to hit that. V2 had front-end damage and the driver was transported due to injuries.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was another vehicle encroachment from the adjacent lane over the right lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors related to this driver were the wet road and the weather (rain).

V3 was driven by a 21-year-old female who was on her way from class to her part time job. She was driving along when she stated that she saw the black vehicle swerve into her lane from the left lane. She tried to stop in time but could not - she hit the right rear side of V1. The driver was not injured and her vehicle was not towed.

No Critical Pre-crash Event and no Critical Reason were coded to V3 because it was not involved in the first harmful event. Associated factors related to this driver were the wet road and the heavy rain.