The crash occurred on a two-way, 4-lane roadway divided by a curbed median, with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45mph). The straight, level, bituminous roadway crosses over a controlled access highway and the crash occurred at the intersection of the roadway and an exit ramp, which is controlled by an on-colors traffic signal. Conditions at the time of the weekend evening crash were dark, clear and dry.

V1, a 2002 Ford Taurus SES 4 door sedan driven by a 23-year-old female on her way home from breaking up with her boyfriend at his house, was northbound on the roadway in lane two. The driver was on the phone arguing with her boyfriend and never saw V2. V1 departed the lane to the right and the front right corner of V1 struck the back left corner of V2, who had been stopped in lane one at the red traffic signal. V1 crossed the intersection, the left side tires struck the curb on the left side of the roadway, the left front tire came off of the vehicle and the left rear tire was flattened. V1 came to rest on the curbed median facing north. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver of V1 denied injuries at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 2002 Saturn Vue sports utility vehicle driven by a 33-year-old female on her way home from dinner at a local restaurant, had been stopped in lane one at the red traffic signal for about one minute. The signal turned green and the driver of V2 took her foot off of the brake and began to accelerate. The back of V2 was struck by the front of V1. The driver of V2 stated that she was looking at the traffic signal and never saw V1 prior to the impact. V2 came to rest in the gore of the roadway and an entrance ramp on the right facing north. V2 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver of V2 denied injuries at the scene.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to the driver of V1 was other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with lower steady speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded was a driver related factor of internal distraction while talking on the phone. Contributing factors coded to the driver of v1 were alcohol use below the legal limit, emotional factor-driver irritated/upset with her boyfriend, thinking about her concerns, and inadequate surveillance-failed to look far enough ahead. Associated factors coded were for side effects of headache, nervousness, anxiety, sleeplessness, drowsiness and tiredness for the driver's two prescribed Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors. Precautions state that alcohol use may increase side effects of medication. The driver stated that she took her medications that evening instead of in the morning as recommended. She normally only sleeps 2-4 hours each night and is 'fatigued'.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to the driver of V2 was other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. An Associated Factor coded to this driver was strenuous recreational activities for her daily training regimen as a triathlon athlete.