The crash occurred on a two-way, two-lane, straight, rural road with an un-posted speed limit of 80 kmh (55 mph). Conditions at the time of the weekday dawn crash were cloudy and the slag/gravel roadway was snow covered and icy.

V1 a 2000 Oldsmobile Alero 4 door sedan driven by a 17 year-old female on her way from home to school was southbound on the road traveling at about 40 mph. The driver stated that as she came over the top of a hill driving in the center of the road, she saw a school bus traveling northbound in the opposite direction on the road. The driver stated that she steered to the right to get back on to her own side of the road and the rear of the car slid to the left. The driver steered back to the left and the rear of v1 began to slide to the right. V1 fishtailed three times, rotated counterclockwise, left the road on the left side and the front right corner of v1 struck a tree 50 cm in diameter. V1 rotated counterclockwise and bounced off of the tree and came to rest in the road in the southbound lane facing southwest. The fully restrained driver and front right passenger refused treatment at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to the driver of v1 was 'this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side.' The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded was 'poor directional control-failing to control vehicle with skill ordinarily expected.' Contributing factors coded were 'icy road conditions,' and 'decision error' as the driver remained in the center of the road on the crest of the hill when she could not see traffic on the other side, where a school bus was in the northbound lane. Additional factors coded were 'inexperience' as the driver had only been licensed for thirteen months and 'in a hurry' as the driver was running late for the start of school. Associated factors coded were 'fatigue' as the driver stated that she just ended a hectic week with a school play, and 'low tire pressure' for the right side tires.