This two-vehicle crash occurred on a five-lane, straight, level roadway. The westbound lanes consist of two through lanes and a left turn lane. There is a driveway on the right (north) side of this roadway. The speed limit for this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Mitsubishi Gallant, was leaving the driveway, turning left (east). Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Mercury Grand Marquis, was westbound in lane two. Non-contact vehicles were stopped in westbound lane one. As V1 crossed the westbound lanes, the left side was struck by the front of V2. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, an eighteen-year-old female, was traveling with a thirteen-year-old female passenger. They had just left a gas station and were on their way to a store. This driver was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle and passengers. She travels this route weekly. This driver stated that the non-contact vehicle stopped to allow her to enter the roadway. She saw V2 but thought she "had enough room to go."

The driver of V2, a sixty-nine-year-old male, was traveling with a sixty-six-year-old female, a thirty-five-year-old male and a five-year-old male. This driver was healthy, well rested and comfortable with his vehicle and passengers. He travels this route weekly. This driver stated that he did not see V1 until it was almost in front of him. He applied the brakes and steered right in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other; leaving driveway, turning left." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as " driver related factor; misjudgment of gap or other's speed."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from driveway, turning into opposite direction." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's inadequate surveillance was an associated factor in this crash.