This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The north/south roadway is straight and undivided. The northbound approach has a five percent uphill grade and consists of one through lane, a left turn lane and a right turn lane. The roadway west of the intersection is undivided, straight and level. The eastbound lanes consist of two through lanes, a left turn lane and a right turn lane. The speed limit on these roadways is 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Suzuki Esteem, was stopped northbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 Toyota Camry, was eastbound in lane two. V1 entered the intersection, turning right. The front of V2 struck the left side of V1. V2 continued eastbound and the right front tire/wheel struck the curb. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-eight-year-old male, was on his way home from work with a forty-six-year-old male passenger. He was well rested and comfortable with his vehicle and passenger. This driver has diabetes and takes an unspecified medication for high blood pressure. This driver stated that he thought that V2 was turning right at the intersection and attempted to make his turn.

The driver of V2, a thirty-one-year-old female, had left work and was running an errand. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route weekly. This driver stated that she did not see V1 prior to the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning right at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into same direction. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor was this driver's failure to look to either side ahead.