This three-vehicle daytime collision occurred heading east on a five lane roadway. In the area of the crash the roadway has five lanes of travel, two eastbound and three westbound. Traffic flow controlled by on-colors traffic signal. The road is asphalt paved is level with a curve to the north. The speed limit for the roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). At the time of the crash the sky was clear and the roadway was wet with morning dew.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Honda Civic hatchback driven by a thirty seven (37) year old male with his dog, was heading eastbound erratically across several lanes. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Volkswagen Passat station wagon driven by a thirty seven (37) year old male was stopped at the intersection in lane two of the eastbound lanes. Vehicle three (V3), a 2007 Suzuki Forenza sedan driven by a fifty one (51) year old male, was stopped ahead of V2 at the signal in lane two of the eastbound lanes. V1, according to the witness had crossed over the left lane while turning onto the roadway. Then the driver over-corrected and left the roadway on the right side. The driver then re-entered the roadway to the left and again departed the eastbound lanes into the westbound lanes. V1 then re-entered the eastbound lanes into lane one before coming back over the lane line to the left and hitting the rear of V2 with the front of V1. The front of V2 was then pushed into the back of V3. Both V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. V3 was not towed due to damage. No driver was transported due to injury. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: aggressive driving behavior. The driver was late for work on his morning commute and driving in an erratic manner with frequent lane changes and roadway departure/ returns. He had concerns about work. Poor directional control was an associative factor as was fatigue. At first the driver stated he had no sleep in the 24 hour preceding the crash, then changed his story to some sleep. He said his average nightly sleep was just 4 hours..

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment, From adjacent lane (same direction) over right lane line. The critical reason is not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason is not coded to this vehicle.