This single-vehicle crash occurred in a construction zone. Before the construction zone, the roadway is undivided with two lanes of travel, one lane in each direction, eastbound and westbound. This roadway is straight and level, with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). "Roadway Closed" signs and temporary traffic barricades were present approximately 400 meters (1,312 feet) west of the crash site. This crash occurred in the early evening hours on a weekend with light traffic flow. The roadway was icy with a light covering of snow and had not been maintained for normal traffic since it was in a construction area. The roadway was dark with unlighted conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Toyota 4-Runner with two occupants, was traveling eastbound in lane one, approaching the construction zone. The driver of V1 saw that the roadway was ending and that there was a dirt embankment ahead, so she started tapping on the brakes to decelerate and avoid an impact. With the icy roadway, however, it was not in time to avoid a collision and the front of V1 impacted the dirt embankment. V1 traveled over the dirt embankment and continued eastbound for approximately two meters. V1 came to final rest with its rear wheels positioned over a trench dug for the construction, facing east. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1, a thirty-four-year-old female, was driving from work and going to a friend's house. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route weekly, but had not driven it since the construction started. She is in good health and takes no medications. She stated that she saw the "road closed" signs posted on the temporary traffic baricades on the roadway, but they weren't pushed together preventing access, so she thought it was OK to continue driving. She stated that she was traveling at about 72 kmph (45 mph), which is contrary to the police reported estimated vehicle speed of 56 kmph (35 mph).

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; end departure. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: too fast for conditions (too fast to be able to stop on ice and snow). Conversing with passenger, illegal maneuver (proceeded to drive with "road closed" signs present), construction work zone, and slick surface (low friction value due to icy condition) were coded as associative factors.