The crash occurred in the lane one of a four-lane westbound highway with a wide grass median dividing the westbound lanes from the three eastbound. There was a 100 meters long guardrail bordering the right side of the westbound road. The crash occurred immediately following the entrance ramp located on the north side of lane one. The entrance ramp was right curving with a 2% uphill slope. The posted speed limit was 89 kmph (55 mph) for the westbound lanes and there was a yield sign present for the entrance ramp traffic merging onto the highway. During the hours of 6 am and 9 am during the weekdays merging traffic from the entrance ramp can continue forward in lane one (shoulder) without merging into on-coming traffic in the adjacent left lane. The shoulder was a designated travel lane between the hours of 6 am and 9 am Monday thru Friday. This was a straight, level bituminous road. The skies were dark and clear during the weekday at dawn. Traffic was heavy during the early morning commuting hours and further congested due to an abandoned vehicle in lane one, abandoned prior 6 am.

V1 a 1999 Chevrolet Tahoe SUV was traveling west entering the highway. V2 a 1998 Ford Taurus was stopped in lane one behind an abandoned vehicle, V3 a 1990 Toyota Corolla. V3 was illegally parked in lane one which was used as a travel lane during rush hour. V2 as it came off the entrance ramp saw V3 and stopped as it was waiting to merge into traffic. V1 as it came off the entrance ramp into lane one hit the back of V2. V2's front then hit V3's back, this sent V3 rolling off the road and it hit a tree. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was a 1999 Chevrolet Tahoe SUV was driven by a 23 year-old male. The driver stated that he had left home ten minutes prior to the crash, on his way to work. V1 had traveled from the entrance ramp, intending to travel west in lane one until he saw the vehicles ahead, stopped in lane one, he decided to merge into an open space in the adjacent left lane (lane two). Unfortunately, a vehicle in lane three, merged right into lane two, blocking V1's path. Unable to merge left the driver of V1 applied his brakes, although V1 had anti-lock brakes, V1 skidded into the rear of V2 with the front of V1, coming to rest in lane one, ten meters west of the crash site, facing west. He was unable to steer to the left due to the traffic congestion in lane two and unable to steer to the right due to the guardrail bordering the right side of lane one. The driver was uninjured.

The Pre-Crash Event for V1 was "Other motor vehicle in lane, stopped." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was "Too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others." Associated factors for the driver of V1 include; seeing the vehicles stopped in lane ahead, attempted to merge into left lane two until vehicle in lane three merged right blocking V1's path, vehicle abandoned in travel lane blocking traffic in lane one and heavy commuter traffic.

V2, a 1998 Ford Taurus was driven by a 33 year-old male. The driver of V2 stated that he had left home a few minutes prior to the crash on his way to work. He had also traveled from the entrance ramp, intending to travel west in lane one, unfortunately, an abandoned vehicle (V3) was blocking the westbound lane one, forcing him to stop behind the abandoned vehicle till he was able to merge into the adjacent lane two. He had been stopped behind V3 for ten seconds when he noticed rapidly approaching headlights appear in his rearview mirror. Suddenly his vehicle lurched forward, from the rear impact by V1, forcing V2 forward crashing into the rear of V3 with the front of V2. After the collisions with V1 and V3, V2 continued forward and left, out-of-control, traveling across lanes two and three, coming to rest in lane three facing southwest. The driver was transported due to injuries.

The Pre-Crash Event for V2 was "Other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed" The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors for the driver of V2 include; vehicle abandoned in travel lane and heavy commuter traffic.

V3 was a 1990 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan left unoccupied in lane one facing west, 35 meters west of the entrance ramp. The vehicle was locked and left in park. The force of the rear-end collision from V2 caused V3 to travel forward (west) 70 meters to the end of the guardrail, where V3 veered right off the roadside, down an embankment, before coming to rest after sideswiping a tree with the right side of V3 facing west southwest 116 meters from the crash site.

The Pre-Crash Event for V3 was "not involved in the first harmful event." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was not coded to this vehicle.