This crash occurred on a roadway with 5 lanes of travel 2-north and 2-south with a left turn lane. The speed was posted at 64 kmph (40 mph) the roadway was straight level asphalt. It was a clear day the roadway was dry.

As vehicle #1 a 2002 Buick Park Avenue sat facing west in the restaurant entrance lane waiting to pull onto the roadway to travel south. The driver was distracted by something in the vehicle upon looking back up at the traffic the driver noticed a vehicle stopped in lane #1 of the northbound traffic way with its right turn signal on waiting to turn into the restaurant. The driver of vehicle #1 then pulled onto the roadway across the path of a northbound 1997 Oldsmobile Cutlass in lane #2. Vehicle #1 was then contacted at the left drivers door rotating it counter clockwise. It then traveled back to the east side of the roadway to come to final rest on snow that had been plowed up at the side of the driveway. Vehicle #2 rotated counter clockwise to face northwest in lane #2 for final rest. The driver of vehicle #1 was transported to a local trauma unit due to injuries. The driver of vehicle #2 was not injured. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 20 year-old female that states she is in good health and is taking no medications at this time drove vehicle #1. She also stated that she does not wear corrective lenses. She stated that she had just come from a class and had had lunch with her grandmother. She stated that after lunch she was going to her grandmother's home to visit. She stated as she was leaving the restaurant and was going to pull onto the roadway a large SUV pulled up and stopped in lane #1 to turn into the restaurant. She stated that as she entered the roadway and crossed lane #2 of the northbound lanes she noticed a vehicle traveling towards her. She stated that she accelerated and steered right to try to avoid the crash but it was too late. She stated that she does not remember anything after contact until she was in the hospital.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for vehicle #1 was coded “this vehicle traveling. turning left at intersection”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded driver related factor recognition error “inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see)”. The associated factors to this driver where that the driver was distracted and her view was partially blocked by the large SUV wanting to pull into the parking lot.

A 21 year-old male stated that he is in good health and is taking no medications at this time drove vehicle #2. He also stated that he does wear contact lenses for myopic (nearsightedness). He stated that he was test-driving the vehicle he was driving at the time of the crash. He stated he had only driven about a mile on the roadway and was traveling in lane #2 listening to the vehicle and how it handled. He stated he noticed the vehicle stopped in lane #1 waiting to turn right into the restaurant parking lot. He stated that the next thing he saw was a white vehicle in his lane traveling across into the southbound lanes. He stated that he had no time to react and contacted the vehicle at the driver's front side. Ha stated it looked as if the vehicle was going to leave the scene so he turn to look for what type of vehicle it was but the vehicle just turn in a large turn and traveled back to the east curb and drove up on the snow bank to final rest. He stated the vehicle he was driving came to final rest in its original lane. He stated he was not injured in the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for vehicle #2 was coded “other vehicle encroachment from driveway turning into opposite direction”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The associated factors to this driver was that he was distracted by the fact that it was the first time driving this vehicle and was on a test drive. The driver was listening to the vehicles sounds and the feel of the vehicle.