The crash occurred on a north/south roadway with small business and fast food establishments on the east side. The roadway had three northbound lanes and three southbound lanes divided by a raised curb and grass median. This was a straight, level section of the roadway in both directions. The bituminous roadway had a posted speed of 64 mph (40 mph) (PAR incorrectly reported the posted speed, direction and location of V1's final rest). It was early afternoon on a weekend. The roadway was wet and the sky was cloudy with light snow flurries. It was a heavily traveled road but traffic was light at the time. There was a traffic light without pedestrian crossing approximately twenty meters south of the crash site.

V1, a 1991 Ford Aerostar minivan, was driven by a 41-year-old male. He stated that he had a beer at his brother's home nine miles north of the accident and was on his way home at 56 kmph (35 mph). Prior to this crash, V1 had rear-ended another vehicle. The driver of V1 stated that he had stopped to talk to the other driver, who would not talk with him. The driver returned to his vehicle and left. He continued to travel south in lane three but when he attempted to brake for a red light ahead, the brakes failed to respond. The driver steered left to avoid the vehicle in front of him. V1 traveled over the left lane line and onto the cement and grass median, knocking down a small tree. V1 then departed the median on the left side and became airborne, leapt over lanes two and three in the northbound direction, and struck the left rear portion of V2, which was traveling in northbound lane one. Following this impact, V1 rotated in a counterclockwise direction, and its right side tires struck the curb. V1 tripped on the curb and rolled over one-quarter turn onto its right side. V1 came to final rest on its right side on the roadside, facing in a northwest direction. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 2004 Cadillac Deville four-door sedan, was driven by a 31-year old male. V2 was traveling northbound in lane one at a speed of approximately 72 kmph (45 mph). The driver stated that when V1 jumped the median from the southbound lane three he attempted to steer right over the right curb in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid impact. The collision caused V2 to spin counterclockwise 360 degrees before coming to final rest. The driver was transported due to possible injuries.

Witnesses one stated that he was traveling behind V1. Witness 1 stated that V1 had first rear-ended another vehicle one mile north of the final event. V1 then attempted to flee the scene at a speed of about 113 kmph (70 mph) with the other vehicle pursuing V1, traveling in lane two, in an attempt to read the license number. V1 moved to lane three in an attempt to pass another vehicle, then went onto the median on the left side, traveling 35 meters, knocking down a small tree. V1 flew over the northbound lanes and collided into V2, which was traveling in lane one at a speed of 56 kmph (35 mph).

Witness four (the driver of the vehicle that V1 had previously struck) told the same story at Witness one. Witness four added that he did not track V1 prior to the first event. His vehicle was stopped at a signal when V1 struck him from behind. V1 then fled the scene. He then followed V1 in an attempt to read his tags.

Witnesses two and three were traveling together in the northbound lane two several car lengths behind V2. They both stated that V2 braked, then sped up in an attempt to avoid the collision with V1. V2 had been traveling at about 72 kmph (45 mph) in lane one when V1 became airborne over the median straight at V2, striking the left side of V2 with the front portion of V1. V2 continued to travel forward and V1 flipped end over front, coming to rest on its right side on the east roadside facing west.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was "Aggressive driving behavior." Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include driver under the influence of alcohol, speeding, an exterior distraction, poor directional control, being in a hurry, and the weather (snow). The driver stated that brake failure caused the crash, but this was discounted.

No Critical Pre-Crash Event and no Critical Reason was coded for V2 because V2 was not involved in the first harmful event (V1's impact with the tree). The only associated factor coded to V2 was the weather (snow).