This crash occurred in the afternoon of a weekday in the middle of an urban "T" intersection. The intersection was composed of a heavily traveled, two-lane north/south roadway intersected by a two-lane, east/west roadway. A stop sign controlled the eastbound traffic and was located on the southwest corner. The posted speed limit for the both bituminous roadways was 42 kmph. (25 mph) At the intersection, southbound traffic had to pass under an interstate overpass just prior to entering the intersection from the north. The wall to this overpass restricted the view for westbound and southbound traffic. Both streets were straight and level roadways that were covered in slush and snow. Traffic was considerably lighter than usual at this intersection due to the morning snowstorm.

V1, a 1999 Toyota Camry with two occupants, was eastbound in lane one approaching the intersection. V2, a 1998 Freightliner truck with one occupant and a large crane attached to it, was southbound in lane one approaching the same intersection. V3, a 1993 Pathfinder Nissan was legally parked on the west curb on the south leg of the intersection. V4, a 2006 Dodge RAM 1500-Quad was legally parked directly in front of V3. V5, a 2001 Mercedes ML320 was legally parked in front of a vehicle that was parked between V4 and V5. All parked vehicles were unoccupied. As V1 applied his brakes, to stop for the stop sign it began to skid on the slushy roadway and entered the intersection. V2, having no traffic control devices, entered the intersection from under the overpass, and was struck by the front of V1 on its right rear axle causing disabling damage to V2's undercarriage. After the initial impact, V2 continued through the intersection, brakes engaged, where the rear right corner struck V3, V4 and V5. V1, V2, and V3, a legally parked vehicle, all required towing due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 22-year old male, was uninjured in the crash. He advised that he drove this street daily and on this particular day he and his girlfriend were on their way to purchase a new bed for their baby. He and his passenger were talking about this subject at the time of the crash. He advised that he may have been traveling a little bit too fast, but thought that he would be able to stop for the stop sign. He stated that when he applied his brakes, he lost all traction with the roadway. He had taken driver's education in high school and was very comfortable operating his vehicle both in general, and in adverse weather conditions.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle loss of control due to poor road conditions (icy, snow-covered roads). The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver related factor - traveling too fast for conditions. While stopping distances were significantly increased due to the poor roadway conditions, had V1 driver approached the intersection with less velocity, he would have been able to come to a controlled stop at the stop sign. Associated factors coded to V1 driver include an internal distraction as the driver was engaged in conversation while driving, as well as slick road conditions and a view obstruction from the wall that supported the overpass.

The driver of V2, a 47-year old male was uninjured in the crash. The driver stated that the first time that he saw V1 was as soon as he passed the underpass. He believed that V2 must have been doing well over the speed limit as it approached the intersection. He hit his brakes but knew that he could not avoid V1. The force of impact caused his truck to rotate slightly and strike V3, V4, and V5. After these impacts the driver managed to pull his vehicle into the shoulder lane along the east curb along the northbound travel lane.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other motor vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, turning into same direction. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors include the slick road conditions and a view obstruction caused by the wall that supported the overpass.