This crash occurred in the evening of a weekday in the northbound lanes of a divided interstate. The north/south interstate consisted of two lanes in each direction divided by a grass median. The crash occurred near a rest area exit ramp, which added a third lane to the northbound lanes. The bituminous roadway was dry, straight, and level with a posted speed limit of 113 kmph (70 mph). The weather was blowing snow with whiteout conditions and the roadway was covered with black ice.

V1, a 2005 Jeep Grand Cherokee with one occupant, was northbound in lane two. The driver noticed the vehicles ahead tapping their brakes. As V1 decelerated the driver felt the vehicle start to rotate clockwise. The driver counter steered and the vehicle began rotating counter-clockwise. V1 rotated approximately 180 degrees and slid off the right (east) side of the roadway and struck a no parking sign. V1 then slid down an embankment and rolled left one-quarter turn onto the driver's side. V1 came to final rest on its side on the right roadside of the interstate. V1 was towed from the scene due to vehicle damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1, a 31-year-old male was uninjured in the crash. He claimed to be in good health and taking no medications at the time of the crash. The driver does wear corrective lenses for a myopic (near-sighted) condition. He stated that he was driving home from work on a roadway he drives weekly and was surprised by the whiteout-like conditions that were occurring at this time of the year. He stated that as the snow cleared a little he could see the vehicles ahead braking. He stated he let up off the accelerator and his vehicle started to rotate. He then counter-steered and the vehicle rotated quickly the other way and he lost control. He stated after the vehicle came to final rest he climbed out of the vehicle and called 911.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle control loss due to poor road condition (puddle, pothole, ice, etc.). The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as weather related, other weather related condition sudden heavy blowing snow (whiteout condition). Associated factors to this driver were the long work hours. Driving to fast for conditions and the black ice covered roadways.