The two vehicle crash occurred in the un-lighted, T-intersection of a rural, 2-lane, 2-way, gravel onto bituminous roadway controlled by a stop sign where it intersected an east-west bituminous, 2-lane, 2-way, level, non-controlled roadway where it curved to the right. At the time of the weekday, early morning crash, it was dark, clear and the roadway was dry. The posted speed limit for the uncontrolled roadway was 89 kmph (55 mph).

V1, a 1998 Eagle Talon occupied by a 16 year-old male driver and a 15 year-old male passenger, was southbound, stopped, at the stop sign intending to turn left (east) at the intersection described above. V2, a 2007 Harley-Davison motorcycle solely occupied by the 41 year-old male driver, was west bound in lane 1 of the roadway described above approaching the same intersection. V1 turned left across the path of V2. The driver of V2 saw V1 pull across his lane and steered left and braked in an attempt to avoid V1. The front of v2 struck the left side of V1. V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest on the eastbound shoulder facing north-northwest. V2 came to rest on the south side of the eastbound lane facing southwest. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 stated that he and his brother were on their way to the first day of school. They had left early so as to get an idea of how long a drive it would be in the future. He said he was stopped at the stop sign for at least 10 seconds and looked both ways before initiating his left turn but did not see V2 coming from his left. He said he was familiar with the intersection but not at that time of day.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle turning left at intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was "inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see)". Some contributing factors on the part of v1 include the driver's inexperience with that intersection at that time of day and his being an inexperienced driver overall. A contributing factor for v1 was that he did not realize that caution was required (as it was the first day of school in the area). Also, the driver's daily sleep pattern changed to adjust to the first day of school and that routine.

The driver of V2 stated that he was westbound at about 55 mph approaching the curve/intersection with his headlight and driving lights on, taking a route to work that he uses daily. He saw V1 stopped at the intersection and then saw v1 pull out. He thought v1 hesitated and might stop so he swerved left and braked but did not want to "lay the bike down" and hit V1 with the side of his motorcycle thus injuring one of his legs. He said he was on time and was not in a hurry. He was also an experienced motorcycle operator and was properly licensed for the vehicle.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into the opposite direction". The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle.