This two-vehicle crash occurred at an intersection. The road is a 3-lane (one way traffic) asphalt roadway from north to south. It is a two lane (two-way traffic) undivided roadway from east to west. The speed limit is 48 kph (30 mph) for both roadways. The west-east traffic has a stop sign. The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash. It was early afternoon hours on a weekday and there was medium traffic on the roadways.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Chevrolet S-10 Blazer with one occupant, was traveling east in the first lane of traffic approaching the intersection of both roadways. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Honda CR-V with one occupant, was traveling south in the first lane. At the intersection, the front of V2 struck the left side of V1. V1 rotated clockwise and moved to the southeast corner of the intersection. It partially departed the roadway and came to rest facing southeast. V2 rotated clockwise after the impact and came to rest within the intersection. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 52-year old female drove V1, the 2001 Chevrolet S-10 Blazer. She told the researcher she did not have any memory about the crash due to a head injury suffered. She takes unspecified medication for high blood pressure and aspirin for her heart. She said she was heading from a doctor's appointment at a nearby hospital to a nursing home for her mother. The driver said she was not thinking about any particular concerns despite the stated medical concerns of her mother. She could not recall her latest work schedule or total hours worked the previous week. She works flexible hours at her job as a realtor. She did not work on that day.

The critical pre crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling-crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical event was coded: driver related factor - inadequate surveillance. This driver failed to look to the left prior to entering the intersection.

A 36-year old female, who reported light injuries, drove V2, the 2000 Honda CR-V. She only spoke Spanish and could not be interviewed at the scene. Her spouse declined an interview later. No information is available for this driver.

The critical pre-crash event was coded: other vehicle encroachment-from crossing street, across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.