This single vehicle crash occurred off the right side of a north/south roadway near a four-way urban intersection. The north/south roadway was undivided with two lanes in each direction and no traffic control devices. The secondary east/west road was controlled by stop signs. The eastbound roadway was straight and level. The northbound approach was straight with a positive 3.3 percent uphill grade. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph) for all roadways. Setting was morning hours on a weekend. Conditions were daylight, clear and dry with light traffic flow.

V1 was a 2004 Ford Focus four-door sedan with three occupants traveling westbound in lane one. V1 approached the four-legged intersection with the intention to turn right and travel north. V1 failed to stop for the traffic control device. V1 made a wide right turn crossing the double yellow line, entering into southbound travel lanes. V1 then steered right, re-entering into the northbound lanes. V1 departed the road to the right, contacting a large crape myrtle tree with its right front plane (Event 1). The crape myrtle tree acted as a ramp, causing V1 to climb-over its root ball and subsequently overturn (two-quarter turns) about its left axis and come to final rest in the roadway on its top facing north. V1's rollover distance was 3.2 meters (10.5 feet) toward the west. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1 was a 32 year-old male who suffered minor injuries and was transported from the scene for treatment. He reported that he spent the night at his sister's house around the corner from the crash scene. He woke up that morning and packed his sister's car with his belonging to move to a new apartment. He, his sister and niece got in the car and they departed for his new apartment. He had never driven his sister's car before and reported the steering wheel pulling to the right. As they approached the intersection where they were turning right, the driver claimed the steering wheel locked up. He was unable to steer the vehicle. He said he went straight through the intersection and was heading toward a house on the opposite side of the road. He "wrenched" the wheel to the right to avoid hitting the house, because he was unsure if it was occupied or not. When he wrenched the wheel to the right, he claimed to break the steering column, causing the vehicle to aim toward a tree on the right side of the road. He said that while traveling at 16 kmph (10 mph), his vehicle departed the road to the right, and the tree acted as a ramp, causing his car to turn over and land on its top. All his belonging inside the vehicle shifted during the impact. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "Poor directional control, failure to control vehicle with skill ordinarily expected" - a driver error. This driver claimed that the steering column and suspension locked up prior to the first event. An inspection of V1 revealed a cracked steering link near the radiator, but it appeared to have been caused during the collision with the tree. Police on-scene noticed the crack also, but also felt it was caused by the tree collision and rollover. Due to a lack of physical evidence on-scene, it is unclear whether a steering problem played a role in this crash or not. This was the driver's first time driving this vehicle as well as the first time driving on this roadway. He did report the steering wheel pulling to the right, but inspection of the vehicle only showed an inadequate amount of tire pressure in the left rear tire. Although having a suspended driver's license, this driver reported driving 160 miles road trip daily to his job. A driver record history through DMV shows 1 other crash for this driver 10 years ago. An illegal maneuver was coded because the driver failed to stop for the stop sign. There were no roadway or weather related factors in this crash.