This crash occurred in the intersection of two similar roadways, both being two-lane, two-way, non-divided asphalt rural roadways with a posted speed limit of 89 Kmph (55 Mph). The north/south roadway had a flashing yellow beacon. The east/west roadway had a flashing red beacon, a stop sign and a sign below that said 'crossroad traffic does not stop'. This crash occurred during daylight hours, and there were no adverse conditions present at the time of the crash.

V1 a 1996 Chrysler Intrepid was stopped, facing westbound in the right curb lane. V2 a 2005 International straight truck was traveling southbound in the right curb lane. V1 proceed through the intersection and came into contact with V2. V1's front left was hit by the front of V2. A while after the driver of V1 had exited the vehicle, V1's engine burst into flames. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 a 18 year-old female stated that she came to the stop sign controlled intersection, and came to a complete stop. She then stated that she saw V2, but thought that it was a four way stop, so she proceeded to cross through the intersection. After talking with her boyfriend he stated that she was not familiar with the roadway and that she was also talking with him on her cell phone.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded for V1 is "this vehicle traveling, passing through an intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded for V1 is "driver related, internal distraction."

The driver of V2 a 26 year-old male stated that he had just delivered his last load to a store and was on his way back to work to complete his day. He then stated that as he was approaching the intersection that he saw V1 start to cross in front of him. He stated that he hit his brakes and steered to the left to avoid V1 but could not.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded for V2 is "other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street across path." V2 was not assigned a Critical Reason.