This crash occurred at an intersection controlled by electronic traffic lights. The roadway is asphalt. The speed was posted at 72 kmph (45 mph) It was dark and not lighted. The weather was cloudy it had just stopped raining. The roadway was wet. The East West roadway was straight and level. The north/south roadway was level. The roadway had a curve to the right traveling south. The radius of curve was 1125m.

As vehicle 1 a 1991 Geo Tracker was traveling east in lane two of the roadway the driver traveled through the red light being contacted at the left rear side of the vehicle, by vehicle 2 a 2003 Chevrolet S-10 pick-up. After contact vehicle 1 rotated 180 degrees counterclockwise then traveled onto the southeast curb to final rest. Vehicle 2 rotated counterclockwise to come to final rest facing southeast blocking lane 2 of the north bound lanes. The Driver of vehicle 1 was transported to the local trauma unit due to injuries the passenger was not injured in the crash. The driver of vehicle 2 was not injured in the crash. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 16 year-old female that drove vehicle 1 stated she is in good health and taking no medications at this time. She did state that she wears corrective lenses for myopic-near sightedness and she was wearing her lenses at the time of the crash. She said that she and the passenger where on their way to a restaurant to meet a friend that was going to help her get a job. The driver stated that she was not comfortable with the vehicle. From the day her grandmother had bought the vehicle for her it had many problems. They had stopped at the gas station and the battery wire fell off. Her friend reconnected it for her. The wiper blade on the driver's side had come off and her passenger helped her put it back on. It was not clearing the windshield very good. She also stated the headlights were not working properly. She stated that she was turning them from high to low as she came to traffic on the roadway. As she came to the intersection she put her lights on low and had looked down to the instrument panel area to see if they were on low beam as she looked back up she noted the traffic light was red and knew it was to late and tried to apply the brake. Her vehicle was hit just behind the driver's door, that is all she remembers of the crash.

The passenger of vehicle 1 stated that he had helped the driver fix her vehicle several days prior to the day of the crash. As they traveled east on the roadway the drivers grandmother was calling on the cell phone. He answered the call for the driver. He stated as they came to the intersection he dropped the cell-phone on the floor of the vehicle. The driver was looking at him trying to retrieve the cell-phone and ran the red light. He stated he noticed V2 coming from the left and braced for the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for vehicle 1 was coded “this vehicle traveling crossing over (passing through) intersection”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded driver related factor recognition error “internal distraction”. The associated factors to this driver were the inexperience driver, she had only been driving on her own for 2 mouths. And the fact of the poor condition of the vehicle. She was talking to the passenger and watching him try to find the cell phone he had dropped on the floor of the vehicle as they entered the intersection on a red light.

A 55 year-old male that drove vehicle 2, he stated he is in good health and is taking no medications at this time. He did state he wears corrective lenses for astigmatism. He had gone to the store to pick up some things for the household. He was traveling south in lane 2 approaching the intersection. He saw he had the green light as he started to enter the intersection he saw the vehicle coming from the right and saw it was not going to stop. He stated he applied his brakes but because the roadway was wet from the rain his vehicle just slid into the left rear side of the eastbound vehicle. He stated that after rotating counter clockwise to final rest he got out of his vehicle to check on the driver of the other vehicle and called 911.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for vehicle 2 was coded “other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The associated factors to this driver were the wet roadway and the not lighted intersection.

The witness's stated they were on the east side of the intersection in the left turn lane at the time of the crash. They stated the eastbound vehicle looked as if it was not slowing for the red light and traveled into the intersection to be hit at the left rear side of the vehicle. They stated they did not see brake lights on the eastbound vehicle but the male witness stated he did see the red glow of the brake of the southbound vehicle before it hit vehicle 1.