This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-way intersection with traffic controls. There are three lanes on the west side for eastbound travel, one right turn lane, one through lane and one left-turn lane. The east side of the intersection for westbound travel has three lanes, one right-turn lane, one through lane and one left-turn lane. This was a straight, downhill for eastbound, uphill for westbound, bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 80 kmph (50 mph). This was early morning during rush hour traffic on a weekday. The sky was clear and the road was dry.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Audi A6 with one occupant, was eastbound in lane three, the left-turn lane turning left. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Toyota Tundra pickup with two occupants, was westbound in lane two, the through lane going straight. V1 was in the middle of the intersection and was behind a non-contact vehicle that turned left. V1 entered the intersection paused and started the left turn on a green light in front of V2. V2 entered the intersection on the green light and the front of V1 struck the front of V2. After the impact, V1 rotated counter clockwise and came to rest facing south on the west side of the intersection in the westbound lane. After the impact, V2 ran off the northwest corner of the intersection and came to rest facing northwest on a snow bank. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. No one was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 17 year-old female drove V1, the Audi. She stated she left home about 15 minutes before the crash and was on her way to school. The sun was bright and low on the horizon and she had the sun visor down. She stated she was stopped behind a vehicle for five to ten seconds before the light turned green. The vehicle in front of her was able to make the left turn. She stated she followed the non-contact vehicle into the intersection, paused and looked both ways and proceeded with the turn before seeing V2. She stated she steered to the left to avoid hitting the V2, but was unsuccessful. She drives this route daily and was thinking about getting to school. She does not take drugs or medications and was wearing her glasses at the times, because she is near-sighted. She has two months of driving experience.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was: this vehicle traveling, turning left at the intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded: environment related factor; sun glare. Associated factors for V1 was inattention due to thinking about school, failure to look far enough ahead and the limited driving experience. Traffic was congested at the time. .

A 51 year-old female drove V2, the Toyota. She stated she didn't know what time she left home, but was taking her daughter to a drop off location for school. She stated she saw the non-contact vehicle make its turn and saw V1 enter the intersection and stop. She stated V1 then turned in font of them. She stated that she thought the sun was blocking the view of the driver of V1. She drives this route daily and before the start to the crash was talking to her daughter. She takes vitamins on a regular basis and was wearing her glasses because she is near-sighted.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. The driver assumed V1 would yield the right of way at the intersection.