The crash occurred at the intersection of a primary east/west arterial and a secondary north/south arterial where the north leg of the intersection was a traffic light-controlled shopping center entrance. On the east side of the intersection, there were five westbound lanes that curved to the right/north (radius measured 321 meters). In all, there were 5 westbound lanes and 2 eastbound lanes that were divided by a curb height median. There was a speed advisory of 40 kmph/25mph for westbound traffic on the approach to the intersection. The north leg of the intersection had four lanes with lane 1 southbound being a through/right turn lane, lane 2 was a left turn-only lane and lanes 3 and 4 were both northbound into the shopping center. The intersection was controlled by traffic signals on colors with no pedestrian crossing. The speed limit was 72 kmph/45 mph for both roads. Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight and dry at late morning on a weekday.

V1 was a 2007 Honda CRV utility vehicle traveling westbound in lane 2 of the east/west arterial when the driver was "preparing" to text someone and passed into the intersection under a red light. The front right of 1 struck the front left of V2, a 2003 Jaguar X-Type sedan. V2's light had just turned green and it was proceeding to turn left through the intersection from southbound lane 2. Both vehicles came to rest facing north at the northwest corner of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a forty-year-old-belted-female whose airbags deployed but was uninjured in the crash. She was on her way home from her son's school at the time of the crash. She said she had been getting ready to text someone with the cell phone in her right hand and looked up one second before the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V1 was other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle; however, several associated factors were coded to the driver. First, there was an internal distraction in that the driver was focusing on her cell phone, preparing to send a text message. A physical factor of note was a prescription she takes regularly. She was coded as having failed to look far enough ahead and failing to stop for a traffic control device. She was also coded as traveling too fast - did not realize caution was required.

V2 was driven by a belted twenty-seven-year-old-male who was transported due to possible injury to an area hospital. His airbags did not deploy. He was coming from the grocery store where he had just stopped at an ATM and was headed home. He said he didn't see V1 until the last second out of his peripheral vision.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was this vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was inadequate surveillance, failed to look to the side (left). His vehicle was also coded with tire deficiencies including dry rot and low tread.