This single-vehicle crash occurred on an urban roadway with no controls. East of the crash site, the roadway is straight and turns into a left curve. The roadway at the straight part is undivided and has three lanes, one for westbound and two for eastbound. The westbound lane turns into a two-lane roadway at the start of the curve and is divided by a painted median that turns into a curbed median at the crash site. The roadway was icy, bituminous and has an uphill grade with a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). This crash occurred while it was snowing with light traffic flow.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Honda Civic with one occupant, was eastbound on the left curve in lane one traveling into an added lane to the right. The driver stated she was driving under the speed limit because of the icy road and still lost control of the vehicle. She applied the ABS brakes and tried to steer left, into the curve, and ran off the right side of the road. V1 bounced up the curb and traveled southwest on a sidewalk. V1 continued on the sidewalk and impacted an unoccupied legally parked vehicle's left side with its front that was parked in a parking stall. The parked vehicle was a 2005 GMC Envoy SUV vehicle two (V2). V1 came to rest on its wheels facing southwest on the sidewalk. The parked vehicle (V2) was pushed counterclockwise and came to rest on its wheels facing southwest between two parking stalls. V1 was towed from the crash scene due to moderate frontal damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-five year-old female, was driving home from dropping off some things at a storage unit. The driver is joining the military the first part of the year and that was on her mind. She was well rested, in good health and does not take any medication. She is very familiar with the vehicle and has driven this roadway daily for one week. V1 was equipped with ABS brakes. However the driver said she let up on the brakes; therefore, the ABS did not activate prior to impact and V1 skidded longitudinally off the roadway. Although this driver was traveling at or below the legal speed limit she was traveling too fast for the icy curved roadway.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle control loss due to- poor road conditions (specified as: icy roadway). The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as an environment related factor: slick roads (low friction surface due to ice, loose debris, any other reason).