This crash occurred in the controlled 3-way intersection of a private driveway attached to a shopping center and a 4-lane undivided roadway. The private drive was at the north approach to the intersection with one lane as an entrance lane and one lane as an exit lane. This straight, level, and bituminous roadway had no posted speed limit. The 4-lane uncontrolled roadway had two lanes going east and two lanes going west. This straight, level, bituminous roadway has a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). The crash occurred in the early afternoon on a weekday. The roads were wet and the skies were cloudy with scattered showers throughout the day. Traffic flow was congested due to lunch hour traffic with stop-and-go activity.

V1, a 1997 Chevrolet Cavalier 4-door with two occupants was traveling out of the private driveway intending on making a left at the intersection. V2, a 2000 Nissan Altima 4-door with one occupant was heading west in lane two intending on continuing straight. V1 was stopped waiting to make a left out of the parking lot to go east. A non-contact vehicle traveling west in lane one, stopped and waved for V1 to go and make the left. V1 made the left out of the parking lot. As this was happening, V2 was traveling west in lane two. When V1 made the left, V1 came in the direct route of V2. Neither vehicles saw each other and were not able to successfully avoid the collision. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Chevy Cavalier was driven by a 37-year-old female who reported injuries and was transported a medical facility from the crash scene. The occupant, a 15-year-old male was transported a medical facility with unknown injuries. A surrogate interview was given by the driver's sister and daughter (both of whom had already spoken to the driver at the hospital). According to this interview, the driver was running errands for her daughter while her daughter was at work. The driver was using her daughter's car since she was visiting from another state and did not have her own personal vehicle. The driver was exiting the parking lot and stopped intending on making a left to head east. A non-contact vehicle that was driving in lane one stopped and waved for the driver to make the turn. The driver thought that the intersection was clear and proceeded to make the turn. According to the surrogate, the driver never saw V2 in lane two and was unable to avoid the collision.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was " This vehicle traveling- turning left at intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded as "Inadequate surveillance, looked but did not see". The surrogate stated that the driver said that she looked when the non-contact vehicle waved her on but never saw V2 until she was already in the turn. The other associated factors coded to the driver were the driver's inexperience with the vehicle. The car belonged to her daughter and the driver has only driven the car about 1-2 times in three months. The driver was visiting her family from another state, she moved out of the area 5 years ago and now rarely drives on the roadway. The non-contact vehicle in lane one that was waving the driver on hindered the view of V2. Also coded to the driver, was rush-hour congestion and there was a lot of stop-and-go activity. Finally, the roads were wet and there has been on-and-off rain all morning.

V2, the Nissan Altima was driven by a 17-year-old male who reported injuries and said that he would seek medical attention on his own. According to the driver, he was on his way home from school and planning on getting gas en route. He was traveling west in lane two when all of a sudden V1 started to turn out in front of him. The driver of V2 braked, but was unable to avoid the collision.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded as "Other vehicle encroachment- from driveway, turning into opposite direction". The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factors coded to the driver were that the driver was inexperienced having been driving for about a year when the crash occurred. Also there was rush-hour congestion with a lot of stop-and-go activity. The roads were wet due to on and off rain all morning.