The crash occurred on the east roadside of a two-lane, rural roadway with grass shoulders. The east roadside had a steep downwards embankment. There were left curves in both the north and southbound approaches to this stretch of roadway. The crash itself occurred on the northbound approaches left curve. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph) and an 8% downhill grade in the northbound direction. There was a left curve sign and advisory speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph) in both directions. Conditions were daylight and dry with clear skies. The setting was mid-morning hours on a weekday.

A noncontact 2008 International 4300 2-axle flatbed truck carrying lumber was traveling south. Vehicle 2 was a 2000 Honda Accord sedan traveling north negotiating a left curve. The noncontact vehicle entered the right curve that v1 was negotiating and crossed the center line into v1's lane. V1 traveled off the east side of the roadway to avoid colliding with the noncontact vehicle. V1 traveled down a steep embankment and rolled right one-quarter turn onto its right side, coming to rest at the bottom of the embankment. The noncontact vehicle pulled off the roadway into a driveway just south of the point of near impact with v1. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1.

The International 4300 was driven by a 30-year old male who was uninjured. He stated that he was traveling between jobsites delivering lumber. At the time he was talking on the CB radio and reading directions. He looked up just before the near impact and steered right in avoidance. He estimated his travel speed to be 72 kmph (45 mph). The International flatbed truck continued in service undamaged.

.

The Honda Accord (v1) was driven by a 30-year old male who was uninjured. He stated that he was heading to work when the noncontact vehicle steered into his lane. Faced with the option of driving head on into a heavy truck or driving off the road, he chose to steer right and brake, departing the roadway to the right. He estimated his travel speed to be 72 kmph (45 mph). The Honda sedan was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for v1 this vehicle traveling off the road on the right side The Critical Reason was coded as an incorrect evasive action. This driver was taking Claritin for allergies. He also has asthma.