The 2-car crash occurred in the southbound lane of a straight, 2 lane, 2 way, bituminous roadway where it intersected a similar roadway. The east-west roadway part of the intersection was controlled by stop signs but the north-south road was not controlled at all. At the time of morning, weekday crash it was dawn, the roadway was dry and it was very foggy. The posted speed limit for the north-south road was 80 kmph (50mph).

V1, a 2000 Toyota Camry solely occupied by the 16-year-old driver, was eastbound in lane 1 of the roadway approaching the intersection described above. V2, a 2003 Chevrolet Trailblazer solely occupied by the 50-year-old female driver, was southbound in lane 1 of the roadway described above passing through the intersection, traveling at or near the speed limit. V1 failed to stop and struck V2 in the right rear. V1 rotated clockwise and came to rest on the east side of the road in the intersection facing west. V2 rotated clockwise and as it was sliding sideways southbound while facing west, tripped and started to roll over toward the driver's side. V2 rolled to it's left 8 quarter turns and exited the roadway coming to final rest on it's wheels just off the east side of the roadway facing west. The driver of V2 was injured and transported. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 stated that he was on his way to school and was not in a hurry but was traveling at 89 kmph (55 mph). He said that when he got to within about a 1/8 of a mile of the intersection he began to brake and they did not respond as he expected them to. He did not think they were working properly. He normally turns left at that intersection but had not attempted to make the turn. He said that he thinks he had slowed to about 40/45 when he entered the intersection and collided with V2. He remarked that after he exited his vehicle on the east side of the intersection, it was so foggy that he could not see the house on the northwest corner of the intersection. He also stated that the fog was so thick he was unsure of position on the roadway and the intersection came upon fast than he expected.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason was environment related, the thick fog. Associated factors include the driver inexperience (he was only 16) and traveling too fast for conditions.

The driver of V2 stated that she had just gotten off work and was headed home. She said that she had the cruise control set at the speed limit so she would not speed and was just proceeding south. She said she never saw the other car until she felt the impact. She stated that she didn't think the fog was that bad. She did have her headlights on and does drive that route daily.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors for V2 include traveling too fast for conditions, a possible sightline restriction, and the fog.