The crash occurred in the westbound lanes of a four lane divided highway with positive barrier. This was a level, left hand curved, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 89kmph (55mph). It was morning on a weekday the road was dry and skies were cloudy. There was heavy traffic due to rush hour.

V1, a 1999 Nissan Maxima sedan with one occupant, was traveling west in lane one. V2, a 2002 Nissan Maxima sedan with one occupant, was traveling west in front of V1. V3, a 1996 Buick LeSabre sedan with one occupant, was traveling west in front of V2. V4, an unidentified Chevrolet van with an unknown number of occupants, was traveling west in front of V3. V1 was traveling at a much faster speed than traffic was and struck the rear of V2 with its front. V2 in turn struck V3 in the rear with its front. Upon being struck by V2, V3 struck V4 in the rear with its front. V4 then fled the scene. V1, 2, and 3 then pulled onto the shoulder of the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

V1, The 1999 Nissan Maxima, was driven by a 32 year old male who was transported from the scene with unknown injuries. The driver related he was on his way to work while talking on the phone to his fiancée. He believed another vehicle came up behind him at a high rate of speed. This took driver 1's attention from the traffic in front of him to the traffic behind. When driver 1 turned back around it was too late to stop in time and he struck V2.

The Critical Pre crash Event for V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane going the same direction but with a steady slower speed". The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre crash Event was “exterior distraction". Police reported his speed to be 40 MPH. The other two parties reported their speeds to be much slower than that.

V2, the 2002 Nissan Maxima, was driven by a 25 year old male who reported no injuries. He advised he was on his way to work when he was struck in the rear by V1. He in turn struck V3 on its rear with his front.

The Critical Pre crash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane with higher steady speed". No Critical Reason was coded for this vehicle.

V3, the 1996 Buick LeSabre, was driven by a 47 year old male who reported no injuries. He advised he was also on his way to work when he was struck in the rear by V2's front.

The Critical Pre crash Event for V3 was not part of the first harmful event. No Critical Reason was coded for this vehicle.