This crash occurred in the morning of an hot and humid summer day, with a storm heading in later that morning. At the time of the crash the weather was clear. The roadways were comprised of an intersection of a 6-lane, divided, bituminous road, controlled by traffic signals with pedestrian crossings and a speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph); and, another 6-lane, divided, bituminous, pedestrian crossing controlled traffic signal roadway with the same speed limit.

Vehicle one (V1) was traveling north in the fourth lane going to turn left at the intersection. The driver had stopped for the red light. Once the light changed to green, the driver of V1 proceeded to enter the intersection. V1 was impacted on the front bumper by the front of vehicle two (V2). After being struck V1 rotated clockwise almost 360 degrees to end up facing southwest in the second lane of the northbound travel lanes. V2 was traveling east in the first lane approaching the intersection. V2 did not stop for the traffic signal and impacted with the left front of V1 with its front bumper. V2 then continued northeast across the median for east/west traffic on the east side of the intersection. V2 continued in a northeast route across the west lanes, into a driveway on the north side of the roadway. V2 then struck a parked vehicle in a commercial business parking lot on the left side with its front bumper. The driver of V1 was transported to the hospital in critical condition. The passenger of V2 was transported to the hospital in critical condition. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was a 2001 Honda Civic 4-door sedan driven by an 85 year-old female who takes Triamterene (for high blood pressure) and Synthroid (for thyroid), hydrocodone, aciphex, clartin, and triamcinolone. The driver is both near and farsighted. She drives this roadway daily to go to work part-time. At the time of the crash the driver had just left home about 5 minutes earlier. She was heading to a doctors appointment, and had made the appointment at that time to avoid traffic. The driver of V1 was heading north stopped at the light and when it turned green entered the intersection and was struck by V2. The driver of V1 was unconscious at the scene and only woke up in the hospital. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.

V2 was a 1998 Chevrolet Lumina 4-door sedan driven by a 21 year-old male with his 21 year-old passenger. The driver takes no medication and wears no glasses. However the driver did mention at the time of the interview that a doctor did diagnose sleep apnea. The driver admitted that he only sleep 6 hours a night and is constantly sleepy and tired during the day. The driver of V2 had left home 15 minutes earlier with a friend to go to another friends house. The passenger was relaxed in the right front seat and the driver was fatigued from lack of sleep the night before. The driver of vehicle first stated that he was in the left lane going to turn right and was quite adamant about this. Later the driver said he might have been in the right lane. At the scene there appeared to be a combination of brake fluid mixed with radiator fluid across the post-crash path of V2. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The driver admitted that he had fallen asleep behind the wheel, possibly due to untreated sleep apnea and/or fatigue. The critical reason was attributed to V1 as a driver related factor: Sleeping, that is, actually asleep.