The crash occurred in the intersection of a four-lane east-west bound undivided roadway with a two-lane north-south bound undivided roadway. There were two lanes in each direction of the four-lane east/west roadway and one lane in each direction of the two-lane north/south roadway. Both roads were asphalt and straight. The eastbound lanes had an 8% slope uphill. The northbound lane had an 8% slope downhill. The posted speed limit for eastbound traffic was 56kph (35mph), while the speed limit for northbound traffic was 48kph (30mph). The crash occurred early on a weekend evening while traffic flow was light. The weather was cloudy with intermittent rain. Traffic was controlled by over-hanging stop and go signals without pedestrian controls, which were working properly.

V1, a 2001, Nissan Sentra four-door with one occupant was northbound in lane one. V2, a 2004 Volvo S60 four-door with one occupant was eastbound in lane two. Vehicle one had been stopped for the northbound red light. V1 advanced and entered the intersection to make a left turn when the signal turned green. V1 crossed the path of V2, which had a red light. V2 braked with lock-up and skidded in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid the collision. It remained in lane two and its front left struck the left front side of V1. Both vehicles came to rest within a meter of impact. V1 was facing northwest and V2 was still facing east. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Nissan Sentra, was driven by a 19-year old female who was not injured. The driver reported that she had just left home on the way to the gym. She said she had been stopped at the red light for more than 10 seconds and when the signal changed to green she accelerated slowly and started to make a left turn after she looked and did not see any vehicles approaching. The driver advised that she took no avoidance actions because she never saw V2 until impact. The driver said the road was wet from earlier rain but that it was not raining at the time of the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded driver related "inadequate surveillance looked but did not see". The driver admitted that she looked and did not see any vehicles approaching before she started to make her left turn. Coded as an associated factor due to its presence was driver physical. The driver was taking a prescribed medication for a pre-existing health condition. The wet roads were also coded as an associated factor due to presence although the drivers did not agree if it was actually raining at the time of the crash.

V2, the Volvo S60, was driven by a 56-year old female who was not injured. This driver advised that she did not know her speed but she was on her way home from school. The driver reported that it was raining and that as she approached the intersection she noticed V1 turning left across her path and then noticed that she had a red light. She said that when she applied her brakes they locked-up and her vehicle skidded on the slick roadway until it struck V1.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street turning into opposite direction". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle. This vehicle was assigned associated factors for driver recognition, inadequate surveillance, failure to look far enough ahead; illegal maneuver did not stop for TCD; and for the wet roadway. The researcher did not code for rainy weather because of the conflicting driver opinions and the fact that it was not raining when the researcher arrived.