This three-vehicle crash occurred in a three-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The north/south trafficway is straight and divided by a curbed median. The speed limit for this trafficway is 56 kmph (35 mph). The northbound roadway has an uphill grade and the southbound roadway has a downhill grade. The intersecting roadway is on the east side of the north/south trafficway. This roadway is undivided, straight, consists of one lane in each direction and has an uphill grade in the westbound direction. The speed limit for this roadway is 40 kmph (25 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Ford Explorer, was stopped southbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Kia Sportage, was northbound in lane one. Vehicle three (V3), a 2000 Toyota Corolla, was stopped westbound in lane one. V1 entered the intersection turning left and the right side was struck by the front of V2. V1 rotated clockwise and the left side struck the front of V3. V1 then rolled over onto the left side. As it rolled, the left side of V1 struck the top of the front bumper of V3. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a seventeen-year-old female, was on her way home from school. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she was watching the traffic signal and the northbound traffic. She noticed that the northbound traffic seemed to be slowing for the yellow traffic signal and she thought that V2 would stop. This driver had twelve months of driving experience at the time of the crash.

The driver of V2, a forty-seven-year-old female, was on her way home from work. She was well rested, healthy and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver steered to the right and applied the brakes (skidding longitudinally) when she realized that V1 was turning.

The driver of V3, a forty-eight-year-old male, was on his way to school from his home. He was in good health, well rested and familiar with his vehicle and route. He takes the medications Synthroid and Lipitor. This driver stated that he saw V1 and V2 and thought that they would miss each other.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions. This driver's inexperience was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was not coded to this vehicle.