Case 2007-103

The crash occurred on a two lane undivided north/southbound roadway with one lane in each direction. The road was very narrow (lanes were 2.6m wide) with no shoulders and thick foliage and embankments on either side. The road was dry asphalt, curved (radius of curvature of 113m, 4% super-elevation) to the left and with a 12% slope downhill to the south. The crash occurred shortly after noon on a weekday under sunny skies, with moderate traffic flow. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

V1, a 1999 Saturn SL four door with one occupant was southbound in lane one. There were no visible signs or evidence of why V1 drove off the right side of the roadway. As V1 left the roadway its undercarriage struck the right edge of the road and the vehicle continued traveling south through the thick foliage for about 20m. It came to rest facing south ensnarled in the foliage two or three meters west of the roadway. It was towed but not due to damage..

V1, the Saturn SL, was driven by a 52-year old female who was coded for possible injury and transported to a hospital. The researcher was unable to locate or contact the driver at the hospital, at her home or by phone (she gave police two false phone numbers). The researcher was unable to find any evidence to indicate why V1 left the roadway other than the investigating officer's narrative statement indicating that the driver admitted taking xanax and attempting to drive a manual transmission vehicle with a cast on her left foot.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was driver related, other critical non-performance because she was driving a manual transmission vehicle with a cast on her left foot. An associated factor was assigned to this vehicle for the driver's physical condition. She was driving under the influence of xanax, paxil, depakote, and amitriptyline (according to med report) and with a cast of her left foot. Another factor was signed for other, roadway related problem - the very narrow winding road without any shoulders.