This crash occurred at an intersection with 4-lanes of travel. There were 2 lanes of travel eastbound and 2 lanes of travel westbound. The intersection was controlled by an electronic traffic signal with a pedestrian crossing signal. The roadway was straight level dry asphalt. The speed was posted at 56 kmph (35mph). The weather was clear.

As vehicle #1 a 1997 Pontiac Sunfire traveled east in lane two toward the intersection, the traffic light was green. V1 slowed to make a left turn at the intersection. There was a large pick-up in lane two of the westbound lanes of travel. The pick up did not move from were it was as the light turned green. The driver of V1 could not see any vehicles behind the pick-up and could not see any vehicle approaching in lane one. As he continued to make his left turn across westbound lane one at the last second the driver saw vehicle #2 a 2004 Saab 9/3 convertible. The driver of V1 accelerated trying to avoid V2. V2 contacted V1 in the right rear rotating it to final rest at the northwest curb. V2 traveled through the intersection in its original lane of travel to final rest. The driver of V1 and V2 were not transported because of injuries. Vehicle #1 was towed from the scene due to vehicle damage V2 was driven away from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 51 year-old male that stated he is in good health and is taking no medications at this time drove vehicle #1. He also stated he does not wear corrective lenses at this time. He stated he had just come from the bank and was on his way home at the time of the crash. He came to the traffic light and sat there waiting for the truck to go for 4-5 seconds. He stated the truck did not move and he could not see past the truck so he started his turn, he did not see V2 coming in lane one until the last second. He also stated that he accelerated trying to avoid being hit. He was not injured in the crash and did not understand why he had to be interviewed.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was coded “this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was code driver related factor “turned with obstructed view”. The associated factor to this vehicle was the driver did not wait for the traffic to clear before turning and he did not yield the right of way.

A 45 year-old female that stated she is in good health and taking no medications at his time drove vehicle #2. She also stated she does not wear corrective lenses. She stated that she had just come from picking up her children from school and was on her way home when the crash occurred. She stated that as she approached the intersection in lane one she saw V1 approaching from the west in lane two with his left turn signal. She stated that he never stopped and made his turn in front of him. She also stated that she decelerated and braked, then steered left to avoid him. She stayed in her original lane of travel to final rest and did not move her vehicle until the officer told her to pull it into the driveway out of traffic. She stated she and her children were not injured.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded “other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The associated factors to this vehicle are being distracted by passengers in the vehicle.

The witness to this crash stated that she was traveling east in lane two behind V1. She stated as they approached the intersection the light turned green and V1 slowed to turn left. She stated she saw brake lights and a turn signal but V1 did not stop or yield the right of way. She also stated that there was a pick-up on the east side of the intersection but V1 never gave it time to make a move.