The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a high occupancy, high volume, and high-speed interstate highway. There were six lanes running northbound with both right and left side paved emergency shoulders. There were concrete wall barriers separating the southbound traffic. The road widths were a standard 3.7 meters and the emergency-paved shoulders were 3.5 meters. The road was straight and level. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekday afternoon during rush hour. The posted speed was a 105 KPH (65 MPH).

V1 was a 2000 Ford Crown Victoria that was used as a taxicab. The driver was a 44-year-old male who was on his way back to work after dropping off a customer. The driver was headed northbound in lane five when he experienced a tread separation and tried to drive the vehicle off to the left side of the roadway onto the emergency paved shoulder. As he was trying to gain control of the vehicle as it was wobbling and shaking he was traveling too fast and hit the left side concrete barrier wall driving up on it and then rolling over to the right making 6 quarter turns landing on his top facing northbound traffic. V1 made final rest approximately 175 Feet from impact. I was unable to get an exact measurement as the crash occurred on a high volume, high occupancy, and high-speed interstate roadway. The driver was able to crawl out of the window and was transported to the hospital with injuries. The vehicle was towed due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1 stated that he was driving along going the speed limit (105kph) when he felt the vehicle wobble and lose control. The vehicle started to pull slightly to the left. The driver figured there was a tire blowout and stated he was trying to get the vehicle pulled off the roadway. As he started to make his way to the left side of the roadway he was traveling too fast and hit the left side concrete wall thus causing him to roll over. He stated that he rolled over a total of 2 times and then came to final rest on the vehicles roof. He managed to climb out of the vehicle on his own, as he got scared when he saw the airbags smoking. He was treated on the scene and then transported to the hospital.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was “this vehicle lost control due to a tire tread separation”. The Critical Reason was vehicle related as there was a “tire failure”. The left rear tire had a complete tread separation. The tire was a Michelin XW4. The driver did not know any information regarding when the tire was replaced or bought, as it was his work vehicle and he was not in charge of repairs. He was not cited for the crash. There were no associative factors related to the driver.