This crash occurred in lane two of a 4-lane undivided roadway. There are two lanes going east and two lanes going west. This straight, level, and bituminous roadway has a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The crash occurred in the early morning of a weekday. The roads were wet and the skies were cloudy and rainy. Traffic flow was congested, due to rush-hour traffic and there a lot of stop-and-go traffic activity.

V1, a 1999 Nissan Maxima 4-door, was traveling west in lane two. V2, a 1995 Toyota Camry 4-door, was traveling west in lane two in front of V1. V3, a 2005 Nissan Murano, was traveling west in lane two in front of V2. As V3 was traveling west, a school bus stopped to pick up kids and the stop sign was activated. As a result, V3 decelerated and came to a stop consequently V2 did the same. V1 attempted to come to a stop but lost control of the vehicle and struck the rear of V2 and the force of that collision pushed V2 front into the rear of V3. All vehicles came to final rest at approximately point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Nissan Maxima, was driven by a 42-year-old male who reported no injuries. At the time of case release no interview was provided by the driver of V1 the only information provided came from the police accident report. V1 was traveling west in lane two behind vehicles 2 &1. When the other vehicles stopped in front of him he attempted to brake but still struck the rear of V2, pushing V2 into V3.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded as, "Other motor vehicle in lane- other motor vehicle stopped". The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as "Driver inattention-thought focus unknown". Without a driver interview, the only associated factors that were coded for the driver were congested roadway, wet roads, and rainy/cloudy weather conditions.

V2, the Toyota Camry, was driven by a 40-year-old female who reported a complaint of pain in her back and left side and was transported to the hospital. The driver refused the interview so all the information was obtained from the police accident report. V2 was traveling in front of V3 and behind V1. When V1 stopped for the school bus, V2 successfully came to a stop. Then V3 attempted to stop and struck the rear of V2, and pushed V2 into V3.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded as, "Other motor vehicle in lane - traveling at a higher rate of speed". The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this driver. Without a driver interview, the only associated factors that were coded for the driver were congested roadway, wet roads, and rainy/cloudy weather conditions.

V3, the Nissan Murano, was driven by a 42-year-old female who reported no injuries. The driver stated that she was traveling west in lane two to go to the dry cleaners from work. As she was traveling a school bus stopped to pick up kids so she stopped. The vehicle behind her, V2 came to a stop as well. She looked in her rear view mirror and observed V1 behind V2 and realized that he was not going to be able to stop in time. She was unable to move up or to try and avoid the collision because of the school bus and was struck by V2.

Since V3 was not involved in the first harmful event, the Critical Pre-crash Event and the Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event were not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factors that were coded for the driver were congested roadway, wet roads, and rainy/cloudy weather conditions.