This two-vehicle crash occurred on a two lane undivided roadway. The roadway consisted of one through lane in the east and westbound directions. This roadway was dry, straight, level, and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). This crash occurred shortly after noon during daylight hours with no traffic congestion or adverse weather conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Chevrolet Lumina with only the driver present, was westbound in lane one preparing to turn left into a private driveway. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Nissan Sentra with only the driver present, was eastbound in lane one. V1 attempted to turn left in front of V2. V2 attempted to avoid a collision by applying the brakes but was unsuccessful. The front of V1 contacted the front of V2. V1 came to rest with the majority of the vehicle in lane one for westbound traffic on all four tires facing southwest. V2 came to rest in lane one for eastbound traffic on all four tires facing southeast. At the time of the crash V2 was towed due to damage; however, the police report listed neither vehicle as being towed based on PSU sampling criteria. The case was initiated based on what information the researcher obtained during the initial scene investigation. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

A sixty-eight-year-old female was the driver of V1. Little is known about this driver due to her refusing the researcher's interview. The police report indicates that V1 did not stop to yield the right of way prior to making the left turn.

The driver of V2, a sixty-four-year-old male, had come from home and was on his way to pick up lunch when the crash occurred. He was rested, drives this route several times a month and is very comfortable with this vehicle. The driver has several health conditions: diabetes, Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), and high blood pressure. They are controlled with medications that include: Atenolol, Lorazepam, Hydrochlorothiazide, Glyburide, Gemfibrozil, Ranitidine, and Aspirin. V2 had 16.2 meters (52 feet) of skid marks prior to impact. If the driver was reportedly traveling at 48 kmph (30 mph), he was traveling at a rate of 13.5 meters per second (44 feet per second) and would need about 1.5 seconds in order to stop prior to impact. The speed of V2 along with reaction time did not allow the driver of V2 enough time to successfully avoid the impact.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: type of driver error unknown. It is unknown if this driver had inadequate surveillance, misjudged the gap/speed of V2, or had a driver distraction which made the situation critical. She did fail to yield the right of way to V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.