This crash occurred on a roadway that had 4 lanes of travel with two in each direction with a raised asphalt median. The speed was posted at 72 kmph (45 mph). The roadway was dry, level concrete. The weather was clear. It was an early weekday morning.

Vehicle 3, a 2003 Chevrolet Impala was traveling south in lane one. Vehicle 2, a 1996 Geo Prizm was also traveling in lane one behind V3. As vehicle 3 and vehicle 2 were traveling an unknown van had made a panic stop in front of an unknown dark colored vehicle causing V3 to stop fast. V2 then contacted the rear of V3 doing very little damage to V3. The crash between V2 and V3 was stabilized and there was minor damage to the vehicles. As the two vehicles were going to pull to the side of the roadway Vehicle 1, a 1994 Chevrolet pick-up then contacted the rear of V2 pushing it forward to re-contact V3. The driver of V3 was not injured and her vehicle was drivable. The driver of V2 was transported to a local trauma unit due to injuries. V2 was towed from the scene due to damage. The driver of V1 received minor injuries and was treated on scene. His vehicle was driven from the scene also. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 36 year-old male that stated he is in good heath drove V1 and also states he is taking a water pill for Hypertension. He does not wear corrective lenses. He stated he was on his way to work and had traveled about three or four miles when the crash occurred. A small pick-up was ahead of him. The small pick-up veered off to the right onto an exit ramp. He then saw the two vehicles in front of him in the same lane stopped. He locked-up his brakes and steered to the right but contacted the rear of V2 pushing it forward to contact V3. He stated he was not injured but was looked at on scene by EMS personnel.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded “other motor vehicle in lane - traveling in same stopped”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded driver related factor - decision errors too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others (V2 and V3 stopped to avoid another vehicle). The associated factors to this driver were driving to close to vehicle ahead and impending problem masked by traffic flow pattern.

A 37 year-old female who stated she is in good health and taking no medications at this time drove V2. She also stated that she is not wearing corrective lenses at this time. She stated that she was going to merge onto the interstate to travel across town to pick-up her granddaughter to take her to school. As she traveled on the roadway the vehicle in front of her stopped very fast. She was driving a manual shift vehicle was not able to stop in time. She stated as they started to pull to the side of the roadway she was hit from behind breaking her seat backward. She stated that after that she just remembers a man coming to check on her and a woman climbed in her passenger door stating she was an off duty EMS person.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded “other motor vehicle in lane - traveling in same direction with higher speed”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The associated factors to this driver were driving to close to react to other drivers. And being distracted by using her cell phone and driving.

A 47 year-old female who stated she is in good health at this time drove V3. She also stated that she does not wear corrective lenses at this time. She stated she had just left work and was on her way home at the time of the crash. She stated that a van had stopped very fast causing a vehicle in front of her to stop. She stated she was able to stop but the vehicle behind her hit the rear of her vehicle. She stated that as she started to pull forward a pick-up contacted the vehicle behind her pushing it back into her vehicle. She stated she was not injured in the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V3 was coded not involved in first harmful event. The Critical Reason for the critical event was coded not coded to this vehicle.

Witness 1 stated that as she traveled south in lane one she saw the brake lights come-on on the vehicle ahead of her. She stated that the first vehicle stopped but V2 hit the rear of the vehicle ahead. She stated that she pulled onto the entrance ramp of the interstate to stop. She stated the vehicle behind her must not of been watching as to what was happening and hit the rear of the V2. She stated as she got into V2 to help take care of her until EMS units could respond the driver was on a cell phone taking.

Witness 2 stated that a white van stopped for no reason. There were no vehicles ahead of the van. He stated he stopped then he heard tires screeching. He looked in his mirror to see V3 stopping then V2 hitting V3. As he got out to check on drivers he stated the driver of V2 was using her cell phone. He stated a lady was getting into the passengers door stating she was an off duty EMS person. We were telling to hang up and let us help but she would not get off the cell phone. He stated he checked on the driver of V3 she stated she was a nurse and was not injured. He stated the driver of V1 did not seem to be injured.