The single car crash occurred against the median wall of a semi-urban, cement, 6-lane interstate, curved right with a positive barrier. There were three lanes in each direction divided by a cement median wall. At the time of the early morning, weekday crash, the road was dry, it was daylight, and there were no adverse weather conditions. Traffic was heavy due to rush hour. The posted speed limit was 113 kmph (70 mph).

V1, a 2000 Toyota Camry occupied by a 30-year-old female driver and a 30-month-old male passenger, were westbound in lane 1 of the roadway described above. V1 proceeded to change lanes to the left, into the middle lane, and was almost entirely into that lane when the driver noticed a non-contact vehicle changing lanes into the middle lane from lane 3. The driver of V1 steered right then left, sending V1 into a counterclockwise yaw across the roadway to the left. V1, front, contacted the median wall, continued to rotate counterclockwise, then contacted the median wall again with its right side and slid to a stop against the wall facing east. Neither occupant of V1 was injured. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1 stated that she was in the right lane traveling at about 75 mph. She said she was going to work and was familiar with the roadway and was on time. She said she put on her left directional signal and was almost all the way into lane 2 when she looked to her left and saw the non-contact vehicle coming into lane 2 at high rate of speed. She said she swerved right then over-corrected when she steered left and ended up going into a counterclockwise yaw while braking. She said she was unable to avoid hitting the wall with the front and the right side of V1. A witness who was following V1 supported the V1's driver's description of the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was overcompensation, a driver related factor. An associated factor was the congested rush hour traffic.