The crash occurred in the gorge section on the outside of a ramp of a highway. This happened off the southbound section of the ramp. There were two lanes southbound with a positive barrier on each side. The posted speed limit on the exit ramp was 40 kmph (25 mph). It was nighttime but the road was illuminated by streetlamps.

V1, a 2003 Mazda Protégé 4-door sedan, was driven by a 44-year old female who was traveling alone. V1 had supposedly stopped between the southbound lanes of the highway and the exit ramp because the driver was sick. After throwing up, she drove off the road in between the highway and the exit ramp into a gorge with bushes and trees. She drove 412 meters until her vehicle hit a sewer grate and damaged the undercarriage of her vehicle. She then drove another 26 meters until her vehicle came to a rest. Upon arrival on the scene, other drivers were questioning how her vehicle ended up where it was and assumed she drove off the top of the gorge and down onto the lower part of the highway. The driver was sitting on the positive barrier drinking a bottle of water. Other drivers from other vehicles stopped to ask if she was OK and she responded she was fine. When the State Trooper arrived, an alcohol test was conducted. The driver failed the test and was detained. Upon speaking to the driver inside of the police unit, she stated she had just come back from her boyfriend's house and was on her way home. She said she did feel a little drowsy after leaving her boyfriend's house and accused him of putting something inside her drink. She stated that she pulled over because she had to "throw up." She said she's not sure how she started driving off the road but figured if she kept going, she would eventually end up back on the road. She said she remembered her vehicle making a "funny noise" then stopping and couldn't move anymore. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was a driver related performance error: the driver failed to control vehicle with skill ordinarily expected. On the police report, it was indicated that the driver was under the influence of alcohol. On scene, police were seen giving the driver both a physical test (eye motion and walking the line) and also a Breathalyzer test. The police report indicates that the driver refused an alcohol test. An investigation of the interior of the vehicle revealed marijuana residue all over the driver's seat. The vehicle had to been crane-lifted from the gorge it was in. Scene evidence showed V1's tracks that started from split in the road, traveling all the way down to where vehicle came to final rest. Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include fatigue and alcohol use.