This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. On the north and south sides of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a curbed median. The southbound and northbound traffic lanes consist of a left turn lane, two through lanes and a right turn lane for each direction. This roadway is straight and level, with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred during afternoon daylight hours with rush hour congestion.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Ford Mustang with one occupant, was southbound in lane four, turning left at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1992 Isuzu Rodeo with one occupant, was northbound in lane three. The traffic signal indicated a yellow light for both directions, and V1 proceeded with the left turn. The driver of V2 applied the brakes, but was unable to stop in time to avoid a collision and the front of V2 impacted the right side of V1. V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest facing north in lane one on the north side of the intersection. V2 rotated slightly clockwise and came to rest facing northeast in the middle of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a seventy-eight-year-old male, was coming from home and going to a friend's house. He was well rested, drives this route several times a month, and is very comfortable with his vehicle. He takes Lisinopril, Zocor, and aspirin on a regular basis to control his high blood pressure. He stated that the light had turned yellow and he looked, but didn't see anyone coming, so he went ahead with his left turn. He mentioned that there was a car in the left turn lane going northbound, and this may have prevented him from seeing V2.

The driver of V2 was a forty-two-year-old male. Little is known about the driver of V2 because the researcher was unable to obtain the interview after repeated telephone and in-person attempts.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: turned with obstructed view. An associative factor was inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.