The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. The north/south roadway was a two-way, two-lane undivided street, controlled by a stop sign. The east/west roadway was a two-way, four-lane street, divided by a very wide grass median. The east/west roadway had no traffic control device. These were straight, level, asphalt roads, with posted speeds of 48 kmph (30 mph). Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 1995 Isuzu Rodeo sport utility vehicle with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane one. V2, a 2006 Volvo C70 convertible with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane two. Both vehicles were approaching the same intersection. V1 came to a complete stop, and then proceeded across the eastbound lanes into the median crossover area. As V1 attempted to cross the westbound lanes, it struck V2. The front of V1 made contact with the left side of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.

V1, the Isuzu Rodeo, was driven by a 44-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he had just left work and was heading home. The driver indicated that he stopped at the required area. When traffic (eastbound) cleared, the driver continued into the median area. The driver said that he did not think he had to stop at the median before proceeding. He commented that if he were supposed to stop, there would have been another stop sign at the median. According to the driver, he did look in V2's direction before crossing, but did not see her. He speculated that she might have been in his blind spot (referring to his right A pillar), or that her gray car blended in with the asphalt.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related recognition error, inadequate surveillance. The driver said he looked, but actually failed to look to the right before crossing the westbound lanes of travel. One associated factor for this driver was experience related. The driver was unfamiliar with the roadway. The wide median confused the driver, who thought the eastbound and westbound lanes were two completely separate roadways. The absence of a stop sign in the median area was an indication to the driver that he was not required to yield the right-of-way to westbound traffic.

V2, the Volvo C70, was driven by a 55-year old female, who was not injured. She stated that she was on her way home from work. She said that as she approached the intersection, she saw the other driver, but thought he was going to yield the right-of-way. It wasn't until she reached the intersection that she noticed he wasn't stopping. She hit her brakes and steered right in an attempt to get over into the adjacent lane. The impact spun the driver's car completely around.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. One associated factor for this driver was a false assumption. The driver saw V1 approaching, but assumed he was going to yield the right-of-way.