This four-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The east/west trafficway is straight and divided by a painted median. There are three lanes in each direction and a left turn lane (separated from the through lanes by a painted separator) at the intersection. The westbound approach has an uphill grade and the eastbound approach has a downhill grade. The speed limit for this trafficway is 89 kmph (55 mph). The north/south trafficway is divided by a curbed median. The northbound approach has an uphill grade, curves to the right and consists of one through lane, two left turn lanes and a right turn lane. The speed limit for this trafficway is 40 kmph (25 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Mercury Mariner, was westbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 1991 Ford Aerostar, was eastbound in lane two. Vehicle three (V3), a 1966 GMC pickup, was stopped northbound in lane four and vehicle four (V4), a 2003 Ford Econoline van, was stopped northbound in lane two. V1 moved into the left turn lane and entered the intersection, turning left. The right side of V1 was struck by the front of V2. V1 rotated clockwise and the left side struck the front of V3 and the front of V4. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-two-year-old male, had just left a doctor appointment and was on his way to pick up lunch on his way back to work. He stated that he saw V2 but "thought he'd stop" and attempted to make his turn when the signal turned yellow. This driver provided no further information.

The driver of V2, an eighteen-year-old male, had just made a flower delivery and was on his way back to the shop for more flowers. He was well rested, healthy and travels this route daily. This was the first time he had driven this vehicle and stated that he did not feel comfortable with it due to the "lack of safety features." This driver stated that he saw V1 waiting to turn and applied the brakes when V1 suddenly turned in front of him.

The driver of V3, a twenty-six-year-old male, was on his way home from a restaurant. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. He takes insulin for his diabetes. This driver saw the crash between V1 and V2 but could not make any avoidance maneuvers.

The male driver of V4 was not interviewed. No further information is available for this driver.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; false assumption of other's actions."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."

The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded as "not involved first harmful event." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was "not coded to this vehicle."