The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a two-way, ten-lane interstate roadway divided by a concrete median barrier. There were five southbound lanes, with a posted speed of 105 kmph (65 mph). This was a straight, level, asphalt roadway. Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 1998 Freightliner tractor-trailer with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane three. V2, a 2007 Dodge Caliber with two occupants, was traveling southbound in lane two. The driver of V1 encroached into V2's travel lane. The right front tire rim of V1 sideswiped the left side of V2. The impact caused V2 to rotate in a counterclockwise direction in front of V1. The front of V1 made contact with the left side of V2. V2 remained engaged with the front grill of V1 until the tractor-trailer was able to come to a complete stop. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.

V1, the Freightliner, was driven by a 61-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he was on his way to pick up a cargo load. The driver believed that the other motorist must have changed into his lane. He said that he was traveling straight, with no intention of changing lanes. He never saw the other vehicle before impact. The driver said that the first impact felt like a possible flat tire. He then saw the other vehicle sideways, in front of his grill. The truck driver brought his vehicle to a controlled stop as quickly as he could.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the right side of travel lane." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related recognition error, inadequate surveillance. It is believed that the driver was attempting to change lanes to the right at the time of the crash. The driver did not adequately check to the right front of his vehicle before moving over. V2 may also have been in the driver's blind spot. There were no additional associated factors present for this driver.

V2, the Dodge Caliber, was driven by a 34-year old male, who was transported to the hospital due to injury. He stated that he and his wife had just begun a weeklong vacation. They were on their way from a relative's home to a shopping mall. The driver said that he had no intention of changing lanes, and that the tractor-trailer must have crossed into his lane.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane, over left lane line." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. One associated factor for this driver was recognition-related. The motorist was having a social conversation with his passenger at the time of the crash. No additional associated factors were present for this driver.