The crash occurred in the middle of an intersection. V1 was eastbound on a five-lane roadway divided by a grass median. There were three east lanes and two west lanes. V2 was southbound on a four-lane roadway that was undivided. There were three south lanes and one north lane. The intersection was controlled by traffic lights (on colors w/o pedestrian signals). Both roadways were straight, level, bituminous with a speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The crash occurred in the early afternoon on a weekday under cloudy skies with brisk winds. The police report states that the traffic signal was malfunctioning, after observing the signal on scene for several cycles, it was found that with the wind gusting, the signals facing north were swaying sufficiently to obscure the colored lenses and make the lights/signals appear dark but they were working correctly.

V1, a 1997 Mercury Sable was traveling in lane two heading east. V2, a 1997 Honda Accord was traveling in lane two heading south. V1 was traveling through a solid green light when it's left side was struck by V2's front. V1 rotated about 15 degrees clockwise and came to rest in the intersection very close to impact. V2 was driven to the south leg of the intersection and pulled to the side. Both vehicles were towed from scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 23-year-old, belted female who sustained possible injuries and was not transported for treatment. Her 3-year-old son was restrained and uninjured. She stated that she was driving in the middle lane heading east when V2 started to go through the intersection. There was not much that she could do.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “other vehicle encroachment from crossing-street across path”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No factors other than weather and road conditions could be coded to this vehicle.

V2 was driven by a 20-year-old belted female who was uninjured in the crash. She stated that the traffic signal was malfunctioning and was out. She also stated that there was a pickup truck in lane 3 the left turn only lane on the west leg of the intersection that blocked her view of V1. She was on her way home from work early at the time of the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was “this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) the intersection”. The Critical Reason was coded as a “crossed with obstructed view”. She was also coded as having looked but did not see. The non contact vehicle was coded as a sightline restriction and the roadway/weather conditions were also documented.