The crash occurred in an interchange area. The southbound exit ramp consisted of three one-way lanes and a right turn lane. The east/west roadway was a two-way, eight-lane road divided by a concrete curbed median. These were straight, asphalt roads with a posted speed of 56 kmph (45 mph) in each direction. Conditions were daylight on a weekend afternoon with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1 was a 2001 Honda accord that was traveling southbound on the exit ramp getting ready to make a left hand turn at the green traffic light as he exited the highway. V1 was in lane three and was in the intersection when V2, a 2004 Honda CRV that was traveling in lane three heading westbound ran a red light and hit the front of V1 thus causing V1 to rotate to the right and side slapping V1's left rear side. The second impact caused right side damage to V2. Both cars pulled ahead and came to final rest in lane three of the westbound lanes. No one was injured and both vehicles were towed due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

V1 was driven by a 23-year-old male who was on his way to a hotel for his girlfriend's birthday celebration. He had just come from his home and gotten off the highway. The light was green and he was making a left turn from lane three. As he approached the intersection he stated in the interview that out of the corner of his left eye he saw the gold SUV coming through the red light. V1 tried to hit the brakes but was unable to avoid getting hit in the left front and left rear side. He was not cited for the crash. His vehicle was towed due to damages.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was "inadequate surveillance," failure to look to either side. An associate factor was that he and his passenger were conversing before the crash. The driver stated in the interview that the conversation was social and was not a distraction to his driving.

V2 was driven by a 68-year-old woman who was on her way home from a friend's house. The driver stated that she was in the middle lane when last she looked at the traffic light she thought was green for her intersection and proceeded through. The driver didn't realize that there was another light that she was supposed to stop for to let the highway traffic off. The driver then ran the red light and hit V1. The driver was cited a ticket for failure to stop for a Traffic control device. V2 was towed due to damages.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment from crossing street turning into opposite direction". The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle even though she ran the red light. There were no associate factors related to V2. V2 was not injured and her vehicle was towed due to damages.