This two-vehicle crash occurred on a suburban two-way, two-lane road. The westbound approach started off straight and level, then changed to an uphill 8 percent grade, then started to curve left with a +3 percent super-elevation. The eastbound approach was a downhill 5 percent grade with a +6 percent super-elevation and curved right. The authorized speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph) with sharp newly paved bituminous asphalt. The setting was morning hours on a weekday. Conditions were cloudy with rainy skies and slick wet roads. Traffic flow was moderate at the time of the crash.

Vehicle 1 (V1), a 2004 Ford Mustang two door with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane one. Vehicle 2 (V2), a Toyota Tacoma compact pickup with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane one. As V1 attempted to go up the steep hill, the driver of V1 accelerated and the rear tires broke traction and the car started to rotate in a counterclockwise manner, causing it to cross the double yellow line to the left. V2 rounded the right curve to find V1 in its lane. The driver of V2 attempted to avoid a collision by steering to the right and braking but was unsuccessful. As V1 was lateral across V2's travel lane, its front contacted the front left corner of V2. V1 came to final rest close to the impact area. After impact, V2 traveled into a wet red clay ditch and tipped over onto its left side. V2 left approximately 11 meter (36 feet) of left front tire impressions in the ditch prior to it tipping over. The left front tire sunk in the mud, causing the truck to be top heavy and tip over and come to final rest. The ditch had a negative 38 percent slope. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 36-year-old male, did not report any injuries from the crash. He reported having the day off from work because of the rain (he worked construction). He had just dropped his two kids off at school and was on his way back home. He knew driving his car in the rain with bald tires was a mistake, but he did it anyway. He claimed he was driving straight at 56 kmph (35 mph) as he approached a steep uphill left curve. He said as he accelerated up the hill, his rear-end came out and he started to travel counterclockwise and crossed the double-yellow lane line. He took his foot off the gas and steered right to try and regain control, but that was when V2 rounded the curve and they made contact in V2's lane. After impact his vehicle spun around and came to rest facing south and he witnessed V2 roll over in the ditch. His vehicle was towed with front end damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the left of travel lane." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was poor directional control. This driver failed to control his vehicle with skill ordinarily expected. All four of his tires were bald with zero tread depth on the rear tires. This contributed to his loss of control; however, he knew of his poor tire condition and still chose to drive knowing the danger of driving on a wet roadway. He had his radio on during the crash events. He had a suspended driver's license with at least two prior crashes in this vehicle. He reported taking two different anti-depression medications that he's been on since he was a teenager. He was also driving too fast for conditions. The driver knew his tires were bald, but still decided to drive at or above the posted speed limit. The wet roadway and the weather (rain) were contributing factors.

The driver of V2, a 54-year-old male, did not report any injuries from the crash. He was on his way to work on the morning of the crash. He reported driving at 56 kmph (35 mph) around a sharp right curve. When he emerged from the curve, he noticed V1 skidding sideways toward him in his lane. He hit the brakes without locking them up and steered right in an attempt to avoid a collision, but was unsuccessful. He struck the front plane of V1 with his front left corner. He maintained control of his truck, but traveled off the road to the right, into a muddy ditch. He slowed to about 11 kmph (7 mph) and then his truck tipped over onto its left side. He said that the left front of his truck sank in the mud, causing it to tip. His vehicle was towed from the scene.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction, over left lane line." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The wet roadway and the weather (rain) were the only associated factors coded for the driver of V2.