This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged intersection. The east/west trafficway is divided and straight. The westbound approach is level, consists of two lanes and is controlled by a stop sign. The speed limit for this roadway is 40 kmph (25 mph). The north/south roadway is undivided, straight and consists of one lane in each direction with left turn lanes at the intersection. The northbound approach has an uphill grade. The speed limit for this roadway is 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Chevrolet Cavalier, was stopped westbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Pontiac Grand Prix, was northbound in lane one. V1 entered the intersection, turning left, and the left side was struck by the front of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a nineteen-year-old female, was on her way home from a friend's house. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route weekly. This driver stated that she looked left and right before entering the intersection and did not see V2 prior to the crash.

The driver of V2, a forty-six-year-old female, was on her way back to work after running an errand. She was well rested, healthy and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she had just driven through a construction area and was looking at that area in her rearview mirror. When she looked forward, she saw V1 and applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle. This driver's focus on the construction area and her inadequate surveillance were associated factors in this crash.