The single vehicle, weekend, morning crash occurred off the left side of a two-lane westbound interstate divided by a cement median barrier (two lanes in each direction). The westbound lanes curved to the left, were bituminous, and had a downhill grade of 5 percent. The posted speed limit was 113 kmph (70 mph). At the time of the crash it was daylight, the weather was clear and the roadway was dry.

V1, a 1998 Pontiac Grand Prix 4-door sedan solely occupied by a 24 year-old female driver, was westbound in lane one of the roadway approaching the curve described above. V1 was passing some traffic that was westbound in lane 2 and approaching the rear of a semi-truck. V1 cut into lane 2 to pass the truck then corrected to the right and then over-corrected to the left. V1 went into a counterclockwise yaw, skidded off the road to the left and contacted the median wall with its front. V1 rebounded off the wall, continued to rotate counterclockwise and struck the wall again with its back right. V1 came to rest against the median wall facing east-northeast. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver jumped out of the car and locked it as soon as she came to final rest. She then got into a car passing by that turned out to be her sister's and went to work with her, leaving V1 at the scene of the crash. The two worked together at the same place. A witness observed all of this and notified police who went to her place of employment. The driver initially denied having been the driver of V1 but then admitted that she was. The driver stated that she had awakened late for work and was running late. She had already been warned by her boss about arriving late for work and that she might be fired if she was late.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "this vehicle control loss due to traveling too fast for conditions." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was the driver's aggressive driving behavior. Some contributing factors on the part of V1 include the driver's speeding and cutting in and out of traffic, running late for work and being in a hurry, her concerns about her employment and thinking about her concerns. Her driver's license was also under suspension at the time of the crash.