This two-vehicle daytime collision occurred in the intersection of a four lane roadway with a left hand turn lane and a two lane arterial road. The roads are paved with concrete. The northbound roadway is straight and has a downhill grade of - 8%. The southbound roadway is straight and has an uphill grade of 3%. The speed limit for both vehicles is 56 kph (35 mph). Traffic flow controlled by on-colors traffic signal. At the time of the crash the sky was cloudy with no adverse conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Ford Taurus Wagon driven by a sixty one (61) year old male with one passenger, was traveling north in lane two then proceeded into the center left-hand turn lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1991 Toyota Tercel Sedan driven by a thirty four (34) year old male, was traveling south in lane two going straight. V1 entered into the middle of the intersection and yielded to on coming traffic before he began his left hand turn. As V2 approached the intersection the light change to yellow and he proceeded through. V1 began his left-hand turn on the yellow light assuming that any on coming traffic would stop. The front of V1 hit the left side of V2, causing V2 to rotate clockwise and come to rest facing the south/west corner. V2 was able to park on the north/west curb. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was assigned to V1 as a driver related factor: turned with obstructed view. inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see) was considered an associative factor. The driver of V1 stated that he did not see V2 due to the other car that had stopped at the intersection in the left-hand turn lane and he was unable to see the on coming traffic. He was also somewhat inattentive due to thinking about a future event.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor for V2 is assuming any other vehicles approaching the intersection would stop at the yellow light.