This three vehicle early afternoon daylight collision occurred at a four-leg intersection comprised by a north/south roadway and an east/west roadway. The north/south roadway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of two lanes. The north leg curves right on the approach to the intersection. The east/west roadway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of seven lanes. The north/south roadway is designated a 40 kmph (25 mph) zone. The east/west roadway is designated a 64 kmph (40 mph) zone. The intersection is controlled by a on-color signal that was working properly at the time of the collision.

Vehicle one (V1) is an unknown four-door sedan, hit and run vehicle that was traveling eastbound in the number two lane. Vehicle two (V2) is a 1999 Ford Mustang convertible, driven by a forty four (44) year old female who was traveling eastbound in the number two lane. Vehicle three (V3) is a 2005 Toyota Highlander sport utility vehicle, driven by a thirty nine (39) year old male who was traveling eastbound in the number two lane. As V1 was traveling through the intersection, it encountered stopped traffic. The front plane of V1 contacted the rear plane of V2. The front plane of V2 then contacted the rear plane of V3. V1 came to rest facing eastbound in the number two lane. V2 came to rest facing eastbound in the number two lane. V3 came to rest facing eastbound in the number two lane. V1 fled the scene with unknown damage. V2 was towed from the scene with major damage. V3 was driven from the scene with minor damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1 is an unknown male. Unfortunately, the driver fled the scene shortly after the collision. The driver could not be located by law enforcement authorities or the researcher.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event was assigned to V1 as: unknown reason, unknown reason for critical event. It is unknown if the critical event was related to the driver or the vehicle due to lack of vehicle inspection and lack of driver interview.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.