The crash occurred at the intersection of two roadways. The north/south roadway was a two-way, seven-lane street, divided by a concrete curbed median. The east/west roadway was a two-way undivided street, with two lanes on the west side of the intersection and four lanes on the east side of the intersection. These were straight, level, asphalt roads, controlled by a traffic light. The posted speed for north/south traffic was 72 kmph (45 mph). Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 2006 Mazda 3 with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane two. V2, a 1992 GMC Sierra pickup with one occupant, was also traveling northbound in lane two, ahead of V1. Both vehicles came to a complete stop for a red light south of the intersection. When the light turned green, V2 entered the intersection followed closely by V1. As the two vehicles entered the intersection, traffic slowed. The front of V1 made contact with the back of V2. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

V1, the Mazda 3, was driven by a 31-year old female, who was not injured. She stated that she was on her way from her house to work. She confirmed that the light was red as she approached the intersection, and that she came to a complete stop behind V2. When the light turned green, traffic started to move forward. The driver indicated that there was not much separation between herself and the driver of V2 as she accelerated, due to the fact that the two vehicles had been stopped behind each other at the light. The motorist glanced down at an object inside the vehicle. She said that she did not expect traffic to suddenly back up in the middle of the intersection at a light that had just turned green. The driver looked up a split-second before striking the rear of V2. She did not have time to take any avoidance actions.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related recognition error, internal distraction. The driver took her eyes off the roadway to look at an unknown object inside the vehicle. One associated factor for this motorist was a decision-related false assumption. The driver said that she glanced down because the light had just turned green, and she thought that the truck in front of her would continue to proceed through the intersection. Additionally, congested traffic created a traffic flow interruption factor.

V2, the GMC Sierra, was driven by a 35-year old male, who was not injured. He could not be reached for interview. The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this driver. As with V1, there was the presence of a traffic flow interruption. No additional associated factors could be determined, due to lack of interview data.