The crash occurred on a four-lane east/westbound roadway divided by a grassy median. There were two lanes in each direction. The roadway was straight, dry, level, asphalt with a posted speed limit of 80 kmph (50mph). The crash occurred early afternoon on a weekday while traffic was light and under clear sunny skies. There were no traffic control devices.

V1, a 1996 Chevy Beretta two door with two occupants was traveling eastbound in lane 1. V2, a 2001 Chevy Impala four door with two occupants was traveling eastbound in lane one ahead of V1. V3, a 2007 GMC Acadia four door SUV with four occupants was traveling eastbound in lane 2. V1's front struck the rear of V2 (Event 1) causing it to veer to the left while rotating in a counter-clockwise direction. The left front of V2 then crossed into lane two and struck the right front of V3 (Event 2). V3 yawed slightly in a counter-clockwise direction and its right rear struck the left rear of V2 (Event 3). Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Meanwhile, after Event 1, V1 rotated in a counter-clockwise direction and continued yawing to the right onto the shoulder out of control. V1 skidded eastward sideways for about 76m, where it's rear end traveled off the edge of the shoulder onto the grass roadside and the rear end struck a 30cm tree trunk (Event 4). That impact caused V1 to rotate in a clockwise direction while it continued traveling east. V1 came to rest on the grass roadside facing east approximately 84m east of the first impact point.

After Event 3, both V2 and V3 veered to the left off the edge of the road onto the grass median. V2 came to rest on the median facing east approximately 140m east of the first impact. V3 came to rest on the median facing east approximately 152m east of the first impact. All three vehicles were towed due to damage.

V1, the Chevy Beretta, was driven by a 60-year old male, who was coded for incapacitating injuries and transported to a hospital. The 35-year old right front seat passenger was up and arguing with police and EMT's at the scene. He was transported to the hospital where he expired later as a result of his injuries. The driver refused to answer any researcher questions on the advise of counsel. According to the police report both occupants were under the influence of intoxicants. There was a partially consumed half-gallon bottle of whiskey visible on the right front floorboard.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane traveling the same direction with a lower steady rate of speed". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was driver related, "type of driver error unknown" due to the driver's refusal to be interviewed. Associated factors assigned to V1 were for driver physical condition due to the observed presence of alcohol and the police reported BAC (test results unknown); and for driver behavior, decision, traveling too fast for conditions reason unknown. Police follow-up report to researcher indicated that driver's BAC was .21 and passenger's BAC was .13.

V2, the Chevy Impala, was driven by a 68-year old female. Both she and her 12-year old right front seat passenger were coded for incapacitating injuries and transported to a hospital. The driver later reported that she was returning home traveling at an unknown speed. Her vehicle's EDR indicated that she was traveling 79 kmph (49 mph), with no braking, at impact. She said she never saw either V1 or V3 and took no evasive actions.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane traveling the same direction at a higher rate of speed". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle. Associated factors were assigned to V2 for driver, physical condition due to the driver's bad back, previous aneurism, and bad heart and the numerous medications she was taking; and for driver behavior, recognition - she was conversing with her passenger.

V3, the GMC Acadia, was driven by a 42-year old female. Neither she nor her occupants were injured. The driver reported that she was traveling about 89 kmph (55mph) while returning home from a trip to the zoo. She said she took no evasive actions because she never saw either V1 or V2 until after V2 struck hers.

The Critical Precrash Event and the Critical Reason for the Critical Event were not coded for V3 because it was not involved in the first harmful event. There were no associated factors assigned to V3.