The crash occurred in the middle of a four-way intersection. The north/south roadway was divided with five northbound lanes and three southbound lanes on the northbound approach to the intersection. The roadway had the same configuration in the southbound direction, with five southbound lanes and three northbound lanes on the southbound approach to the intersection. Lane one was a right turn-only lane, lanes two, three and four were through lanes, and lane five was left turn-only. The north and south lanes were separated by a raised curbed median. The roadway was straight and level. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekday early morning. The posted speed was 56 KMPH (35 MPH). Traffic flow was heavy as it was morning rush hour.

V1 was 2001 Toyota Tacoma pickup truck that was traveling southbound in lane five. The driver was attempting to make a left hand turn at the light. As the driver made a left, V1 was hit on the right side by V2, a 1996 Dodge Ram pickup truck hauling a trailer. V2 had been traveling northbound in lane two. When the driver of V2 saw V1 turn in front of him, he tried to steer away but could not avoid V1. After the impact with V1, V2 drove over the sidewalk and through some bushes into a parked vehicle. V3 was a 1994 Ford Aerostar minivan that was parked in a parking space. V2's front struck the front of V3. The driver of V1 was transported to a local hospital with injuries. V1 and V2 were towed due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 57-year-old male who was on his way to work. The driver stated that he had a "solid green" light and had the right to make the left turn. The driver then stated that V2 ran a yellow light and hit him.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling, making a left turn. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver error, false assumption, as he assumed V2 would yield the right of way to him. An associated factor was the traffic congestion. The driver of V1 was cited for the crash for failure to yield the right of way.

A 58-year-old male who was on his way to work drove V2. The driver stated that he was in lane two heading northbound when he approached the intersection and V1 just turned in front of him. At that point he was almost in the intersection and was not able to stop. The driver then stated that he hit the brakes and steered but lost control and drove up the sidewalk and through the bushes into the parked van. He stated that he tried every avoidance action to avoid hitting V1 but was unsuccessful. V2 was towed due to damages and the driver was transported with injuries.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was another vehicle encroachment from the opposite direction over the left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to V2 was the traffic congestion.

V3 was parked but occupied by a 43-year-old male who worked at the body shop where V3 was parked. The driver stated that he saw the crash happen. The driver didn't take any avoidance maneuvers, as he didn't think V2 would drive through the bushes into the parking lot. The driver saw V1 and V2 hit but didn't think anyone would hit him, as they were both in the intersection. V2 then hit him on his front bumper. V3 was not towed due to damages. The driver was not injured. No Critical Pre-crash Event and no Critical Reason were coded to V3, as it was not in transport.