This two-vehicle crash occurred on a straight roadway at the exit of a business parking lot. The road is a 5-lane (two-way traffic with a two-way left turn lane) roadway from west to east. The speed limit for the roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash. It was late morning hours on a weekend and there was medium traffic on the roadways.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Mercury Grand Marquis with one occupant, was stopped facing north at the parking lot exit, waiting to turn left into the westbound lanes. Vehicle two (V2), a 1991 Mercury Grand Marquis with one occupant, was traveling east in the first lane of traffic. V1 pulled out of the parking lot and attempted to turn left, crossing the roadway in front of V2. The front of V2 struck the left side of V1. V1 rotated counterclockwise, and came to rest within the westbound lanes, facing southwest. V2 rotated counterclockwise after the impact, and came to rest within lane three, facing northeast. V2 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 75-year old male drove V1. He said he stopped at the exit for several minutes. He never saw V2 prior to the impact, but said it must have been traveling at a high rate of speed. He was coming from his residence, stopped by a donut shop and was heading for an unknown destination. He said he was in relative fair health, did not say if he takes medication and was hard of hearing, without using a hearing aid. One of his sons at the scene told the researcher they have been trying to convince the driver to quit driving for years. The driver himself used a walker to get around and seemed very slow moving. He said he usually doesn't drive much in this area and said he came directly from a donut shop.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other; leaving driveway, turning left. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). The driver failed to detect V2 coming from his left.

An 18-year old male drove V2. He stated he was in the first lane, traveling at a normal rate of speed when V1 crossed the road in front of him. He applied his brakes and steered to the left to avoid a collision. This driver said he did not see V1 until it was in front of him. He was heading to home from work. He has diabetes and takes medication but is otherwise in good health. He drives on this roadway on a daily basis. He was not in a hurry and was well rested.

The critical pre crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from driveway, turning into opposite direction. No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle. This driver failed to look far enough ahead and detect V1 earlier. He did not have time to attempt any evasive maneuvers.