This two-vehicle crash occurred at a four-legged, signal controlled intersection with raised barrier curbs, sidewalks and pedestrian crosswalks present. The southbound approach curved slightly to the right and was level. There were five lanes present: two straight, a designated left turn lane and two northbound lanes. The westbound approach curved sharply to the right and was level. There were three lanes present: one lane to go straight, left or right; a designated left turn lane; and one eastbound lane. The north/south roadway had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph); the east/west roadway was posted at 56 kmph (35 mph). Setting was early afternoon hours on a weekday. Conditions were daylight, sunny and dry with moderate lunch hour traffic.

V1 was a 1994 Chevrolet Astro van minivan with one occupant traveling southbound, negotiating the right curve in lane one. V2 was a 2007 Lexus RX 350 utility vehicle with two occupants stopped in westbound lane one at a steady red traffic signal. V2 was the first vehicle in line at the red light. When V2's light changed to green, V2 proceed straight ahead. V1 and V2 entered the intersection at the same time. The front of V2 contacted the left side of V1 at a right angle (Event 1). The left side of V1 then contacted the right side of V2 in a side-slap fashion (Event 2). V1 then traveled 10 meters (33 feet) and departed the southwest corner of the intersection. V1 then traveled 4.7 meters (15 feet) and struck a large shrub with its front-end (Event 3). Just beyond the shrub was a 1.8-meter (6 feet) tall wooden fence. V1 contacted the fence with its front-end (Event 4) then traveled into a private residential backyard. V1 steered left in the yard and contacted the fence again with its front end (Event 5). V1 then backed up several meters and came to final rest facing south 23.1 meters (76 feet) from impact point. V2 came to final rest facing south in southbound lane one, 18 meters (59 feet) south of impact point. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 56 year-old male who was not injured in the crash. He was traveling from his job site back to the main office. He was in lane one traveling approximately 72 kmph (45 mph). He said as he approached the intersection, the light changed from green to yellow. Once he was in the intersection, V2 struck him on the left side. The driver noticed V2 just prior to impact and attempted to steer right, but never hit the brakes. The driver saw a utility pole to the right, so he steered around that, causing him to jump the curb, hit some shrubs, then crash through a wood fence, coming to final rest in the backyard of a private residence. The driver did not speak English, so a co-worker/boss showed up on-scene and translated the interview. He said none of the 350 lbs cargo in the rear shifted during the crash events. His vehicle was drivable and was driven away from the scene.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. This driver failed to stop for a traffic control signal, an illegal maneuver. The vehicle was not completely inspected, therefore it was unknown if there were any vehicle factors. No roadway or environment factors were coded.

The driver of V2 was a 49 year-old female who received minor injuries in this crash. She had left home 20 minutes prior to take her 16 year-old daughter to have her wisdom teeth surgically removed. She reported being stopped at the intersection with a red light. The two were talking to each other about the surgery. She was first in line, so when the light changed to green, she looked both ways; it appeared all traffic was stopped, so she proceeded straight across. All of a sudden she was striking the left side of a van in the intersection. She later stated that the traffic in southbound lane two was backed up causing her to not be able to clearly see what was coming down lane one. She said that after impact, her car spun around counterclockwise and re-struck the left side of V1 with her right side. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "this vehicle traveling, passing through (crossing over) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "inadequate surveillance" - a driver error. Her decision to cross with an obstructed view was a decision error. She was talking to her daughter prior to the crash occurring, a recognition error. The vehicles stopped in southbound lane two were coded as a sightline restriction for this driver.