This crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a 6-lane highway intersection that is divided by a median with no positive barrier. There were four southbound lanes and 2 northbound lanes. The bituminous roadway was dry, straight, and level with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). It was the mid-morning on a weekday with no adverse atmospheric conditions. The traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 2006 BMW 525I 4-door with one occupant was southbound in lane one. V2, a 1996 GMC Yukon 4-door with 3 occupants was stopped at the edge of the intersection in lane 2. When the traffic light turned green V2 turned right from lane two cutting directly in front of V1. The front of V1 struck V2 on its right side. V2 then rolled left two-quarter turns and spun about 90 degrees before coming to final rest in the eastbound section of the intersection. V1 came to rest in the middle of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 41-year-old female, was transported due to injuries. She advised that she was traveling in lane two when she saw V2 sitting at the intersection and the TCD was red. She then stated that the TCD turned green so she decided to take lane one since it was clear. As she approached the intersection V2 turned right in front of her. She said she slammed on her brakes and steered right but it was to late.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane (same direction) over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associated factors coded to the driver of V1 and he was not thought to have contributed to the crash.

The driver of V2, a 19-year-old female was transported due to injuries. The driver's father did not want her interviewed prior to consultation with an attorney. The only information he could provide was that his daughter was on her way back to the house when she noticed that she needed gas and decided to turn into the nearest gas station. He said that the driver did not see V2 coming down the street but her passenger did. He passenger attempted to alert her to the presence of V1 but it was too late and V2 was struck on the side.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded this vehicle traveling, turning right at intersection. The Critical Reason was coded as a driver related error, an illegal maneuver (turning from the wrong lane). Associated factors include an internal distraction (conversing with passengers) and a decision error (turning without signaling).