This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. Both trafficways are straight and divided by a curbed median. The westbound approach consists of one through lane and a left turn lane and has a downhill grade. The northbound approach is level and consists of two through lanes and a left turn lane. The speed limit for these roadways is 89 kmph (55 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Chevrolet 2500 van, was westbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Ford Explorer, was northbound in lane one. In the intersection, the front of V1 struck the right side of V2. The vehicles rotated and the left side of V1 struck the right side of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-six-year-old male, was on his way home from work. He was healthy, well rested and comfortable with his vehicle and cargo. He travels this route daily. He takes the medications Metformin, Advicor and Lisinopril. This driver stated that he did not see V2 prior to the crash.

The driver of V2, a twenty-eight-year-old male, was running a work-related errand. He was well rested, healthy and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that he was "...lost in thought ... just spacing off."

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical event for V2 was not coded to this vehicle. This driver's daydreaming, inadequate surveillance and failure to obey a traffic control device were associated factors in this crash.