This two-vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane residential roadway with one lane in each direction for north and southbound traffic. This roadway curves to the east, is bituminous and downhill with a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours and it was cloudy and raining at the time. The traffic flow was moderate. Through the curve, solid double yellow lines mark the centerline of the roadway.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Freightliner single-unit straight van delivery truck with one occupant, was parked on the east side of the roadway facing north. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Ford Focus with one occupant was northbound in lane one. V1 started from the parking lane to make a U-turn and entered the northbound lane and crossed into the southbound lane. The driver of V2 was negotiating the curve and saw V1. The driver of V2 steered left and applied the brakes and skidded 22.7 meters (74.5 feet) before the front of V2 struck the left side of V1. The vehicles stayed engaged approximately 6 meters (20 feet), coming to rest in the southbound lane on their wheels, V1 facing west and V2 facing northwest. V1 was driven from the scene and parked two blocks away. V2 was towed from the scene with moderate frontal damage. The driver of V2 was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 26 year-old male reported no injuries. He had just made a delivery and was on his way to make another one. He stated he was putting his lap and shoulder belt on at the time. He was well rested, drives this route daily for business and is very familiar with the vehicle. He has mild asthma and takes Singulair and Albuterol Aerosol. The driver was looking at his intended path of travel.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other, other (specified as: U-Turn - Entering right side of road from parking lane to make U-turn). The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: internal distraction, for putting lap and shoulder belt on. As associative factor included inadequate surveillance - the driver failed to look to rear (mirror) while making the U-turn. The driver attempted an illegal U-turn in a curve with solid double lines as a centerline.

The driver of V2 was a 16 year-old female who has been driving for 15 months and got the basic driver's education on-line. She had just left her boyfriend's house and was heading home. She was well rested, drives this route daily and is very familiar with the vehicle. She stated she has a "click murmur" and does not take medication for it. The driver stated she saw V1 stopped and then pulled out in front of her.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment, from parking lane. The critical reason was not coded to V2. Associated factors include: a false assumption that the other driver would yield the right-of-way.