The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a high occupancy, high volume, and high-speed interstate highway. There were five lanes running southbound with both right and left side paved emergency shoulders. There were concrete wall barriers separating the northbound traffic. The road widths were a standard 3.7 meters and the emergency-paved shoulders were 3.5 meters. The road was straight and level. The conditions were clear and dry on a weekday morning during rush hour. The posted speed was a 105 kmph (65 mph).

V1 was a 2003 Ford Excursion that was traveling southbound in lane four during morning rush hour. V1 was attempting to make a lane change into lane three when he stated that he saw a large 18-wheeler changing into the same lane. At this point the driver of V1 didn't want to hit the 18-wheeler so he steered back into lane four where traffic was stopped due to morning rush hour. V2, a 2007 Jeep grand Cherokee was stopped in lane four for backed up traffic. V2 then hit the back of V3, a 2001 Ford Ranger truck that was also stopped for traffic. V3 then hit the back of V4, a 2001 Honda Accord that was stopped in lane four. V1 and V3 were both towed due to damages. The driver of V3 was transported to the hospital with a neck injury. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 47-year-old male who was making a delivery for work. He stated that traffic was congested due to the morning rush hour and he was attempting a right lane change into lane three when he saw another vehicle changing into the same lane. His reaction was to steer left back into lane four to avoid a collision. He ended up hitting the back of V2 who had stopped for slowed traffic. The driver stated that it was either hit the Jeep in front of him or get hit by a large 18-wheeler. The driver was not injured and V1 was towed due to damages.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "other vehicle in lane stopped". The Critical Reason was a driver error, "incorrect evasive action". An associative factor was he was in a hurry to make a delivery for work. The driver chose the wrong evasive action, as he should have slowed for traffic instead of making a lane change. The driver was cited for the crash for failure to use due care.

V2 was driven by a 28-year old woman on her morning commute to work. The driver stated that she was stopped in lane four traveling southbound when she was hit from behind. The driver stated that she was hit from behind pushing her into V3 who was stopped in front of her. She was not injured and her SUV was not towed due to damages.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other vehicle in lane traveling with a higher rate of speed". The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle, as she was not thought to have contributed to the crash. There were no associative factors related to this vehicle.

V3 was driven by a 53-year-old male on his way to make a work delivery. He stated that he was fully stopped in lane four when he was hit from behind pushing him into V4. He stated that the impact was so hard he was scared his neck was broken; He was transported to a local hospital with injuries. V3 was towed due to damages.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle, as he was not involved in the first harmful event. There were no associative factors related to this driver.

V4 was driven by a 26-year-old woman on her way to school. The driver was stopped in lane four when she was hit from behind by V3. V4 was not towed and she was not injured.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle, as he was not involved in the first harmful event. There were no associative factors related to this driver.