The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a two-way, ten-lane interstate roadway, which was physically divided by a concrete curbed median. There were five northbound lanes, with a posted speed of 105 kmph (65 mph). This was a straight, level, and asphalt roadway. Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was periodically congested due to the mid-day rush hour.

V1, a 2003 Toyota Camry with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane four. V2, a 2005 Honda S2000 convertible with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane five (HOV lane), ahead of V1. Surrounding traffic suddenly and unexpectedly slowed, causing V1 and V2 to take evasive action. V1 began to move to the left, toward lane five. V2 also began to move to the left, toward the emergency shoulder. The two vehicles made contact in lane five. The left side of V1 made contact with the right side of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

The Toyota Camry was driven by a 33-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he was on his way back to his office from a meeting with a client. The driver said that traffic was somewhat congested, moving within a range of 40 to 50 mph (64 to 80 kmph), when two vehicles on either side of him merged together in front of him. According to the motorist, the two vehicles cut him off, forcing him to take avoidance actions. The driver was unsure whether or not he maintained control of his vehicle as he moved into the HOV lane. The driver thought he might have blown his left front tire while fishtailing back and forth on the roadway, and perhaps hit the concrete wall with the left front side of his car. He did not recall making contact with the driver of V2 at any point in the crash sequence, and indicated that he never saw the other vehicle.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on left side of travel lane". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related decision error, incorrect evasive action. In order to achieve crash avoidance, the driver of V1 should have reacted differently to the situation. One associated factor for this motorist was decision-related. Based on the driver's speed and following distance, he was following too closely, most likely due to the sporadic congestion. This assignment is based on the belief that traffic slowed suddenly, versus the driver's claim that he was cut off. Additionally, there was the presence of a highway-related traffic flow interruption factor, in the form of rush hour congestion.

The Honda S2000 convertible was driven by a 26-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he was on his way from his house to a salon, traveling about 65 mph (105 kmph) in the HOV lane. The driver said that surrounding traffic suddenly slowed down to less than 30 mph (48 kmph), forcing him to hit his brakes and steer left, toward the emergency shoulder. The motorist instinctively looked into his rearview mirror, and saw two vehicles behind him doing the same thing. Concerned that traffic behind him would not be able to stop in time, he did not move completely over onto the emergency shoulder. At that moment, someone whom he had not previously seen hit him.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane (same direction), over the right lane line". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. As with V1, there was the presence of a highway-related traffic flow interruption factor, in the form of rush hour congestion.