This two-vehicle crash occurred at a four-legged intersection. The north/south trafficway is divided by a curbed median. The southbound approach lanes are straight, level and consist of three through lanes. The speed limit for this roadway is 54 kmph (35 mph). The intersecting east/west roadway is a two-way, two-lane, undivided and curves left in the westbound direction. Stop signs control traffic on this roadway at the intersection. The speed limit is 48 kmph (30 mph) for this roadway. The road surfaces were dry and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash. It was early afternoon on a weekend and there was medium traffic on the roadways.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Honda Accord, was traveling west in the first lane of traffic, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Ford Explorer Sport Trac, was traveling south in the first lane. In the intersection, the front of V2 struck the right side of V1. V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest within the intersection, facing southwest. V2 rotated clockwise after the impact and came to rest within the intersection facing southwest. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

A 51-year old female drove V1. At the time of the crash she was in good health and did not take any medications. She stated that she had left church earlier and was cruising in the area with no particular destination, looking at houses for sale. Her last stop was a store 4.8 km (3 miles) north of the crash site. This driver stated that she stopped at the stop sign (but did not know how long she was stopped) and did not see V2 prior to the crash.

The critical pre crash event was coded "this vehicle traveling-passing through an intersection." The critical reason for the critical event was coded "driver related error - inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see)."

A 40-year old male drove V2. He was not interviewed.

The critical pre-crash event was coded "other vehicle encroaching into the lane, from crossing street, across path." No critical reason was coded to this vehicle.