The crash occurred on a two way, two-lane road that ran east/west in a residential area. The road was straight and level with no shoulders and a negative 38.5% grade/side-slope at the run off road area. There were driveways, mailboxes, shrubs and intersecting side-roads on the south side of the roadway. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph). Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight and dry in the early evening on a weekday.

V1 was a 1998 Ford Escape SUV 4x4 that was traveling east on the road when it departed the right roadside, and struck 1st a mailbox, then a shrub in a front yard to a residence on the roadway, both of these impacts were with its front. Then it hit an embankment with a positive grade of 21.4% (with its undercarriage) at the edge of a side-road that intersected the east/west road from the south. It then crossed the road and entered another yard striking another shrub with its front and came to rest in that yard facing southeast. V1 was towed from the scene Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

A witness had observed V1 several miles from the crash area and had been following it giving information to police about the drivers' activities because she witnessed the driver and passenger physically fighting and could hear them yelling at each other. She said that V1 was "all over the road" and was speeding, and braking hard at intervals.

V1 was driven by a 30-year-old belted female who was transported to an area hospital with non-incapacitating injuries. Police also arrested her along with her right front 39-year-old female passenger. The driver was combative with police and her speech was heavily slurred. The passenger claimed in the interview to have been asleep at the time of the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side". The Critical Reason was coded as "internal distraction". The driver had several drugs in her system at the time of the crash including some illegal drugs and others she did not have prescriptions for. She was also taking several medications for emotional/anti-psychotic issues. Driver 1 was coded as inattentive, thought focus unknown. She was also coded as too fast based on the witness statement. The driver was also coded as having poor directional control. This was her 1st time driving the vehicle as it was a rental that she was not the insured driver on and the passenger was the insured occupant although not listed on the police report (P1-the insured had allowed D1 to drive). A roadway factor of no shoulders was also coded to this case. The driver was not taking the following medications that were prescribed to her: Lithium, Paxil, Lamictal, Zantac, Geodon, Abilify, Xanax, Hydrocodone, Paroxetine.