This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The north/south roadway is undivided and level. The southbound approach is straight and consists of two through lanes and a left turn lane. The east/west trafficway is straight and divided by a curbed median. The westbound approach is level and consists of three through lanes and a left turn lane. The speed limit for these roadways is 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Toyota Camry, was southbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Audi A4 Quattro, was westbound in lane three. As V1 was turning left in the intersection, the front struck the front of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-three-year-old female, had picked up her fifty-four-year-old female friend at the airport and they were sightseeing. This driver was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. She rarely travels this route. This driver stated that she was talking with her passenger and that she entered the intersection on a green arrow but did not look to the side.

The driver of V2, a thirty-year-old female, was on her way home from a store. She was well rested, healthy, thirty-six weeks pregnant and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route weekly. This driver stated that, as she was driving along, she heard a sound like a window was open. She realized that the left rear door was open and she was trying to lock it when she proceeded through the intersection.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's inadequate surveillance was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "driver related factor; internal distraction."