This single-vehicle crash occurred on two way, two lane undivided north/south asphalt roadway. The highway has one-lane in each direction with a downhill grade. The roadway curves to the west. The posted speed limit is 72 kmph (45 mph). It was early afternoon on a weekend and the traffic was moderate. The traffic lanes had patches of packed snow and ice. There was snow blowing off of the mountains onto the roadway. The gravel shoulders had a thick layer of snow and graded snow was adjacent to the shoulders.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Chevrolet Equinox with two occupants, was traveling south behind a non-contact vehicle. The non-contact vehicle braked for traffic ahead, the driver of V1 also braked and steered right. V1 departed the right side of the road and then impacted a light pole with its front. The pole broke and V1 continued forward and came to rest on its wheels facing south partially on the shoulder. V1 was towed from the scene due to moderate damage to the front. The two occupants were not injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1.

A 51 year-old male drove V1, the Chevrolet Equinox. He stated he and his wife were visiting from out of state and were gambling for the weekend. They were on their way from a casino to the airport. There were no concerns, even though he had a flight reservation in a couple hours. He knew if the roads and traffic were too bad, and he didn't make the plane that there was another one later that evening. His wife was on the phone calling the airport to verify this and she was getting ready to hang up when the crash occurred. He stated a vehicle in front of him suddenly applied their brakes and he did too. The rental vehicle was a 2WD vehicle instead of the 4WD vehicle that he had requested. He stated he fishtailed and ran off the road and hit the light pole. He had only driven the vehicle several times and rarely drives the route. The driver is from a southern state where snow rarely occurs. He has very limited experience driving on packed snow.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others. The driver of the non-contact vehicle suddenly braked. The driver did not know how to drive on icy/snowy roads. He also stated several times that he wanted a 4WD vehicle and did not feel comfortable in the 2WD rental vehicle that was given to him. He did not adjust his speed or forward gap to traffic for the road conditions due to his inexperience with the vehicle and driving in those conditions.