This crash occurred in the early afternoon of a weekday in the middle of an intersection between a five-lane divided roadway the driveway to a parking lot of a plaza. The intersection was controlled by a properly functioning traffic signal. The north/south roadway featured two lanes in each direction (with an additional designated right turn lane in the northbound direction) divided by a curbed grassy median. The bituminous roadway was dry, straight, and level with a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1996 Ford F-150 with one occupant was northbound in lane two approaching the intersection. V2, a 2000 Ford Crown Victoria with one occupant was exiting the shopping plaza. V1 was being chased by police and intentionally disregarded the traffic signal and entered the intersection. V2 entered the intersection and was struck on the left side by the front of V2. V1 came to final rest in the southbound lanes just beyond the intersection. V2 was redirected northward and came to a rest in lane one of the northbound lanes approximately 30 m (98 ft) beyond the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 43-year-old male was transported due to injuries. V1 had been driving with a shredded front left tire before the crash. Police on scene stated the driver was being chased by other police officers because he had struck other vehicles prior to this crash. They also stated that they found a crack pipe and other drug paraphernalia (associated with crystal meth) inside the vehicle, which suggested the driver being under the influence of drugs. Police had to forcefully subdue driver.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason was an illegal maneuver intentionally disobeying a TCD. The driver was attempting to evade police officers and was also under the influence of crack cocaine (and possibly other drugs). The driver also has a history of hypertension and an extensive criminal history that ranges from drug use, soliciting of dangerous controlled substances, assault and attempted murder. Associated factors include aggressive driving, and a tire deficiency.

The driver of V2, a 36-year-old female was transported due to serious injuries to which would later cause her death. Friends of driver stated that she had just left the office to get herself and some of her co-workers something to eat from a fast food restaurant. She had stopped at another store that was across the street from the scene of the crash. Upon her departure from the shopping plaza, she was struck by V1 in the intersection. Co-workers on the scene stated that she was in good spirits that day and that she was excited about going on vacation with her husband on the following day.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There are no associated factors coded to V2 and the driver was not thought to have contributed to the crash.