This three-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The north/south roadway is straight and divided by a grass median. The southbound lanes have an uphill grade and consist of two through lanes, a left turn lane and a right turn lane. The northbound lanes have a downhill grade and consist of two through lanes, a left turn lane and a right turn lane. The east/west roadway is undivided and straight. The westbound approach has a downhill grade and consists of one through lane/left turn lane and a right turn lane. The speed limit for these roadways is 80 kmph (50 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 LeSabre, was stopped southbound in lane four. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Honda Accord, was northbound in lane three. Vehicle three (V3), a 2004 Honda Accord was stopped westbound in lane one. V1 entered the intersection turning left and the right side was struck by the front of V2. V3 started into the intersection turning right and debris from the first event struck the left side of V3. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, an eighty-six-year-old female, travels this route weekly and was familiar with her vehicle. She has congestive heart failure and hypothyroidism and takes the medications Lasix, Coumadin, Synthroid, Verapamil and Lyrica. This driver stated that she did not see V2 prior to the crash.

The driver of V2, a twenty-two-year-old female, was familiar with her vehicle. She stated that she applied the brakes when she realized that V1 was turning in front of her.

The driver of V3, a thirty-eight-year-old female, stated that she saw the crash between V1 and V2 and that the debris struck the left side of her vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."

The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded as "not involved first harmful event." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was "not coded to this vehicle."