This two-vehicle crash occurred in the late evening of a weekend in the southbound lanes a divided north/south roadway. The roadway consists of two lanes in each direction divided by a grassy median. The bituminous roadway was dry, straight, and level with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The traffic flow was normal, but it was cloudy and overcast at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1995 Lexus LS400 with one occupant, was northbound in lane one. V2, a 1998 Mitsubishi Diamante with five occupants and was southbound in lane two. As V1 continued northbound at a high rate of speed the driver lost control of the vehicle. V1 crossed over into lane two and then departed the roadway onto the median. V1 then entered the southbound lanes of traffic in the path of V2. V1 struck V2 head-on. V1 and V2 both came to rest in lane 2 of the southbound lanes at the point of impact. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 45-year-old male, was transported for treatment of minor injuries. Contact with driver has been unsuccessful as the driver was taken into custody after his release from the hospital. The PAR states that driver had been drinking and an investigation into driver's background shows a history of traffic violations. A witness on-scene stated that V1 was traveling at a high rate of speed and weaving in and out of traffic.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle control loss due to traveling too fast for conditions. The Critical Reason was a driver related factor, aggressive driving. Associated factors include the vehicle's speed, and the presence of alcohol in the driver's system.

The driver of V2, a 42-year-old female, was transported for treatment of minor injuries. The four other passengers were also transported for treatment of various injuries. The driver's 12-year-old daughter in the second row right seat died shortly after the crash due to her injuries. All three of the passengers in the second row of seating were not restrained. The driver refused to discuss the crash with anyone but law enforcement or her attorney.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other motor vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over the left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no known associated factors that could be coded to V2.