This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-leg, traffic signal-controlled intersection. On the south leg of the intersection the roadway is divided by a curbed median; and the northbound traffic lanes consist of a right-turn lane, two through lanes, and a left-turn lane. This roadway is straight and downhill, with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). On the north leg of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a curbed median, and the southbound traffic lanes consist of an implied right-turn/through lane, one through lane, and a left-turn lane. This roadway curves right and is level, with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred in the early afternoon on a weekday with moderate traffic flow.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Ford Taurus with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane four, the left-turn lane, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1990 Ford Aerostar with two occupants, was traveling southbound in lane one, approaching the intersection. The traffic light indicated a green light for both directions of travel and V1 proceeded to turn left. V2 entered the intersection at the same time. The front of V1 impacted the front of V2. It is unclear how the vehicles came to final rest since they were moved from traffic prior to the researcher's arrival on-scene. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1 and 0 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a seventy-three-year-old female, who was driving from a gambling town to her home. She stated that she saw V2 as she was approaching the intersection, and thought V2 was going to turn right. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route daily. She is in good health and takes Advair and Omeprazole on a regular basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions.

The driver of V2, a forty-five-year-old female, was driving to her home from helping her daughter, the right front passenger, clean a house. She was well rested and very comfortable with her vehicle, but drives this route rarely. She is in good health and takes no medications.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.