This three vehicle daytime collision occurred shortly past noon on a five lane curved, dry, asphalt roadway with an average of 4% up hill grade for south bound traffic. The roadway is designated 72 kmph (45 mph). There is a on-color signal at the intersection near the south part of the crash scene.

Vehicle one (V1) is a 2004 Audi A4 Quattro 1.8t 4-door sedan. V1 was driven by a twenty one (21) year old male with one passenger, they were traveling north in the number two lane. Vehicle two (V2) is a 2007 Kia Spectra EX 4-door sedan driven by a forty six (46) year old female. V2 was traveling south in the number one lane. Vehicle three (V3) is a 2003 Chevrolet Tahoe 4-door large sport utility driven by a thirty nine (39) year old female. V3 was traveling south in the number two lane. As V1 departed several travel lane to the left and crossed over the center lane towards oncoming traffic its left p. V1's left plane contacted V2's left plane. V1 continued in a northeast direction impacting V3's front plane with its front plane. V1 continued northeast where it came to rest facing northeast at the east curb. V3 rotated counter clockwise to face northeast in the center lane. V2 was driven to the east curb and parked after realizing there was damage to her vehicle. V1 and V3 were towed with major damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the left side of travel lane. The critical reason was assigned to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: inattention (i.e., daydreaming). The driver & passenger were conversing while listening to the radio. He never observed V2 prior to impact. They were on their way from his home to a friends house & he had concerns with family and personal relationships and was thinking about this personal problem. The driver was also fatigued and has trouble sleeping. He was so inattentive to the driving task that he ended up driving on the wrong side of the roadway towards oncoming traffic. Poor directional control was considered an associative factor.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. The driver of V3 takes birth control pills, yasmin, thyroid medication and synthroid.