The crash occurred in the eastbound lane of a two lane undivided roadway. There was one eastbound lane and one westbound lane. This was a curved roadway with an 80-meter radius, a 7.5 percent super elevation and a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). It was afternoon on a weekday and the skies were cloudy and it was raining off and on. Traffic flow was light and moving.

V1, a 1999 Ford Escort with one occupant, was traveling west. V2, a 2001 GMC Savana large van with one occupant, was traveling east. As V1 negotiated the curve, the vehicle skidded into the eastbound lane of traffic and the left front of V1 sideswiped the left side of V2. V2 was driven off the roadway, and V1 came to final rest within 3 meters of impact, blocking both lanes of traffic. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

V1, the Ford Escort, was driven by a 23-year-old female who was transported with a minor injury. She advised she was returning from the store and slid on the wet road into oncoming traffic.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle control loss due to traveling too fast for conditions. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was traveling too fast for conditions - the wet road and the tires on V1 were worn almost to state minimum specification. The driver believed the tires were new but upon inspection it was realized they were in need of replacement. Associated factors coded to the driver include fatigue; as she works 12 hours per day and had just moved to a new residence in the same week, work stress, and the weather. Two roadway related factors were also coded. First, the roadway did not meet AASHTO standards for a curve with a posted speed limit of 35 mph and a superelevation of 7.5 percent. Prior to the curve, the word "SLOW" was painted in white on the roadway, but there was no posted advisory sign. The roadway was also wet from the rain.

V2, the GMC van, was driven by a 41-year-old male who reported no injuries. He advised he was a plumber and was en route to a job and was struck by V1 on V2's left side. He refused an interview.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line. No Critical Reason was coded for this vehicle. Associated factors include the weather (rain) and the same roadway conditions as for V1.