This crash occurred in an intersection of an east/west roadway and a driveway into a shopping plaza. The east/west roadway was divided by a grass median with no positive barrier. There were 4 eastbound and 4 westbound lanes, each with a left turn lane. This was a straight, level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). It was a weekend during the early evening around dusk. There were no adverse weather conditions.

V1, a 1991 Chevy Blazer utility vehicle, was driven by an unknown male. V1 was traveling east in lane 4, the left turn lane, attempting to make either a left turn or a U-turn when the front left portion of V1 crashed into the left front side of V2. Following the crash, V1 fled the scene. V1 was later found parked and unoccupied 1/4 mile from the crash site in a parking lot of a nearby shopping plaza. The driver of V1 could not be found. It was unknown whether the driver was injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 2006 Toyota 4-Runner sport utility vehicle, was driven by a 42-year old female. She stated that she had been shopping for her daughter minutes prior to the crash. She had been traveling west in lane three, passing through the intersection when she felt a hard hit on the left side of her vehicle. Her vehicle began "wobbling" and she let it glide over to the side of the road, coming to rest on the left side of the road and partially on the median. When she exited her vehicle, she was approached by a person she assumed was the other driver. However, the other person was a witness who stated that she saw the whole thing. The driver was not injured.

The police officer on scene stated that they had no leads on the driver of V1, but informed the researcher that V1 had been stolen. Two witnesses, sitting in view of the crash scene, stated that they saw the driver of V1 flee the scene and park the vehicle 1/4 mile away from the site at another plaza and run away. Another witness, who had been driving west, followed V1, intending to get the tag numbers. This witness saw V1 pull into the parking lot of an adjacent shopping center, park V1, exit the vehicle, and then flee the scene.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling (other) making a U-turn." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was an unknown driver error. Since the vehicle was stolen, the driver may have been trying to park in the plaza to hide from law enforcement, possibly turning without caution at the intersection. Associated factors coded to the driver include inadequate surveillance (because he turned directly into the side of V2) and being in a hurry. Since the driver of V1 fled the scene, all other associated factors and details leading to the crash were unknown.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle encroachment from opposite direction, over left lane line." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associated factors coded to the driver of V2.