The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a roadway divided by a grass median. There were three lanes southbound and two lanes northbound until the point of impact, at which point the roadway widened to three lanes. This was a straight, level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). It was the early morning on a weekday and the road was dry, the sky was clear, and traffic flow was a bit congested with stop and go activity.

V1, a 2005 Dodge Neon 4-door with two occupants, was traveling northbound in lane 1. V2, a 2006 International tractor-trailer with one occupant, was stopped in lane 1 in front of V2. The front right of V1 struck the left rear of V2 as the driver of V1 attempted to avoid a collision by steering left. V1 had tried to swerve but was unsuccessful. After impact, V2 pulled over onto the right shoulder of the roadway. V1 came to a rest in lane 3, which was a left turn-only lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the 2005 Dodge Neon, was driven by a 17-year old male who had very minor injuries and was not transported. The driver was taking his final road test with the examiner in the vehicle with him. He advised that he was slowing down when his foot slipped off the brake and he struck the truck in front of him. The driver was not very talkative because he was worried that he might not get his license after causing a crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was a driver related error, poor directional control. He failed to control his vehicle with a skill ordinarily expected. Associated factors coded to this driver include inexperience, unfamiliarity with both the roadway and the vehicle, insufficient braking, and inattention due to being concerned about passing his road test.

V2, the 2006 International tractor-trailer, was driven by a 52-year old male who was not injured. The driver stated that he was stopped in the right lane waiting for the light to change. He stated that he felt like his truck jumped out of gear, but when he looked into his mirror he saw that his trailing unit had been struck.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to the driver.