This two-vehicle crash occurred on a curved stretch of a two-way, two-lane, north/south road with an intersecting Tee-intersection. There were no traffic control device for north/south traffic, east traffic had a stop sign. Northbound approach curved right was level, with a +2% super-elevation. Southbound approach curved left with an uphill +4% grade and a +4% super-elevation. This was a dark curve being that it is surrounded by tall trees that didn't let much morning light through. This crash occurred during dawn hours, 9 minutes prior to offical sunrise. It was a clear morning with light traffic and no other adverse atmospheric conditions.

VI, a 1990 Ford Ranger, compact pickup with one occupant was traveling northbound in lane one. V2, a 1994 Jeep Cherokee, two door, compact sport utility with one occupant was traveling southbound in lane one. An unknown large non-contact truck was driving southbound directly in front of V2. As VI approached the T-intersection, it intended on turning left. VI slowed down to allow the large truck to pass. Once the non-contact truck cleared the intersection, VI made its left turn and contacted the left front of V2 (event 1) in the intersection. After impact VI rotated approximateley 230 degrees counterclockwise, traveled 20 meters (66 feet) and came to final rest facing east, partially in northbound lane one, partially on the grass shoulder. V2 rotated counterclockwise, left 7.3 meter (24 feet) of yaw marks and came to final rest facing east, approximately 8.3 meters (27 feet) southwest of impact area. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.

The driver of VI, a 17 year-old male, was transported from the scene with minor injuries. He advised that he overslept and was running late for the start of his high school class. He said his truck usually takes 10 minutes and up to defrost the windows, but he didn't have time to pre-start it that morning. He got in his cold truck and headed to school. Even though he was running late, he claimed to have driven the speed limit the whole way. When he approached the T-intersection to make a left, there was a large truck coming from the opposite direction. He slowed down to 24 kph (15 mph). Once the truck passed, he made his left turn. He turned left into the left front of V2, which he never saw coming. He claims V2 didn't have its lights on, but it was light enough to where he didn't need them. His vehicle was towed with disabling damage.

The Critical Pre crash Event for VI was "This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical event was "Inadequate surveillance, looked but did not see." - a driver error. The driver of VI told me that he checked to make sure nobody was coming behind the large truck, but never saw V2. V2 not having its headlights on this dark dawn morning was an associated factor. This driver was in a hurry. He admitted to sleeping too late and being late for the start of high school. He had large speakers in his truck that he was listening too while driving. He felt drowsy when he started driving that portion of the trip. He takes medication daily to treat ADHD and insomnia. He reports engaging in heavy weight lifting 3 times weekly. He wasn't wearing his glasses at the time of crash; they are not required by the state for driving. Vehicle factors include, dirty window, low tread depth on all tires and over inflated tires.

The driver of V2, a 55 year-old male, was transported from the scene with minor injuries. He advised that he was driving to work like he did everyday his whole life. He was driving around the left curve at 72-80 kph (45-50 mph). He noticed VI in the opposite direction wanted to turn left, but had no clue they would turn into him. As he entered the intersection, VI turned and struck his left side, causing him to spin out and become pinned in his vehicle. He claimed to have not turned his headlights on because it was light enough out where he didn't need them on to see. His vehicle was towed with disabling damage.

The Critical Pre crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor was failing to turn headlights on. Even though it was light enough to see, his dark colored vehicle made it difficult for other drivers' to see him. He made a false assumption that the driver of VI would yield the right of way to him. He reported suffering from high blood pressure and diabetes and takes prescription medication to treat the same.