This single vehicle roadway departure crash occurred on a two lane, two-way roadway,during early morning daylight hours. There is one northbound lane one southbound lane that is not separated. This was a straight level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). This crash occurred in a residential area the road was dry and the sky was clear.

Vehicle one (V1) was a 1998 Ford Escort 2 door coupe with one occupant V1 began from a stopped position in the driveway and started to backup across the roadway in a northwesterly direction. V1 then pulled forward striking a curb on the left side of the roadway, and then struck a small bush and pole on the grass area between the sidewalk and the curb. The pole punctured the oil pan disabling the vehicle. The vehicle came to rest partially on the side walk facing in a northwesterly direction. After the crash, V1 was pushed back to the owners residence about 4 houses south of the crash location. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1.

The forty six (46)year old female drove V1. She stated that she got into her daughters vehicle to back it out of her driveway and park it on the right side of the roadway. She was intending on taking her car to the pharmacy to get more medication. She said that her daughter's car was parked behind hers. She said that the only thing she remembers was backing out of her driveway. She said that she went to bed last night about 2200 hours and got out of bed at about 0600 hours. She said that she did not sleep very well last night because her back was hurting her. She said that she woke up several times throughout the night and could not recall how much sleep she actually got. She took multiple medications this morning at about 0630 hours: Balcofen, Lipitor, Hydrocodone a APAP, Fludrocortisone, Amitriptyline,Topomax, Linisopril, Atenolol, Cozaar and Lexapro. She said that she has three hernias in her back for the last 2 years. She said that she is disabled and does not work. Police conducted a blood test and the results were negative.

The critical pre-crash event coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason was coded as a driver related factor: heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act. The driver blacked out prior to the crash. An associated factor was the medication and its effects on the driver that the driver had taken prior to the crash. Another associated factor is the amount of sleep the driver got the night before. The total amount of sleep could not be determined but she did say that she did not sleep very well and could not recall the hours of sleep she got.