This three-vehicle crash occurred in a traffic signal-controlled intersection in an interchange area. The north/south roadway is level, straight and divided by a curbed median. The southbound lanes consist of four through lanes. The northbound lanes consist of one through lane and a left turn lane; the right through lane is closed for road construction. The speed limit on this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Ford F350 pickup, was northbound in lane two, the left turn lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Chevrolet Malibu, was southbound in lane three and vehicle three (V3), was southbound in lane two. V1 turned left at the intersection and the front struck the left side of V2. V2 rotated slightly counterclockwise and the right back side struck the left side of V3. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a fifty-six-year-old female, was traveling from her home to school. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route monthly. This driver stated that her traffic signal was green, but she did not know if it was a protected left arrow. She further stated that she did not see V2 prior to the crash.

The driver of V2, a fifty-one-year-old male, was traveling with a twenty-seven-year-old female passenger. This driver was not interviewed; no further information is available for this driver.

The driver of V3, a thirty-three-year-old female, was traveling, with four passengers, from home to lunch. She was well rested, healthy and comfortable with her vehicle and passengers. This driver travels on this roadway monthly.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded: other; not involved first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.