This crash occurred at the intersection of two roadways. The north/south roadway was a two-way, eight-lane street, divided by a curbed median. The east/west roadway was a two-way, five-lane undivided street. These were straight, level, bituminous roadways, with posted speeds of 64 kmph (40 mph) in all directions. Conditions were dark with streetlights on a weekend evening. The roads were dry and skies were clear. The traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 1991 Mazda 626 with one occupant, was eastbound in lane three (the designated left turn lane). V2, a 1991 Chevrolet Caprice with one occupant, was westbound in lane two. Both vehicles were approaching the same intersection. As the two vehicles entered the intersection, V1 attempted to make a left turn. The front of V2 made contact with the right side of V1. Both vehicles came to final rest in the middle of the intersection. V1 was towed due to damage while V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

The driver of V1, a 38-year old male, was not injured. He stated that he was on his way home from a friend's house. He said that as he approached the intersection, his light was green. However, he could not immediately turn left due to traffic. The driver indicated that he entered the intersection, but stayed in his travel lane, allowing traffic to clear. While the driver was waiting in the intersection, his light turned yellow. Once the driver was confident that oncoming traffic was slowing for the light, he proceeded to initiate the left turn. It wasn't until he was in the path of V2 that he realized that the other driver had preceded through the yellow light.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, turning left at the intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related decision error, false assumption of other's actions. The driver saw the oncoming vehicle, but assumed it was going to stop and yield the right of way. A tire deficiency was coded as an associated factor as the tread depth of rear tires was dangerously low.

The driver of V2, a 29-year old female, was not injured. She stated that she was on her way from her house to Wal-Mart on an errand. The driver said that as she approached the intersection, her light was green. She confirmed that the light might have been yellow by the time she got to the light. The driver indicated that she never saw the other vehicle prior to impact. To her, it seemed as if V1 suddenly appeared in front of her.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over the left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. One associated factor for this driver was recognition related. The driver looked, but did not see V2 as she approached the intersection. A physical factor for this driver was the presence of a high blood pressure condition, for which the driver takes medication.