This two-vehicle crash occurred in the afternoon of a weekday in the northbound lane of a multi-lane divided highway. The roadway runs north and south with three lanes for each direction, a grass median divider, and a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). At the location of this crash, an intersecting secondary roadway runs east/west. There are no traffic controls for the main north/south thoroughfare for this secondary road but there is a stop sign for westbound vehicles.

V1, a 2001 Toyota Corolla with one occupant, was northbound in lane one approaching the intersecting road where it intended to go straight. V2, a 2005 Honda Accord EX with two occupants, was southbound in lane 3 traveling toward the same intersecting road where it intended to turn left. V2 turned left across the northbound traffic and collided with the front V1 in northbound lane 1. Following the first collision, the left side of V1 side slapped the right side of V2. Both vehicles were towed from the scene but only V1 was towed due to disabling damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 44-year-old female, was transported from the scene due to minor injuries. She was driving north in lane one at approximately 50 mph (80 kmph) when V2 turned across her path. She saw V2 as it crossed the northbound lanes and she tried to stop before she struck it in the right front quarter panel. She could not remember if the traffic in lanes 2 and 3 were stopped or slowing but she said there were other northbound cars on the road. She is somewhat familiar with this roadway even though she only recently moved to the area.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle and no other associated factors were included for V1.

The driver of V2, a 74-year-old female who went to the hospital with her husband but she was not injured and refused to discuss the anything about the crash. A witness to the crash said the vehicle ahead of him stopped and waived V2 across the roadway.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as a false assumption of other's actions (assuming traffic would yield right-of-way). There were no other known associated factors that could be coded to V2.