This single-vehicle crash occurred on a state highway with no controls. South of the crash site, the roadway is undivided with two lanes of travel, one in each direction, northbound and southbound. This roadway is level, curves right, and has a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph) and an advisory speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph) for the curve. This crash occurred in the early afternoon hours on a weekday with moderate traffic flow. The roadway was icy due to a heavy snowfall the day before.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Jeep Cherokee with three occupants, was traveling northbound in lane one, negotiating the curve. Seeing the condition of the roadway, the driver of V1 let off the accelerator in an attempt to slow down. V1 started to lose control (fishtailing), while still negotiating the curve. The curve was ending as V1 started to rotate clockwise. The driver of V1 steered to the right, into the rotation. V1 departed the roadway on the right, still rotating clockwise, after the curve had ended. V1 went down a steep embankment and began to roll over, leading with its left side. V1 rolled for five quarter turns and came to final rest on its left side in a shallow creek, facing northwest. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1, a sixty-six-year-old male, was driving from his home to a gambling town. Although he has sleep apnea and wakes up fatigued in the morning, he stated that he felt rested at the beginning of the trip. He is very comfortable with his vehicle and said that the passenger load of two occupants made no difference; he drives this route several times a month. He has type II diabetes and hypertension, for which he takes several medications including: Metformin, Atenolol, Lisinopril, Rosiglitazone, and Rosuvastatin, as well as aspirin and vitamins. He has an unknown vision impairment, but was wearing his glasses at the time of the crash. The tires on V1 had sufficient tread depth, but were all underinflated.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: too fast for conditions (too fast for icy roadway and curve). Sleep apnea, conversing with passenger, and slick surface (low friction due to icy condition) were coded as associative factors for V1.