Case Summary 2007-43-173

This two-vehicle multi-event crash occurred at an undivided urban signal controlled four-legged intersection near a college university. There were pedestrian crosswalks and raised barrier curbs surrounding all legs of the intersection. Northbound approach contains six lanes, curves right and has a slight downhill profile. Southbound approach contains five lanes, is straight with an uphill profile. The posted speed limit is 64 kph (40 mph). Setting was early afternoon hours on a weekday. Conditions were daylight, dry and sunny. Traffic was described as moderate due to the afternoon lunch rush. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

V1 is a 1996 Jeep Grand Cherokee, utility with one occupant traveling northbound in lane two. V2 is a 2003 Toyota Tundra, large pickup with one occupant traveling southbound in lane three, the left turn lane. V2 slowed in its travel lane and began to initiate its left turn. V2 turned left in front of V1. The front plane of V1 contacted the right plane of V2 (Event 1) in the intersection. The impact caused V2 to be pushed laterally and slightly clockwise before eventually overturning one quarter turn onto its left side (Event2) where it came to final rest facing south five meters from where the roll began; 10.8 meters (35 feet) from initial impact point. V1 deflected right after impact and came to rest approximately 7.1 meters (23 feet) from impact area facing east. V1 was removed from the scene prior to my arrival. Both vehicles were towed from the scene with disabling damage.

The driver of V1 is a 26 year-old male who suffered minor injuries in this crash, but was transported to the hospital for treatment. He says he was out running work related errands. He came from a location about five minutes up the road and was heading toward the downtown area. As he was coming around the right curve in the right straight lane, he noticed a solid green light for his direction, so preceded forward at a steady speed. He said all of a sudden a vehicle from the opposing direction made a left turn in front of him. He knows he applied the brakes, but it all happened so quickly there was nothing else he could do to avoid a crash. He couldn't remember if there were cars in the lanes to his left, possibly blocking either driver's vision of each other. He did report traffic flow as medium due to the lunch hour rush.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 is “other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over the left lane line.” The Critical Reason was “not coded to this vehicle.” The two rear tires were both under-inflated, a tire deficiency factor. There may have been a vehicle in northbound lane three, to the left of V1 that obstructed his sightline view of V2. The driver was unable to recall if a vehicle was present or not, so it was coded unknown. The heavier than normal lunch rush hour traffic likely contributed to this crash.

The driver of V2 is 60 year-old male who was transported from the scene after a lengthy extrication by the fire department. He is from out of state and was unable to be contacted for an interview. The driver of V1 told me after the crash he went to assist this driver out of his overturned vehicle but the driver kept yelling at him, telling him he was speeding, and he was the cause of the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 is “this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection.” The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was “unknown.” Since this driver was not interviewed, it is unknown why he made a left turn in front of V1. The driver is from out of state and possibly not familiar with the roadway, but can't be confirmed. The driver also likely either didn't see V1 or misjudged V1's travel speed. The heavier than normal lunch rush hour was the only known associated factor.