Case Summary 2007-43-195

This two-vehicle rear-end crash occurred at a residential, four-legged, signal-controlled intersection with pedestrian crosswalks and sidewalks present. This is a major north/south artery that is used to access downtown. There are four traffic lanes divided by a curbed grass median, landscaped with large trees. Southbound traffic lacked a dedicated left turn lane. The posted speed limit in the area is 56 kph (35 mph). Setting was evening rush hour on a weekday. Conditions were dark with overhead amber lighting, dry and clear. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

V1 is a 1995 Ford Escort, four-door hatchback with three occupants traveling southbound in lane two. V2 is a 1999 Ford Expedition, large utility with five occupants traveling southbound in lane two, directly in front of V1. V2 slowed down in its traffic lane due to cars stopped in front of it waiting to turn left. V1 left 14.1 meters (46 feet) of pre-impact skid marks before contacting the rear of V2 with its front-plane. Both vehicles were pushed forward after impact coming to final rest several feet from the impact point. V1 was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage. V2 was driveable suffering only minor damage.

The driver of V1 is a 23 year-old female who reported no injuries on-scene but called EMS for transport an hour after she went home. She is a full-time hotel worker who works the same hours every week, but varying days depending on when they need her. She had the day off and spent it at the mall doing Christmas shopping with her friends. They had left the mall 10 minutes prior and were heading back to a friend's college dorm. She reported listening to the radio while driving, as well as listening to her friend talk on her cell phone. She was in lane two traveling an estimated 72 kph (45 mph), when all of a sudden; V2 came to a quick stop in front of her. She noticed V2's front-end nose dive and rear-end come up, that's how she knew they came to a quick stop. She applied the brakes, locking them up and braced the steering wheel to prepare for a collision. She remembers seeing a green light as she approached the intersection, but was caught off guard when traffic suddenly came to a halt in front of her.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling the same direction while decelerating.” The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was “Internal Distraction,” a driver error. She told me that she was listening to the radio, as well listening to her friend's telephone conversation. This drew her attention away from her driving task. She was also traveling too fast for conditions, didn't realize caution was needed. This is the only intersection along this roadway that doesn't have a dedicated left turn lane. She was caught off guard when traffic came to an abrupt stop despite their being a green light at the intersection. She suffers allergies and takes an over-the-counter medication. She rarely drives this roadway and was not familiar with the traffic flow in this area. The front tires of V1 were over-inflated, a tire deficiency factor. The cars stopped in front of them were coded as a traffic flow interruption factor for both drivers. The lack of a left turn lane was coded as a roadway related factor because there is adequate room for a lane to be added, and because they added a left turn lane for northbound traffic several years ago.

The driver of V2 is a 36 year-old female who was not injured in this crash. She is from Mexico and doesn't speak English, so her daughter and husband had to translate the interview for me at the scene. She is a stay at home mom with four children to care for. On this day, she woke up at 06:30 after sleeping 8.5 hours to drive her children to work. She then came home and napped from 07:00 to 10:00. She has no medical problems and doesn't take any medications. She had just dropped her husband off at work 15 minutes prior, and was heading to a restaurant to eat with her family. She was driving straight when traffic in front of her slowed and stopped in her lane with their left turn signals on. All she could do was brake hard and wait for them to turn because the right lane contained heavy fast moving traffic, preventing her from passing the stopped cars. As soon as she stopped, she heard screeching tires, so looked in her rearview mirror and saw V1 coming toward her at a high rate of speed. She had no reasonable avoidance maneuvers. The impact caused them to be pushed forward an estimated 2 meters (6 feet).

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 is “Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling the same direction with a higher steady speed.” The Critical Reason was “Not coded to this vehicle.” She reported having a family-related conversation with her daughter prior to the crash occurring. Her LR tire was under-inflated, a tire deficiency factor.