This crash occurred in the intersection of a four way signalized roadway. The north/south roadway had four lanes on the north side of the intersection and three lanes on the south side of the intersection. There were two southbound lanes one straight lane and one left turn only lane. There were two northbound lanes. The east/west roadway had four lanes that were divided by a grass median. Two eastbound and two westbound lanes. The all roadways were straight level and asphalt. The speed was posted at 56 kmph (35 mph). The weather was clear and sunny. The crash occurred in the early afternoon at midweek.

As vehicle 1 a 1994 Buick Regal GS was traveling south in lane two the driver was conversing with his passengers. As V1 entered the intersection the vehicle was contacted on its right side by vehicle 2 a 1999 Chevrolet Malibu that was traveling east in lane two. V1 then rotated clockwise and slid south to contact vehicle 3 a 1999 Chevrolet Cavalier on its front bumper with V1's left fender. V2 had rotated clockwise to face back to the west in the south center of the intersection. V1 came to final rest at the east curb and V3 rolled back to final rest in its original lane of travel. The passengers of V1 and the driver of V2 were transported to a local ER unit for there injuries. The driver of V1 and V3 were not injured in the crash. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage. V3 was drivable. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 21 year-old male that stated he was in good health drove V1. He also stated he is taking no medications and does not wear corrective lenses at this time. He stated he had gone to pick up a friend from school with his aunt and were on there way home traveling south in lane two. He stated they were conversing as they approached the intersection. He saw the light change to amber and thought he could still make the intersection. He stated the light must have changed to red and as he passed the midway point his vehicle was hit by the eastbound vehicle. He rotated clockwise then contacted V3 before coming to final rest at the east curb. He stated he was not injured in the crash but his friend sitting in the right front seat and his aunt in the right back seat were both injured and transported to the local trauma unit.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded “this vehicle traveling crossing over (passing through) intersection”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded driver related “recognition error - internal distraction”. The associated factor to this driver was talking with passengers as he approached the traffic light. Also the driver did see the traffic light turn amber and failed to yield.

A 17 year-old male that stated he is in good health drove V2. He also stated he is taking no medications and does not wear corrective lenses at this time. He stated he had gone home to drop off his schoolbooks after leaving the local skill center and was on his way to football practice. He was traveling east in lane two at the speed limit. He saw the light turn green so he continued towards the intersection and as he entered the intersection the southbound vehicle crossed his path. He stated he braked hard and steered to the right contacting V1 at its right side then rotating clockwise to face back to the west. He stated he did not feel he needed to be taken to the local ER unit. He stated after being interviewed on scene and waiting for the officer to clear him of the crash scene he started to feel very poorly and asked his mother to call for EMS to transport him.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded “other vehicle encroachment from crossing street across path”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The Associated factors to this driver were false assumption of other action. And inadequate surveillance assumed the other vehicle would yield right of way.

A 72 year-old female that stated she is in good health drove V3. She also stated she has just recently been diagnosed with lung cancer but is not taking medications at this time. She states she is wearing corrective lenses for hyperopic (far sightedness). She stated she was on her was to visit her sister in-law and then was going to go to her PO box for her mail. She stated she was in lane one traveling north. She stated as she approached the intersection she wanted to change lanes to make a left turn. She stated the vehicle ahead of her turned on the amber light then she heard a bang and saw a maroon vehicle sliding at her contacting her at her front left bumper with the left fender of V1. She stated she did not see the first impact of V1 and V2 and did not know their direction of travel. She stated she was not injured in the crash and her vehicle was not damaged to the point of having to be towed but the air bags did deploy.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V3 was coded other not involved first harmful event. The Critical reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The associated factors to this driver were that she was inattentive to the traffic ahead of her vehicle.