This crash occurred on a level bituminous straight two-lane roadway with a posted speed limit of 56KMPH (35MPH). This crash occurred at an intersection of a retail driveway. The weather was clear and the roadway was dry. This crash occurred on a weekday morning. Traffic flow was normal for that time of day.

Vehicle #1, a 1991 Honda Accord, was exiting the retail driveway and making a left turn onto the two-lane roadway when it was struck in the left side by Vehicle #1, a 1997 Chevrolet Lumina, which was heading south. Vehicle #2, after impacting Vehicle #1 with its front, then impact the rear left side of Vehicle #1 with its right side. Vehicle #2 continued across the northbound lane, off the roadway and impacted with a small fence. Vehicle #2 continued on and came to final rest facing east after impacting with the stoop and handrail of a house. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle #1, The Honda Accord, was driven by a belted 80-year-old male who was not injured. This driver he had looked but had not seen any cars so he went on to make a left and a car hit him. It should be noted here that the driver of this vehicle told the tow truck driver that Vehicle #2 had its turn signal on and he assumed it was turning into the retail lot. The driver of Vehicle #1 did not say this to the researcher at the scene.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was coded as: This Vehicle Traveling, Turning Left at Intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event for this Vehicle was coded as: Driver Related Factor, Inadequate Surveillance. (Failed to look, looked but did not see).

Vehicle #2, The Chevrolet Lumina, was driven by a belted 79-year-old female who received treatment at the scene for possible injuries. This driver stated she was driving on the road when a car came out in front of her suddenly. She stated she tried to avoid a collision by steering but it was too late. It should be noted here that this driver takes several medication for high cholesterol and diabetes. However, the side effects of these drugs do not cause drowsiness or dizziness and should not affect driving.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #2 was coded as: Other Vehicle Encroachment, From Driveway, Across Path. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle.

Police did not consider alcohol or illegal drugs to be a factor in this crash and ordered no tests.