The crash occurred in a signalized intersection of two roadways. The northbound roadway was one-way with one lane of travel. The east/west roadway was two-way with one lane of travel in each direction. The roadways were straight, level, bituminous with a speed limit of 48kmph (30mph). It was during the morning hours of a weekday.

V1, a 2004 Honda Odyssey minivan with one occupant, was traveling northbound. V2, a 2000 Ford F-550 M/H truck with four occupants, was traveling westbound in lane one. At the intersection, the front of V2 contacted the right side of V1. Both vehicles came to a final rest in the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Honda Odyssey, was driven by a 37 year-old male reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. He stated to the Police that he had the green light when he was impacted by V2. A witness who was in her vehicle traveling northbound two cars behind V1 advised that V2 disregarded the red light.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V1 was “Other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street across path”. The Critical Reason for the Critical event was not coded to this vehicle. The possible associated factors were also coded unknown because no interview was obtained.

V2, the Ford F-550, was driven by a 24 year-old male who reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. The 40 year-old male occupant in the right/front seat reported minor injuries and was not transported to a medical facility. The 43 year-old male and 24 year-old male occupants in the second row reported no injuries. An occupant of V2 stated that they had the green light, and V1 disregarded the red light.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V2 was “This vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection”. The Critical Reason for the Critical event was coded as a driver related factor, illegal maneuver. The associated factors coded to the driver were that he did not have the right-of way, and a decision factor, that he failed to stop for the traffic control device. The other possible associated factors were coded unknown.