This two-vehicle intersection crash occurred at a Tee intersection controlled by traffic signals. The east/west roadway is a five lane, divided, straight, level, concrete roadway with three westbound lanes. The speed limit is 48 kph (30 mph). The north/south roadway intersects from the north and is a two lane, straight, level, undivided asphalt roadway with a speed limit of 56 kph (35 mph). The westbound lanes consist of two through lanes, the first of which was closed due to construction. This crash occurred during daylight hours with light traffic. There were no adverse weather conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Chevrolet Suburban with two occupants, was stopped southbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Ford F-150 with one occupant, was westbound in lane three. V1 entered the intersection to make a left turn and the front of V1 struck the right side of V2. Both vehicle proceed southwest before coming to rest. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-seven year-old female traveling with a five year-old male, was traveling from her son's school to home. She was well rested, in good health and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. She drives this route daily. This driver stated that she was stopped for greater than ten seconds before she entered the intersection. The driver never saw V2 prior to impact. The driver claimed she looked left but did not see V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance."

The driver of V2, a fifty-one year-old male, was traveling from work to a second job. He was well rested, in good health and comfortable with his vehicle. He drives this route monthly. The driver stated that the light was green as he approached the intersection. He was listening to the radio, but otherwise not distracted.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."