This single-vehicle crash occurred in the evening of a weekday on a highway entrance ramp interchange. The interchange consisted of a 4-lane divided roadway and a highway entrance ramp. The main thoroughfare ran east/west with two lanes for each direction and a concrete island separating the lanes. The entrance ramp was for northbound traffic and there were no traffic controls at this intersection. The bituminous roadway was dry and straight with an uphill grade of 3 percent and a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The roadway was dark and unlit but there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 2002 Pontiac Grand Am GT 4-door sedan with one occupant, was westbound in lane one when the driver tried to make a right turn onto the ramp. V1 departed the left side of the ramp and struck a steel w-beam guardrail with its front. EMS was dispatched to the scene but the driver refused treatment. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1 was a 32-year-old male who was driving to a friend's house when he was involved in the crash. He reported that he was traveling west in lane one of this roadway when an eastbound truck suddenly turned left across his path. The truck's movement caused this driver to swerve to the right, drive off the roadway and crash into a guardrail. While this driver was cooperative, he also appeared disjointed and was rambling about how he "missed his exit," "drove all over the state today," and "could not believe the truck driver did not stop after the crash." After the interview was completed, the highway patrol arrived on scene and arrested the driver for being under the influence of alcohol. Police reported a BAC of .14. It was determined unlikely that a non-contact truck caused this crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle control loss due to traveling too fast for conditions. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded too fast for turn. The vehicle EDR revealed that 5 seconds prior to impact, V1 was traveling 75 mph with the brake on. Associated factors include alcohol use, inattention, inadequate surveillance (failing to see his intending destination until the last second), traveling too fast for turn, and combination of insufficient steering and braking.

This single-vehicle crash occurred in the evening of a weekday on a highway entrance ramp interchange. The interchange consists of a 4-lane divided roadway and a highway entrance ramp. The main thoroughfare runs east/west with two lanes for each direction and a concrete island separating the lanes. The entrance ramp is for northbound traffic and there are not any traffic controls at this intersection. The bituminous roadway is dry, straight and has a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The roadway was dark and unlit but there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 2002 Pontiac Grand Am GT with one occupant, was westbound in lane one when tried to make a right turn onto the ramp. V1 departed the left side of the roadway and struck a steel w-beam guardrail with its front. EMS was dispatched to the scene but the driver refused treatment. V1 was towed due to damage.

The driver of V1 is a 32-year-old male that was driving to a friend's house this evening when he was involved in this crash. He reports he was traveling west in lane one of this roadway when an eastbound truck suddenly turned left across his path. The other truck's movement caused this driver to swerve to the right, drive off the roadway and crash into a guardrail. While this driver was cooperative, he also appeared disjointed and was rambling about how he "missed his exit", "drove all over the state today", and "could not believe the other truck's driver did not stop after the crash". After I completed this interview the highway patrol arrived on scene and arrested this driver for being under the influence of alcohol. Researcher determined there was not a phantom truck that caused this crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded too fast for turn. Associated factors include alcohol present, inattentive, thought focus unknown, inadequate surveillance (failing to see his intending destination until the last second), traveling too fast for turn, and combination of insufficient steering and braking.