This three-vehicle crash occurred near a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The east/west trafficway is straight, level and divided by a curbed median. The eastbound approach consists of two through lanes, a right turn lane and a left turn lane. The westbound approach consists of two through lanes, a right turn lane and two left turn lanes. The speed limit for this trafficway is 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Dodge Ram pickup, was eastbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Volvo tractor/trailer, was stopped westbound in lane one and vehicle three (V3), a 2007 Pontiac G6, was stopped westbound in lane two. As V1 approached the intersection, its back left tire/wheel fell off. The tire/wheel rolled across the intersection and struck the left side of V2 and the top of V3. V1 and V3 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-five-year-old female, was traveling with a thirty-three-year-old male passenger. They were on their way from a tire shop to work. This driver was in good health, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. She has epilepsy, anxiety, panic attacks and cravings and takes the medications Depakote, Lexapro and Campral. She travels this route daily.

The driver of V2, a twenty-eight-year-old male, was on his way to the truck yard from making a delivery. He was well rested, healthy and comfortable with his vehicle and cargo. This driver stated that he saw the wheel/tire rolling across the intersection but was unable to avoid it. He travels this route daily.

The driver of V3, a forty-five-year-old female, was traveling with a forty-three-year-old female passenger. This driver was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. She travels this route daily.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other; back left wheel/tire fell off." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "vehicle related factor; tires/wheels failed."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "not involved first harmful event." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."

The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded as "not involved first harmful event." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was "not coded to this vehicle."