This two-vehicle crash occurred in a three-way intersection. On the east side of the intersection, the roadway is undivided and the westbound traffic lanes consist of a left and right turn lane. On the south side of the intersection, a raised island divides the roadway and the northbound traffic lanes consist of two through lanes and one right turn lane. This roadway is straight, uphill in both directions and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with evening traffic congestion.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Nissan Altima with only the driver present, was westbound in lane two preparing to turn left. Vehicle two (V2), a 1991 Jeep Wrangler with two occupants present, was northbound in lane two. V1 began to make its left turn as V2 was entering the intersection. V2's driver saw V1 and applied the brakes and attempted to steer left of V1. V2 impacted V1's left side with V2's front end. After impact V1 rotated clockwise and came to rest north of the intersection facing north in lane two. After impact V2 rotated counterclockwise slightly before coming to rest north of the intersection in lane three facing north. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a sixty-two-year-old female, was on her way home from shopping when the crash occurred. She stated she was stopped at the stop sign waiting for a black SUV non-contact vehicle that was traveling in the number one northbound lane to clear her line of sight before she entering the intersection. She started her left turn but never saw V2. She stated being rested, drives this route daily and is very comfortable with this vehicle. She also stated being in good health and takes no medications.

The driver of V2, a seventeen-year-old male, was coming from home and going to drop off his girlfriend at her house when the crash occurred. He stated being rested, drives this route daily and is very comfortable with this vehicle. The driver stated being in goods health despite his Asthma, which is controlled by an inhaler.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: turned with obstructed view. Inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see) was considered an associative factor.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.