This two-vehicle crash occurred in the eastbound lane of a two-lane road. This was a straight, level, bituminous, roadway, with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). It was early morning on a weekday during daylight hours. The westbound travel lane had ice with ruts while the eastbound lane was dry.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Nissan Pathfinder four-door SUV with two occupants, was westbound in lane one traveling straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Jeep Cherokee four-door SUV with three occupants, were eastbound in lane one traveling straight. V1 was traveling 40 kmph (25 mph) between the ruts on the icy road and lost control. V1 started to rotate counterclockwise and entered the eastbound lane. V2 was traveling 64 kmph (40 mph) and the driver noticed V1 coming into her lane. She steered to the right a little to avoid hitting V1. V1 impacted with its front to V2's front. V1 continued rotating counterclockwise and came to rest on its wheels facing southeast on the south shoulder and the eastbound lane. V2 rotated counterclockwise off the south shoulder impacting a barb wire fence with its right side. V2 came to rest on its wheels facing northwest in a field. Both vehicles were towed due to moderate frontal damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

A 28 year-old male who reported no injuries drove V1, the Nissan Pathfinder. He had left home and was commuting to work. He rarely drives this roadway, is from another country and is unfamiliar with driving on icy roads. He stated he was well rested and takes no drugs or medications. He also stated he had a drivers license from his country, but according to the police report he did not have one.

A 45 year-old female, who was transported to a trauma center with back injuries, drove V2, the Jeep Cherokee. She was well rested and had just left home to take both occupants, her children, to school. Prior to the crash, the driver and occupants were talking socially and the driver was not distracted. She is near sighted and was wearing her glasses and she takes vitamins on a regular basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the left side of the travel lane. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: too fast for conditions (specified as: driver was inexperienced driving on icy roads).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.