***CASE NOTE: Both drivers declined interviews based on the advice of legal counsel. All information obtained from on-scene personnel and researcher observation.

The crash occurred in the center of a four-way intersection composed of a three-lane north/southbound roadway, and a seven-lane east/westbound roadway. All roadways were dry, level and bituminous. The north/south roadway had a posted speed limit of 56 kph (35 mph). The east/westbound roadway had a posted speed limit of 80 kph (50 mph). The intersection was controlled by traffic lights on each corner. It was afternoon on a weekend. Traffic flow was moderate. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, a 2000 Mitsubishi Galant with one occupant, was traveling west when it entered the intersection without observing the traffic signal and struck V2 on the left side. The impact caused V1 to continue on where it struck the center median and then cross the eastbound traffic lanes before coming to rest. V2, a 2001 Ford Crown Victoria with two occupants, was traveling south when it attempted to cross through the intersection and was struck by V1. no avoidance maneuvers were attempted by either vehicle.

V1, driven by a 48-year-old female who reported a complaint of pain and was transported, stated to police that she was upset about her father's surgery, thought she had the green light and drove through the intersection. No avoidance maneuver was attempted.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "This Vehicle Traveling-Crossing over (passing through) intersection". The Critical reason for the Critical Event was "Driver Related Factor- unknown recognition error". The following associated factor was assigned. Performance related factor "Emotional-Upset".

The Driver of V2, a 44-year-old female, reported a complaint of pain and was transported to the hospital. The passenger of V2, a 17-yearold female who reported a complaint of pain, was transported to the hospital. Driver stated to police that she was stopped at the intersection and when the light turned green she proceeded through when V2 ran the signal and struck her on the left side. V1 made no avoidance maneuver.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment from crossing street across path". No Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were assigned.