This crash occurred at an intersection with electronic control signals and pedestrian signal. The roadway had five lanes of travel. Two in each direction with a left turn lane. The north/south roadway was straight level asphalt. The speed was posted at 64 kmph (40 mph). The westbound leg of the intersection was straight. The eastbound leg of the intersection had a left curve into the intersection. The radius of curvature was 281m. The super elevation was 1% The Speed was posted 56 kmph (35 mph).

As vehicle 1 a 2005 Chevrolet Trailblazer traveled south in lane one the traffic signal changed to red. As V1 traveled into the intersection the eastbound vehicle 2 a 2005 Ford F-150 entered the intersection being contacted by V1 in the left front. V2 then contacted vehicle 3 a 1994 Ford Ranger. V1 rotated counter clockwise and traveled across the intersection to final rest in the parking lot on the south east corner. V2 came to final rest at the point of impact and V3 drove through the intersection and turned into the same parking lot as V1 for final rest. The Drivers of V1 and V2 were not injured in the crash. The driver and occupant of V3 fled the scene on foot. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. V3 was towed but not because of damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 74 year-old male stated he is in good health drove vehicle 1. He stated he is taking medication for diabetes. He also stated he wears corrective lenses for reading only. He traveled into the area to pick up the vehicle from the auction lot to deliver it back to a dealership back where he lives. He stated he was following two other vehicles in lane one as they approached the intersection the light had changed to amber. He stated he thought he had plenty of time to make it through the intersection. The light must have turned red. He stated after contacting V2 he just braced for impacts with other vehicles as he traveled to final rest.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded “other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The associated factors to this driver were he was not familiar with the area and was watching the two vehicles he was following through town to the interstate. There also were hand held two-way radios in each vehicle for communicating with each other that may have been being used at time of crash. Driver stated he was not using two-way at this time.

A 61 year-old male stated he is in good health drove vehicle 2. He stated he is taking no medications at this time. He wears corrective lenses for myopic (near sightedness). He stated he was traveling east in lane two. He had just come from the Doctors office picking up medication for his mother. He stated as he came to the intersection the light was red and came to a stop. He stated after waiting for more than 10 seconds the light turned to green and he accelerated into the intersection to be contacted at the left front area of his vehicle. His vehicle was then pushed to the right to contact V3 which was entering the intersection at the same time. He stated his vehicle did not travel much past the point of impact to final rest.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded “this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded “inadequate surveillance”.

A 22 year-old male stated he is in good health and taking no medications at this time drove V3. He stated he was on his way to the Secretary of States office to get his license reinstated at the time of the crash. He stated as the traffic light changed to green he accelerated into the intersection along side V2. He said because his pick-up sat lower than V2's he did not see V1 coming into the intersection. He stated after being contacted he traveled through the intersection to the first driveway and turned into it. He was afraid of being arrested for no licenses and then fled on foot. He stated his mother then contacted the officers on scene and took him back to the scene of the crash. He was not injured in the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V3 was coded other not involved in first harmful event. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The associated factors to this driver were driving with a suspended license.