This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, stop sign-controlled intersection. Both roadways are undivided, level, straight and consist of one lane in each direction. The speed limit for these roadways is 48 kmph (30 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Oldsmobile Cutlass, was northbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Mazda Protégé, was eastbound in lane one, stopped at the intersection. V2 entered the intersection and the front struck the left side of V1. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a fifty-nine-year-old male, was on his way home from a store. He was well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver stated, "I was not aware I ran the stop sign" and that he did not see V2 prior to the crash. He stated that he had a stroke thirteen years previously and takes the medications Actos, Altace, Viagra, Depakote, Terazosin, Neurontin and Ditropan. His medical records indicate that this driver has diabetes and a history of a seizure disorder. He was disoriented during transportation (record indicates elevated Depakote level and hypoglycemia) and at the emergency room. Additionally, this driver stated that he is far-sighted and was not wearing corrective lenses.

The driver of V2, a fifty-nine-year-old female, had picked up her thirteen-year-old daughter from school and they were on their way home. This driver was healthy and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. She travels this route daily. She stated that she was talking to her child at the time of the crash. She further stated that she "has not worked in months" and was thinking about her financial problems at the time of the crash. This driver's most recent sleep was four-and-a-half hours (her normal sleep is seven hours) and she had been awake for ten-and-a-half hours.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act." This driver's vision impairment was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's fatigue and her preoccupation with her employment and financial issues were associated factors in this crash.