The crash occurred in the intersection of a north/south and east/west roadway. Both roadways were undivided. The intersection was controlled by traffic signals. The north/south roadway had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph) while the east/west roadway had a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). In the southbound direction, there was a left turn lane, a straight lane, and a right turn lane. In the westbound direction there was a left turn lane and a straight/right turn lane that curved to the left. The crash occurred on a weekend afternoon and the weather was clear and sunny. The bituminous roadways were dry and the grade was level.

V1, a 2004 Jeep Cherokee utility vehicle with the driver as the sole occupant, was traveling southbound in the second lane of travel, intending to go straight through the intersection. V1 was in the intersection when it was struck on the left side by a vehicle approaching from its left. The impact caused V1 to spin counterclockwise approximately 200 degrees. V1 then went forward over a curb and came to final rest on the roadside after contact to a guide wire. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a 16-year-old female, was not injured and refused medical treatment. The driver stated she was traveling 35-40 mph and the traffic control signal at the intersection was "not red" when she proceeded through the intersection. The driver stated she saw the other vehicle "out of the corner of her eye" right before impact and had no time to try to avoid the crash. It should be noted that this driver had only been driving for 1 month.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was "Other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to the driver include inadequate surveillance for failing to look to the side ahead, an illegal maneuver for proceeding through a traffic control device while the signal was red, and driver inexperience.

V2, a 1997 Chevrolet Suburban with two occupants, was stopped at the traffic control signal in the first westbound lane with the intention of proceeding straight. When the traffic light changed to green, V2 proceeded into the intersection where it struck V1 in the middle of the intersection.

The driver of V2, a 17 year-old female, was not injured and refused medical treatment. The driver stated she was in conversation with her mother while at the red traffic control signal. The conversation was regarding the soccer game they were going to. The driver stated when the signal changed to green, she proceeded into the intersection and never saw V1 coming from the right until contact was made. It should be noted this was the first time this driver was on this roadway and had been driving for only 7 months at the time of the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash event was "This vehicle traveling - crossing over (passing through) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as inadequate surveillance for failing to look to the side ahead before entering the intersection. Associated factors coded to the driver include conversation with the passenger, unfamiliarity with the roadway, and driver inexperience.