The crash occurred on the south roadside of an eastbound, two-lane highway with a grass median. There were two eastbound lanes as well as a breakdown lane on the right side of the road. There were occasional gravel roads and driveways intersecting the highway. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 88 kmph (55 mph) and an uphill grade of 2% eastbound. Conditions were daylight and dry with clear skies. The setting was late afternoon hours on a weekday.

Vehicle one was a 2007 Toyota Camry sedan traveling eastbound in lane one. V1 began traveling across the breakdown lane to its right and then off the road to the right. V1 crossed a gravel road before striking four mailboxes in close proximity with its front plane. V1 continued along the right roadside for approximately 60 meters. This roadside was sloped downwards at a 17% grade. V1 then crossed a gravel driveway and began rotating clockwise. The left plane of v1 struck another mailbox as v1 continued rotating approximately 200 degrees. V1 traveled down the sloping roadside and impacted a patch of shrubbery with its back plane. V1 came to rest facing northwest at the bottom of the downslope on the south roadside. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1.

The Toyota Camry (v1) was driven by a 64-year old female who was uninjured. She stated that she was in the process of moving things between homes when she fell asleep and drifted off the road. She did not recall the events of the crash. The investigating officer estimated her travel and impact speeds to be 88 kmph (55 mph). The Toyota sedan was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for v1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason was a driver related factor of sleeping, that is actually asleep. The driver had been involved in strenuous activities every day for the week prior in order to move her belongings. The driver described her health as fair, and she was almost recovered from a broken arm, from which she had recently had the cast removed. A passenger in the vehicle said the driver's former boyfriend beat her and was taken to jail, leading to the driver moving residences. The driver wore sunglasses at the time. She was between jobs, and confessed to being fatigued. She rarely drives this roadway.