This two-vehicle crash occurred during early morning hours on a weekday at an intersection with traffic lights. The road is a 4-lane undivided concrete roadway for both vehicles. The speed limit for both roadways is 48 kmph (30 mph). The westbound lanes are left-curved with a 225-meter (736 feet) radius and a 3.3% downhill grade. The eastbound lanes are right-curved with a 281-meter radius (923 feet) and a 5% uphill grade. The road surface was dry. For eastbound traffic there was sun glare. There was little traffic on the roadways.

Vehicle one (V1), an unidentified Nissan, was traveling east in the second lane of traffic, attempting a left turn. Vehicle two (V2), a 1988 Honda Prelude, was traveling west in the second lane approaching the intersection. At the intersection the front of V1 impacted the front of V2. Both vehicles came to rest within the intersection. V2 was towed from the scene. V1 left the scene unidentified. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V2 described the driver of V1 as a young male. V1 was eastbound. Sun glare may have been a factor for the driver.

The critical pre crash event for V1 was coded "this vehicle traveling - turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical event was coded "driver related error- type of driver error unknown."

A 19-year old male drove V2. He was in good health and does not take any medication. He has been driving for twelve months. He was heading to school, coming from a gas station located near the scene. He said he saw V1 approaching the intersection but thought that the driver would yield the right-of-way. The driver of V2 applied the brakes when he realized that V1 was not stopping.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded "other vehicle encroaching into the lane, from opposite direction, over the left lane line." No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle. This driver's inexperience and his false assumption were associated factors in this crash.