Case Summary 2007-43-206

This two-vehicle crash occurred at a suburban, three-legged, signal-controlled intersection with raised barrier curbs and no pedestrian crosswalks present. North/south traffic is divided by a curbed grass and landscaped median. Southbound approach is straight and level with two straight lanes and a one dedicated left turn lane to enter a shopping plaza. Northbound approach is straight and level with two straight lanes and one dedicated right turn lane to enter a shopping plaza. The posted speed limit is 72 kph (45 mph) for both directions. Setting was late morning hours on a weekday. Conditions were daylight and sunny with dry road surfaces. Traffic flow was light. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

V1 is a 2003 Toyota Tacoma, Xtracab with one occupant traveling southbound in lane three (left turn lane). V2 is a 1986 Chevrolet Esquire van with two occupants traveling northbound in lane three. V1 turned left to enter the shopping plaza and struck the left side of V2 in the intersection (Event 1). The impact caused V2 to yaw counterclockwise, leaving 15.2 meters (50 feet) of yaw marks before contacting the northeast curb with its RR tire. The impact with the curb caused V2 to overturn four-quarter turns (10.0 meters/ 33 feet) about its right axis and come to final rest on its wheel facing west along the sidewalk. V1 came to final rest just east of impact point with disabling front-end damage facing east.

The driver of V1 is a 22 year-old male who was not injured. He had overslept on this day and was late for work. He left home within minutes of waking up. He works part-time and was awoken by a co-worker's telephone call asking where he was. He says he was in the left turn lane, stopped for 5-10 seconds before he got a green arrow. He started turning left, then glimpsed right and noticed V2 was coming toward him quickly from the opposite direction. He claims to have hesitated before entering the intersection, but then braked when he realized V2 wasn't stopping. He did apply the brakes, but still contacted the left side of V2. He claims that V2 must have run the red light. He did have his radio up loud prior to impact, but claimed no other distractions.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 is “This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection.” The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was “Inadequate surveillance, failed to look far enough ahead prior to turning,”-a driver error. He had overslept and was in a hurry to get to work because he was late. This driver suffered from ADD as a teenager as well as a collapsed lung, both physical factors. This driver was inattentive to his driving task, he claimed to be listening to his radio very loudly as well as being concerned and worried about being so late for work. I believe he also falsely assumed that V2 would yield the right of way to him because he thought he has a green arrow. He only drives this roadway weekly and police told me that they've never seen the left turn arrow change to green; they say it's always a solid green and unprotected.

The driver of V2 is an 18 year-old female who was transported from the scene with a serious leg injury. Her boyfriend/passenger is the owner of a pressure washing business. She helps him run the company and also works in the field with him. On this morning, they were on their way to a job site. They had just left their house a few minutes minutes prior. They were driving straight in lane three at 72 kph (45 mph). Prior to entering the intersection, they saw V1 in the left turn lane with their blinker on, but never thought V1 would turn left in front of them. By the time she realized they were getting struck, there were no reasonable avoidance maneuvers to take. V1 contacted their left side causing the vehicle to yaw and rotate counterclockwise. She says they struck a curb and overturned several times before coming to rest on their wheels. She said all the cargo in rear of the van shifted during the rollover, including the 250-gallon water tank. She thinks the water tank contributed to them rolling over as many times as they did due to its weight.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 is “Other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over the left lane line.” The Critical Reason was “Not coded to this vehicle.” She denied using any using any medications (legal or illegal), but medical records indicated recent cocaine, THC, and opiate usage. She was talking to her boyfriend prior to the crash occurring, a non-driving activity. She did experience work related stress due to lack of work (cold weather, drought, weak economy). She did have these concerns on her mind while driving that morning. The LF tire was overinflated, a tire/wheel deficiency. The 250-pound water tanks in the back as well as the pressure washers were not properly secured, causing them to shift during rollover sequence (inadequate securement).