The interchange-related crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a two-way, twelve-lane interstate roadway, which was physically divided by a concrete traffic barrier. There were six northbound lanes, with a posted speed of 105 kmph (65 mph). This was a straight, level, asphalt roadway. Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 2000 Ford Explorer with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane two. V2, a 2006 Hyundai Sonata with one occupant, was also traveling northbound in lane two, ahead of V1. The two automobiles were preparing to diverge onto a different roadway at the interchange. As V1 and V2 began their exit from the interstate, a phantom vehicle made a last-second roadway change through the gore, cutting off V2. The driver of V2 slowed suddenly to avoid the phantom vehicle. The front of V1 made contact with the back of V2. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

The Ford Explorer was driven by a 25-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he was on his way from his house to school. The driver estimated that he was following fifteen meters (fifty feet) behind V1, when another car cut off the vehicle in front of him. The driver slammed on his brakes, but could not stop in time.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related decision error, "following too closely to respond to unexpected actions". Even though the driver was attentive to the actions of the lead vehicle, he was following so closely that he could not avoid a collision when the lead vehicle braked suddenly. Physical factors for the driver included a pre-existing health condition, gastritis. The driver takes an unspecified dosage of Prevacid for the condition. No additional associated factors were identified for this motorist.

The Hyundai Sonata was driven by a 56-year old female, who refused treatment. She stated that she was on her way home from a shopping trip. The driver verified that she was abruptly cut off by another motorist, which forced her to slow suddenly. She said that she was still decelerating when she was hit from behind unexpectedly. The driver indicated that she did not see the vehicle behind her prior to impact.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. Physical factors for this driver included a pre-existing thyroid condition, which is treated by a medication the driver takes daily. No additional associated factors were identified for this motorist.