This crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a four-lane roadway. There were two eastbound and two westbound lanes. This is a straight, dry, asphalt roadway that has a slope of -5/122 and a posted speed of 56kmph (35mph). The crash occurred in the early evening during rush hour. The weather was clear the sun was bright.

As vehicle 1 a 2007 Saab 97X was traveling East in lane two the driver was distracted by a group of young men walking along the side walk. As the driver approached, one of the young men was letting his pants slide down below his thigh area. As the driver looked back forward seeing a vehicle ahead she did not see brake lights due to the bright sunlight at that time of day. Before the drive could react the fronr of V1 contacted the rear of V2 a 1997 Ford Expedition. V2 then traveled forward and the front of V2 contacted the rear of V3 a 2000 Chrysler Sebring that was waiting to make a left turn to travel north. Vehicle 2 and 3 were pushed forward to final rest. V1 came to final rest at point of impact. The driver and passenger of V2 and the driver of V3 were not injured in the crash. The driver of V1 was transported to a local ER unit for injuries. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. V2 and V3 were driven away from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 40-year-old female that stated she is in good health and taking no medications at this time drove V1. She also stated that she wears corrective lenses for myopic (near sightedness). She stated she was on her way to a local University to give a lecture. She also stated she has rarely driven this roadway. The sun was very bright at that time and she was distracted by a group of young men walking along in front of the school. She stated that one of the young men was letting his pants slide down his legs as he walked. She stated as she looked back forward she noticed a vehicle ahead but did not see brake lights. Before she could react she had contacted the rear of V2. She felt a second bump as she came to final rest. She stated the traffic was heavy at the time and could not exit the vehicle to see what had happen. She stated that the EMS personal had checked her out on scene but she did not feel she needed to be transported to the ER at that time. She also said by the time the scene was cleared her right arm was in a lot of pain so she had her husband take her to the ER at a local hospital.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded “other motor vehicle in lane other vehicle stopped”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded recognition error “external distraction”. The associated factors to this driver: the driver was in thought about the lecture she was going to give. And the external distraction of the young men that were on the sidewalk to her right. Also the fact that she rarely drives this section of roadway.

A 34-year-old female stated she is in good health and taking no medications at this time drove V2. She also stated she does not wear corrective lenses at this time. She stated that she had picked up her daughter from day care and had gone to get gas and was on her way to her husband's company picnic. She stated she was thinking of how long she could stay before she would have to go to choir practice that evening. She stated as she drove east in lane two vehicle 3 had turned on its left turn blinker and came to a stop waiting for traffic to clear so it could turn left. She had stated that she was thinking of friends that went to the church on the northeast corner of the intersection. As she sat waiting for traffic to clear she heard tires screeching and looked to see a vehicle contacting the rear of her vehicle. She was then pushed into the vehicle in front of her. After final rest she waited for traffic to clear and got out to check on her daughter. She seemed to be OK, she was just scared by the impact. She also stated she and her daughter were not injured in the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded “other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed”. The Critical Reason fro the Critical Event was not coded to this driver. The associated factor to this driver was she was in thought of events that were to take place that evening and was thinking of friends that went to the church on the north east corner of the intersection.

A 57-year-old female that stated she is in good health and taking no medications at this time drove V3. She also stated she wears corrective lenses for reading only. She stated she was on her way home from work and was going by a friend's to check on the friend's pet before going home. She was traveling east in lane two and had turned on her left turn signal and had come to a stop. She also stated the traffic was very heavy at that time. She was watching traffic she heard tires screech and looked to see if it was a vehicle coming from the opposite direction then looking in her mirror to see the SUV behind her sliding forward into her vehicle. She stated that she could not exit her vehicle because of traffic. She stated that once traffic cleared she exited her vehicle to see that V1 has contacted V2 and pushed V2 into her. She also stated she was not injured in the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V3 was coded “other- not involved in first harmful event”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was also not coded to this vehicle. The associated factor to this driver was the heavy traffic from the opposite direction.