The crash occurred on a two-way, two-lane, road that ran north/south, was straight and level in a residential neighborhood. The road did not have any painted lines, dividers, traffic controls, etc. There were driveways intersecting the road from the east. The speed limit for the road was 48 kph (30 mph). The crash occurred at mid evening on a weekend under dark, lit conditions.

V1 was a 1996 Chevrolet Lumina traveling north on the road behind V2, a 1998 Dodge Grand Caravan that was also traveling northbound. V2 slowed and swung wide left to turn right into a driveway on the east side of the road and was struck on the right side by V1 which had steered right and braked in an attempt to avoid the crash. Both vehicles came to rest facing northeast in their original travel lane. V1 was towed from the scene and V2 was driven away. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 49 year-old-belted-female whose airbag did not deploy but was transported for treatment of possible injuries to an area hospital. She stated that she just couldn't stop in time. After giving the researcher a basic statement on her way to the ambulance D1 said she did not wish to continue the interview later.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane over left lane line". The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. She was taking eleven different medications at the time of the crash for high blood pressure, asthma, angina, pain, depression, anxiety and a muscle relaxant.

V2 was driven by a 41 year-old-belted-female whose airbag did not deploy and was uninjured along with her two female passengers. She was on her way to a friend's house when the crash occurred. She did say that she was talking to her friends while pulling into the driveway and forgot to use her signal.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "this vehicle traveling turning right at intersection". The Critical Reason was coded “Other performance error - made wide right turn into driveway”. Turned without using turn signal was also coded.