The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a 7-lane highway. There were 4 northbound and 3 southbound lanes, divided by a guardrail. This was a straight, level, bituminous road. The speed limit was 89 kmph (55 mph). It was the late evening on a weekday. The road was illuminated by streetlamps. Traffic flow was light.

V1, a 2004 Chevy Malibu 4-door sedan, was driven by a 21-year old female who was traveling alone. V1 was traveling in lane 2 at approximately 50 mph (80 kmph) when the driver changed lanes to avoid being hit by another vehicle. The front of V1 struck the rear of V2 after the driver changed into lane 1. The driver stated that she was traveling in lane two when she noticed another vehicle behind her approaching at a high rate of speed. She changed lanes to the right quickly so that the other vehicle could pass. After changing lanes, she struck V2 in the rear and then came to rest on the shoulder. She stated that she did not notice V2 until after she had changed lanes and that V2 was traveling considerably slower than her. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 2003 Ford Explorer utility vehicle, was driven by a 50-year old male who was traveling with a 48-year old female passenger. V2 was traveling in lane 1 at an unknown rate of speed. V2 was struck in the rear by V1. The driver of V2 declined an interview and refused to allow his vehicle to be photographed.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with lower steady speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver decision error, incorrect evasive action. Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include the condition of asthma with the use of prescription medication, an exterior distraction caused by the non-contact vehicle approaching V1 from the rear, inadequate surveillance for failing to see V2 before changing lanes, and a tire deficiency due to two low tread tires on V1.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors could be coded due to the lack of interview.