Case Summary 2007-43-199

This single vehicle, right roadside departure crash occurred along a straight, uphill stretch of two-way, two-lane undivided, rural highway. The posted speed limit is 88 kph (55 mph) despite the accident report indicating 72 kph (45 mph). A patch of this roadway had recently been repaved. As a result, soft shoulders and no road markings were present 400 meters (1300 feet) prior to the crash site. Setting was evening hours on a weekend. Conditions were dark, not lit, heavy rain, wet road surfaces. Traffic flow was light to moderate at crash time. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1.

V1 is a 2004 Nissan Murano, five-door, full-size wagon with two occupants traveling southbound in lane one. V1 drove off the road to the right after being blinded by road glare and oncoming vehicle's headlights. V1 then steered left, returning to the roadway. V1 then crossed into the northbound travel lane. V1 steered right, overcorrecting to avoid a collision with a second oncoming vehicle. V1 then drove off the road to the right, entering a soft, wet, negatively sloped ditch. V1 traveled 10.4 meters (34 feet) in the grass ditch before contacting the edge of a private driveway with its LF tire (Event 1). The LF tire shattered on impact, causing V1 to go slightly airborne. V1 then rolled one-quarter turn onto its left side, (Event 2). V1 rolled a distance of 10.0 meters (33 feet), before striking a non-breakaway pole with it top-plane (Event 3). V1 rotated slightly counterclockwise while it's to was fully engaged with the utility pole and came to final rest on the driver's side facing south.

The driver of V1 is a 66 year-old retired female who was transported to a local trauma center from the crash scene with serious injuries. On this dark, rainy evening, she had been in a neighboring town finishing up holiday shopping. She and her daughter were on their way back home when the crash occurred. They were driving along, talking to each other and listening to Christmas music, when they hit a stretch of roadway that had been recently paved and no road marking were put down yet. She met an oncoming vehicle with its high beams on. The high beams blinded her and caused a severe glare off the wet road surface. She was unable to see the road edge due to the lack of white fog lines. After becoming confused, she ran off the road to the right. She then steered left, and brought her vehicle back on the road, but entered into the opposite travel lane. She said another car was traveling toward her head-on. In an attempt to avoid a head-on collision, she jerked her wheel to the right, causing it to depart the right side of the road. She then hit a “bump,” causing her car to roll onto the driver's side. As they were rolling, the roof contacted a telephone pole that was near the roadway.

The Critical Precrash Event was “This vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side.” The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was “Overcompensation,” a driver related error. The driver admitted that after regaining control of her vehicle, she overcorrected to the right to avoid striking an oncoming vehicle head on. The driver has the following health conditions: Hypothyroidism, asthma, arthritis, right shoulder surgery, bursitis of shoulders, and tendonitis in bilateral upper extremities. She treats her conditions with various prescription medications and vitamins. She was conversing with her daughter, a recognition factor. Listening to the radio was a non-driving activity. She was traveling too fast for conditions, didn't realize caution was needed. Overcompensation was a performance error. The wet roads and lack of road markings were both roadway factors. The roadway has yet to be marked, six weeks after the crash occurred according to the driver and my observations. The rain was a weather factor and the headlight glare from the oncoming vehicle was an environmental factor.