This crash occurred in the early evening of a weekday at a residential 3-leg T intersection. The intersection consisted of a two-lane east/west roadway intersected by a two-lane north/south roadway that was controlled by a stop sign. The north/south roadway was bituminous, dry, and straight, with a downhill grade greater than 2%. The posted speed limit was 48 kmph (30 mph). The weather was cloudy and the roadway was not lighted.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Ford Explorer with one occupant, was northbound approaching the intersection where it intended to turn left. As it approached the intersection it failed to stop for the stop sign and than failed to properly negotiate the turn and departed the roadway. V1 struck a guardrail on the north roadside of the intersection. V1 rode up the guardrail, struck a utility pole with its front, rolled right one-quarter turn and struck two trees with its top. V1 came to final rest on the north side of the roadway, facing northwest, lying on its right side. This vehicle was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1, a belted 34-year-old female was transported for treatment of minor injuries. She could not be located for an interview however she did tell police that she was attempting to brake when she accidentally engaged the clutch. Witnesses to the crash stated this vehicle was traveling at a high rate of speed. It should also be noted the brake and clutch pedals of this vehicle were bare metal with no rubber pedal covers. The Police Accident Report also indicates this driver was inexperienced and driving with a suspended license.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a driver related factor, traveling too fast for curve or turn. Associated factors include poor directional control, driver inexperience as well as several vehicle factors including severely worn tires and missing covers for the brake and clutch pedals.