The crash occurred on a rural, north/south roadway. There was one lane in each direction and a paved shoulder on either side. The roadway was sided by grass with a small upward embankment on the east side. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph) and the southbound approach was set on a 1 percent downhill grade. Conditions were dawn and cloudy with dry roads. The setting was early morning hours on a weekend.

Vehicle one was a 2002 Chevrolet Blazer sport utility traveling southbound in lane one. V1 began skidding for unknown reasons, and traveled partially off the roadway to the right. V1 then returned to the roadway and began a counter-clockwise rotation. After rotating approximately 70 degrees and moving partially into the oncoming lane of traffic, V1 rolled over to the right one-quarter turn. V1 then slid on its right side for approximately 20 meters, traveling off the east roadside. V1 then struck a small upwards embankment with its top. This impact caused V1 to roll right 9 more quarter turns over a distance of approximately 40 meters. V1 came to final rest on its top facing east in the east roadside. Police Reported Travel Speed is 113 kmph for V1.

The Chevrolet Blazer (V1) was driven by a 22-year old male who was transported to a local trauma center with possible injuries. He was unable to be located for an interview. The investigating officer estimated his travel and impact speeds to be 113 kmph (70 mph) and 105 kmph (65 mph), respectively. The Chevrolet sport utility was towed due to damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle control loss due to an unknown cause. The Critical Reason was unknown. The vehicle had mismatched tires and wheels consisting of three 18" wheels and one 14" wheel. The corresponding tire diameters varied by 0.42". The investigating officer suspected alcohol use, but did not report giving a blood alcohol test. Firemen on the scene were overheard saying that the driver and his passengers had been at a nightclub all night, and had just left prior to the crash. Medical records revealed a BAC of .21 and the driver tested positive for both cocaine and marijana. Excess speed was also coded as an associated factor. Other factors were coded unknown because the driver could not be located for an interview.