This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. On the east side on the intersection, the roadway is undivided with five lanes and the westbound traffic lanes consist of a left turn lane and two through lanes. On the west side of the intersection, the roadway is undivided with five lanes and the eastbound traffic lanes consist of a left turn lane and two through lanes. Both roadways curve right before entering into the intersection and are level, with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred in the late afternoon on a weekday with moderate traffic flow.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Suzuki Forenza with two occupants, was stopped in lane three, waiting to turn left at the intersection behind a non-contact vehicle. Vehicle two (V2), a 1991 Honda Accord with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane two, passing through the intersection. The driver of V2 saw V1 proceeding to turn left in front of him and applied the brakes. V2 skidded longitudinally for approximately 17 meters (56 feet) before the front of V1 impacted the front of V2. V1 was towed due to damage. No one was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-five-year-old female, was traveling from a gym to a park with her brother. She was well rested, in good health, and very comfortable with her vehicle, but drives this route rarely. She stated that she looked up and didn't see any vehicle, so she proceeded with her left turn.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

The driver of V2, a thirty-six-year-old male, was commuting from work to his home. He was well rested, very comfortable with his vehicle, in good health, and drives this route daily.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.