This crash occurred in the late night at the end of the week. The roadway was straight, level, dry asphalt. It was dark but lighted. The speed was posted at 72 kmph (45 mph). The crash was intersection related. The traffic light was working properly.

The crash occurred in lane three of the eastbound traffic way. As Vehicle 3 (V3) a 2006 Chevrolet Silverado pick-up started to accelerate it was contacted in the rear by Vehicle 2 (V2) a 1997 Chevrolet Cavalier. As the driver of V3 started to place his vehicle into park and open his door to see what had happen, it was hit again. Vehicle 1 (V1) a 1999 Chrysler Sebring contacted V2 in the rear pushing in into the back of V3. The driver V2 and the passenger of V1 were transported to the local trauma unit. The drivers of V1 and V3 were not injured in the crash. The driver of V3 was able to drive his vehicle away from the crash scene the vehicle had no damage. V1 and V2 had to be towed from the scene due to vehicle damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Chrysler Sebring was driven by a 32 year-old female that stated she is in good health and is taking no medications at this time. She also stated that she does not wear corrective lenses. She stated that she and her sister had just left a meeting at a local hotel restaurant and were traveling east in lane three (this driver said at the time of the interview that they were in the left turn lane). She had stated that at the time of the crash that her sister was calling her husband. Both the driver and the passenger said that they did not see any brake lights before impact. The driver stated at the last minute she noted the vehicle was not moving so she braked and steered to the right. She also said that she called 911 right away and was asked if anyone needed EMS. She said her sister wanted to be seen and that after checking with the other occupants of V2 told the dispatcher that the driver of V2 was injured.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded “not involved in the first harmful event”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this driver. The associated factors to this driver were the fact that the driver was conversing with the passenger and did not note that the vehicle ahead was not moving.

V2, a Chevrolet Cavalier was driven by a 57 year-old female that stated she is in good health but does take medications for hip replacement. This interview was given by the niece who was in the vehicle at the time of crash and by the driver's daughter. She stated that she and her aunt had just left the hotel lounge and were on their way home at the time of the crash. She said they were traveling east in lane three. This driver and her niece stated that they were stopped for some 10 to 15 seconds before being hit from the rear and pushed into the pick-up truck ahead of them. The driver stated she does not remember much after the impact.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded “other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded “internal distraction”. The associated factors to this vehicle were the driver was looking over at the occupant and conversing at the time of the crash. Also the driver stated she was in the left turn lane at the time of the crash. The medical report shows that she tested positive for opiates, cocaine and marijuana.

V3, a Chevrolet Silverado was driven by a 31 year-old male that stated he is in good health and taking no medications at this time. He also stated he does not wear corrective lenses. He said that he was on his way home from work at the time of the crash. He stated that as he sat at the traffic light waiting to travel east through the intersection in lane three he noted the vehicle in front of him start to proceed through the intersection. He said as he started to accelerate he check his rear view mirrors and noted a vehicle coming up behind his. He also stated he did not know if it was going to stop or not. He said the vehicle collided with him, he started to put his vehicle into park and open his door and he felt another hit. As he exited his vehicle he saw another vehicle had collided with the vehicle that contacted his vehicle. He also stated that he checked on the driver and occupant of V2 and saw the driver was bleeding. He stated the driver of V1 stated she had called 911 on the cell phone so he ran to the store on the corner and got some paper towel for the driver of V2. He stated that after the officers arrived on scene they took his statement and released him from the scene.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V3 was coded “other motor vehicle in lane traveling with higher speed”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle.

This researcher found after interviewing the driver of V3 that V2 contacted V3 then V1 contacted V2. This researcher found that V2 had not been stopped for the time stated before being contacted from the rear. This researcher also noted the driver of V1 had never changed lanes to make a left turn at the intersection. (Note images of final rest at crash scene V1 has a left turn arrow next to the vehicle).