The crash occurred in the westbound lanes of a four-lane roadway. There were three westbound lanes and one eastbound lane on the east side of the intersection. There were three eastbound lanes (one right turn, one straight and one left turn only) and two westbound lanes on the west side of the intersection. Both roadways were asphalt, straight and dry. The east/westbound road was level. The north/southbound road was level in the intersection, and had a a 3.3% slope uphill for southbound traffic. The posted speed limit was 56 kph (35 mph) and traffic in all directions was controlled by overhanging traffic signals without pedestrian control. Conditions at the time were daylight with overcast skies in the early afternoon on a weekday (midday lunch rush in an industrial/urban section of town).

V1 was a 2005 Toyota Tundra Pickup (2wd) traveling east and turning left/north from lane three on the west leg of the intersection on a solid green signal. V2 was a 2002 Ford E350 Van used as a bus (no passengers) that was traveling west through the intersection in lane one. V3 was a 2003 Volkswagen Jetta that was stopped in lane one southbound waiting for a green light. As V1 proceeded with its left turn it was following a Non-Contact (NC) dually pickup truck when V1 was struck on the right side near its rear by the front of V2. V1 then rotated clockwise and its left side (also near the back) struck the front of V3 where it (V3) was stopped. V3 was pushed back several meters by the impact and came to rest facing south in its original travel lane. V1 came to rest facing northeast after contacting V3. V1 and V3 were towed from the scene. V2 proceeded through the intersection after the first impact and came to a controlled stop on the north sidewalk facing west on the west leg of the intersection. V2 was driven away. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 59 year-old belted male who was uninjured in the crash. He was following his son (son driving NC vehicle) to his place of business at the time of the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The driver did have some medical issues including uncorrected vision/myopic condition, Parkinson's disease, depression, and some sleep issues. He was taking medications for all of his conditions (except vision) including (but not limited to) muscle relaxers and a sleep aid. D1 was tracking the NC vehicle trying to keep up with it. Turned with obstructed view was coded to V1 based on the size of the NC vehicle and the fact that during the maneuvers leading up to the crash it would have been directly between V1 and its line of site to V2's approach. D1 had not driven V1 very many times and was not very familiar with the roadway where the crash occurred.

V2 was driven by a 35 year-old belted male who was uninjured in the crash. He was on duty with his company vehicle (V2) and was on his way to pickup a passenger when the crash occurred. He stated that he was stopped at the red light, it turned green and he was accelerating into the intersection at the time of the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was “this vehicle traveling crossing over passing through intersection”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The driver of V2 could see V1 (higher seat in V2) over the top of the NC vehicle listed above so a sight restriction was not an issue for V2 but he did state that he thought V1 would stop. In this case a false assumption that the other vehicle would yield the right of way was applied to V2.

V3 was driven by a 25 year-old belted male who was uninjured in the crash. His statement (as he had a front row seat to the 1st and 2nd events) corroborated the researchers findings as to the sequence of events and traffic flow (NC vehicle positioning etc…)

The Critical Precrash Event was not coded for V3, as it was not involved in the first harmful event. The Critical Reason was also not coded to this vehicle. No contributing actions or factors were coded to this vehicle.