This crash occurred in the southbound lane of a 4-way controlled intersection. At all legs of the intersection, there was one lane going in each direction and all the roadways involved were undivided. All roads were straight, level, bituminous roadways with a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred in the early morning at about rush hour. The roadway was slightly congested with a little bit of stop and go traffic activity. The skies were clear and roads were wet due to rain the previous night.

V1, a 1996 Plymouth Voyager minivan with two occupants, was traveling south in lane one. V2, a 2002 Chevrolet Tahoe large utility vehicle with two occupants, was facing south in lane one in front of V1. V2 was waiting at a red light. When the light turned green, V2 inched up and steered towards the left intending on making a left turn when the oncoming traffic cleared. At this time, V1 was traveling down the road at or about the speed limit and saw V2 waiting to make a left turn. V1 was unable to brake in time and the front left corner of V1 struck the right rear of V2. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Plymouth Voyager minivan, was driven by a 26-year-old female who reported no injuries at the time of the accident. Her passenger, her 6-year-old son, also reported no injuries at the time of the accident. The driver stated that she was driving her son to school and they were engaged in a conversation. According to the driver, when she saw V2 waiting to make a left turn at the intersection, she tried to brake but her brakes did not work and she skidded into the rear of V2. She attempted to avoid the collision by also steering right once she realized that her brakes were not working but was unsuccessful.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded as "Other motor vehicle in lane-other vehicle stopped." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as "Internal Distraction." At the time of the accident, the driver admitted to be conversing with her son. The other associated factor that was coded to the vehicle was the wet road and the driver felt that was why her brakes were not working.

V2, the Chevrolet Tahoe, was driven by a 28-year-old female who reported no injuries at the time of the accident. Her passenger, her 3-year-old future stepson, also reported no injuries. The driver stated that she stopped at the red light. When the light turned green, she inched up into the intersection and veered to the left waiting for the other side of the roadway to clear in order to make a left turn. As she was waiting there she was struck from behind by V1.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded as "Other motor vehicle in lane-traveling in same direction with higher speed." No Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to this vehicle were work stress in that the driver had just started a new job and was learning a new position and the wet roadway.