The crash occurred at the intersection of a two-way, straight, level roadway divided by a curbed median with a posted speed limit of 80 kmh (50 mph), and a one-way, two-lane crossover, controlled by an on-colors traffic signal. Conditions at the time of the weekday evening crash were daylight, cloudy and dry.

V1, a 1997 Chevrolet Venture LS minivan driven by an 18 year-old female, was stopped at the red signal in the crossover, waiting to turn onto the eastbound roadway. The driver stated that she was stopped for about 45 seconds and when her light was about to turn green, she pulled into the near traffic lane. The driver of v1 saw v2, a red pick-up truck approaching the intersection from her right, and stated that she saw him slow for his light, which was about to turn red. The driver of the minivan assumed v2 would stop, but stated that the driver of v2 accelerated to go through the light. The driver of v1 took no avoidance actions. The right front of v1 was struck by the front left of v2. V1 rotated counterclockwise, struck the median curb, rolled one-quarter turn striking a sign post, and came to rest on its right side facing northeast, partially in the median. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 2000 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 regular cab 4x4 pick-up truck, was eastbound in the roadway in lane 2. The driver stated that v1 pulled out from the crossover in front of him when he had the green light. The driver of v2 swerved to the right in an attempt to avoid the crash. The driver brought v2 to a stop facing east in lane 2 following the impact. V2 was towed from the scene following the crash. The fully restrained driver denied injuries.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to the driver of v1 was 'this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection.' The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded was a 'driver related decision error of false assumption of other road user's actions.'

The Critical Precrash Event coded to the driver of v2 was 'other vehicle encroachment from crossing street turning into same direction.' The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Contributing Factors coded to this driver were alcohol related due to the police reported Breathalyzer result of .1, and possible side effects from his prescribed medication for high cholesterol.

.