Case #2007-144

The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. The northbound roadway consisted of three one-way travel lanes, with a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). The westbound roadway was a two-way, three-lane undivided street, with a posted speed of 48 kmph (30 mph). Conditions were dark with streetlights on a weekday evening. The roads were dry and the skies were clear. Traffic flow was normal. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

V1, a 2002 Nissan Altima with two occupants, was traveling northbound in lane one. V2, a 1996 Toyota Camry with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane one. Both vehicles were approaching the same intersection. As the two vehicles entered the intersection, the front of V1 made contact with the left side of V2. V1 continued northbound. V1 traveled approximately 25 meters before the back of the vehicle made contact with a concrete wall. V1 was towed due to damage.

The Nissan Altima was driven by a 27-year old female, who was treated on-scene for her injuries. She stated that she had a green light, but would not comment further, and refused to be interviewed. The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was an unknown driver-related error. One associated factor for this driver was speeding. Another associated factor for the motorist was failure to obey traffic control device. No additional associated factors could be determined due to lack of interview data.

The Toyota Camry was driven by a 47-year old male, who was not injured. The driver was released from the scene prior to the researcher's arrival, and could not be reached for interview. The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street across path". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle". No associated factors could be determined for this driver due to lack of interview data.