This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The north/south trafficway is straight and is divided by a curbed median. Both roadways consist of two through lanes and a left turn lane. The northbound lanes have an uphill grade. The speed limit for this trafficway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1988 Buick Electra Park Avenue, was southbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Lexus ES300, was northbound in lane one. Non-contact vehicles were stopped in northbound lane two. V1 entered the intersection, turning left and the front struck the front of V2. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a seventy-nine-year-old male, was on his way home from a restaurant. He was well rested and familiar with his vehicle. This driver has high blood pressure and high cholesterol for which he takes unspecified medications. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that he was looking at the stopped vehicles and did not see V2 prior to the crash.

The driver of V2, a twenty-two-year-old male, was traveling with a fifty-seven-year-old male passenger, from his home to a car repair shop. This driver was healthy, well rested and comfortable with his vehicle and passenger. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that he did saw V1 at the last second.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; turned with obstructed view." This driver's focus on the stopped vehicles was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's inadequate surveillance was an associated factor in this crash.