This two vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of a 4 lane asphalt roadway and a two-lane asphalt roadway in a business area. The intersection is controlled by a traffic light for all directions. The four-lane roadway runs east and west. The speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph). The roadways are straight and level. The crash occurred during late afternoon daylight hours with no adverse weather or road conditions present.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Chrysler Aspen SUV, was westbound in the number two lane passing through the light-controlled intersection when its front bumper plane contacted the left side plane of vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Ford Taurus sedan, which was turning left at the intersection. V2 had the green light and the right-of-way. The driver of V1 stated she was looking inside the vehicle for CD's and when she looked up, the sun glare obscured her view of the traffic light and of V2. The driver of V2 stated she had been stopped at the red light for 3 minutes before proceeding through on the green light. She saw V1 traveling west and believed it would stop at the red light so she continued to turn left at the intersection. V1 was driven a distance down the road then parked at a parking lot. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty eight (28) year-old female was visiting family in her hometown 193 kilometers (120 miles) away and was driving back to the airport. She is a soldier in the US Army and was on leave. She was to return to South Carolina before being sent to Korea. She had driven the rental vehicle only 2 times. She is familiar with the roadway although she does not drive it regularly.

The driver of V2, a fifty five (55) year-old female and her passenger, were on their way home after eating at a local restaurant. They had been to the funeral of an infant relative earlier in the day then stopped for groceries before eating. The driver stated she saw V1 and thought it would stop at the red light.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event coded to V2 as a driver related factor: false assumption of others actions.