The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a two-way, seven-lane roadway, divided by a curbed median. This was a straight, level, asphalt roadway, with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). Conditions were daylight on a weekend afternoon with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, an unknown SUV with unknown occupants, was traveling southbound in lane four (left turn lane). V2, a 2003 Dodge Neon with two occupants, was traveling northbound in lane four. The two vehicles were approaching the same intersection. V1 attempted to make a u-turn. At the same time, a phantom vehicle from an adjoining roadway was making a right turn into the same direction as V1. V1 stopped in V2's travel lane to avoid a collision with the phantom vehicle. The front of V2 made contact with the right side of V1. V1 then fled the scene. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

V1, the SUV, was driven by an unknown occupant with unknown injuries. The hit-and-run driver could not be located for interview. The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the left side of travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as unknown due to the lack of information regarding V1.

The driver of V2, a 19-year old female, was not injured. She stated that she and her passenger were on their way to her mother's house. She indicated that as they approached the intersection, a vehicle initiated a u-turn turn in front of the driver, and then hesitated in her traffic lane when another car made a right turn at the same time. She went on to say that she tried to avoid V1 by steering right and applying her brakes.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction over the left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. One associated factor for this driver was inexperience. The driver had no formal driver education, and had only been driving for two years.