This two-vehicle crash occurred near a driveway on a divided, straight, level trafficway. Both directions of travel consist of two through lanes with a left turn bay at the driveway. The driveway on the north side of this roadway is controlled by a stop sign. The speed limit on this roadway is 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1986 Honda Accord, was westbound in lane two, reportedly traveling at approximately 89 kmph (55 mph). Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Plymouth Voyager, was stopped southbound in the driveway. V2 turned right into the roadway. As V2 moved into lane two, the back was struck by the front of V1. V2 rotated counterclockwise and the left side of V1 struck the left side of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1 and 89 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-year-old male, was on his way back to work from running an errand at a grocery store. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this roadway daily. This driver stated that he saw V2 stopped at the stop sign and applied the brakes (skidding longitudinally) when V2 entered the roadway.

The driver of V2, an eighty-two-year-old female, was on her way from a store to a doctor's appointment with her eight-four-year-old husband. She was in fairly good health, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. She travels this route several times each month. This driver stated she thought that V1 was far enough from the driveway to safely enter the roadway.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from driveway, turning into same direction. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was not coded to this vehicle. This vehicle's speed was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other; turning right from driveway. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed.