This two-vehicle crash occurred at an intersection without traffic signs. The road is a 3-lane divided (no positive barrier) concrete roadway from south to north. The intersection was preceded by a right curve (radius of curvature: 375 m/1231 feet). The roadway had a 4.1 % down hill grade. It is a two lane (two-way traffic) undivided roadway from east to west. The speed limit for the east-west roadway is 32 kph (20 mph). It is the exit of a trucking company. The speed limit for the south to north is 54 kph (35 mph). The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash. It was early afternoon hours on a weekday and there was medium traffic on the roadways.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Honda Civic with one occupant, was traveling north in the second lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Peterbilt tractor pulling one trailer, was traveling north in the first lane of traffic, attempting a U-turn at the intersection. At the intersection of both roadways, the front of V1 impacted the left side of V2. The impact occurred in lane three. V1 rotated clockwise, and came to rest within the intersection at the impact location. V2 did not rotate after the impact, and came to rest within the intersection at the point of impact. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 20-year old female, who reported light injuries, drove V1, the 1995 Honda Civic. The driver was in good health, did not take any drugs or medication and was well rested. She does not possess a valid drivers license. She was heading to work from her home. She stated she was driving at 35 mph (54 kph) in lane two when the truck suddenly and unexpectedly pulled into her lane. She applied her brakes and steered to the left but was unable to avoid the collision.

The critical pre crash event was coded "other vehicle encroachment - from adjacent lane (same direction) over the right lane line." The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle. She did not notice the truck was in a turning motion with his left turn signal on. The skid marks found on scene start in lane two, indicating the driver steered into lane three. If she had observed the truck's movements earlier, she would have slowed down.

A 57-year old male drove V 2, the 2006 Peterbilt Truck. He stated he was in the first lane, slowing down and initiated the left turn signal. He checked his rearview mirror and proceeded with a U-turn. He did not see V 1 until he heard the screeching tires of V1. The driver was heading from one drop off destination to another. He drives on this roadway on a monthly basis. The driver and the truck are from out of the country. The driver is in good health and an experienced truck driver. He takes anti depressive medication, which can cause drowsiness.

The critical pre crash event was coded "this vehicle traveling- over the lane line on left side of travel lane." The critical reason was coded "driver related factor; illegal maneuver." The driver stated he checked his rear view mirror prior to attempting his turn.