This crash occurred in the afternoon of a weekday in the middle of an urban, two-way intersection. The intersection consisted of two one-way 4-lane roadways (one westbound, one southbound) controlled by a properly functioning traffic signal. Both roadways were bituminous, dry, straight, and level with a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). The weather was cloudy and overcast, but the traffic flow was normal at the time of the crash.

Vehicle 1 (V1), a 1992 Chevrolet Express Van with two occupants, was westbound in lane three approaching the intersection. Vehicle 2 (V2) a 1993 Ford Ranger with one occupant, was westbound in lane four slightly behind V1. V1 attempted to turn left at the intersection from lane two. As V1 crossed lane one it was struck on the left side by the front right corner of V2. The impact caused V1 to rotate counter-clockwise before coming to final rest facing east in the southbound lanes. V2 came to rest facing west still in the intersection near the point of impact. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 38-year-old female, was uninjured as a result of the crash. She was driving her friend to pick-up her son from court. She stated they missed the courthouse and were in the process of driving around the block, looking for a parking spot, and also looking for the friend's son. She thought she was in lane four as she approached the intersection and that her friend stated there were handicap parking spots just around the corner. She put on her left turn signal and started the turn, which is when they were hit. She was concerned for her friend health because of her age but her friend refused treatment stating she was fine.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as a driver related error, an external distraction. Associated factors include inexperience (driving this roadway for the first time), both an internal (conversing with passenger) and external (looking for her passengers son and a parking spot) distraction and the fact she was upset about her having to travel 40 miles to pick up someone from court. An illegal maneuver was also coded as she turned from the wrong lane.

The driver of V2, a 54-year-old male, was uninjured in the crash. He stated he was on his afternoon commute home and was looking west to the next intersection. He saw the other vehicle and thought it would continue traveling straight. He claimed V2 suddenly turned left in front of him and he could not avoid the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane - over right lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The driver was driving on a suspended license at the time of the crash.