This single vehicle daytime collision occurred at a T-shaped intersection comprised of a north/south roadway and an east/west roadway. The north/south roadway is undivided, dry, asphalt, two lanes, and has a downgrade slope. The east/west roadway is undivided, dry, asphalt, curves left, and has a -3.2% downgrade slope. The north/south roadway is designated a 40 kmph (25 mph) zone. The east/west roadway is designated a 72 kmph (45 mph) zone. The intersection is controlled by on-color signals that were functioning at the time of the collision. A warning sign exists for westbound traffic indicating the approaching curve. It also advises a speed of 24 kmph (40 mph). The top of the yellow, diamond-shaped, warning sign has a flashing yellow beacon.

Vehicle one (V1) is a 1991 Toyota Camry four-door sedan, driven by a thirty one (31) year old male who was traveling westbound in the number two lane. As V1 negotiated the left curve, it traveled across all lanes towards the left south curb. The right plane contacted the south curb. The right plane of V1 then contacted a street sign as it continued west along the curb. The right plane of V1 contacted a on-color light pole as it came to rest. V1 came to rest facing southeast blocking the eastbound number one lane and the south sidewalk. V1 suffered major damage and was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: poor directional control. The driver was on her morning commute from home to work. This driver indicated a vehicle was about the enter the intersection from the cross street she was approaching. The driver claimed no interior of exterior distractions while driving. The driver steered left and departed the travel lanes to her left. Based on the vehicle dynamics she was traveling at a high rate of speed and unable to control her vehicle. Overcompensation was also an associative factor.