The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways: east/west and north/south. They were both undivided two-lane bituminous roadways with an unposted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). The westbound roadway ended at the north/south roadway and was controlled by a stop sign. The north/south roadway had no traffic control device. It was afternoon on a weekend and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic was sparse.

V1, a 1994 Dodge Shadow two-door hatchback with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane one. V1 was intending to turn left at the intersection. V2, a 1992 Pontiac Trans Sport minivan with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane one. V1 was intending to go straight. The driver of V1 stated that she came up to the intersection and stopped at the stop sign. She stated that she did not remember what happened after that. The driver of V2 stated that he saw V1 approach the intersection and slow down at the stop sign but he did not think that she came to a complete stop. V1 proceeded into the intersection. V2 attempted to avoid V1 by applying the brakes with a full ABS application, but he could not stop in time. The front of V2 contacted the left of V1. Both vehicles then departed the roadway on the west side where the left side of V1 impacted a sign before coming to final rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Dodge Shadow, was driven by a 20-year old female. She reported injuries and was transported to a local trauma facility. She stated that she had left work and was on her way to her mother's house. She stated that she was did not know how long she was stopped at the intersection and then proceeded at 2-16 kmph (1-10 mph) before being contacted by V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for the driver of V1 was: This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was: Inadequate surveillance (failed to look, looked but did not see) because she did not see V2 coming. An associated factor coded to this driver was a sightline restriction caused by shrubbery on the southeast corner of the intersection.

The driver of V2 was a 57-year old male who reported no injuries and refused treatment. He stated that he had left work and was on his way home. He stated that he had been traveling between 82-97 kmph (51-60 mph) prior to taking the avoidance action. He could not stop in time.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for the driver of V2 was: Other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. No Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to this driver was a false assumption that V1 would yield the right-of-way.