The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a two-way, eight-lane interstate roadway, which was divided by a concrete traffic barrier. There were four northbound lanes, with a posted speed of 105 kmph (65 mph). An advisory speed limit of 88 kmph (55 mph) was posted due to a work zone. This was a straight, asphalt roadway, with a downhill precrash slope greater than two percent, and a crash slope that was level. Conditions were dark with streetlights on a weekday evening. Traffic flow was interrupted by sudden congestion due to a work zone.

V1, a 2000 Mazda Millenia 4-door sedan with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane two. V2, a 2005 BMW X5 with two occupants, was traveling northbound in lane three, ahead of V1. V3, a 205 Chevrolet Impala with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane two, ahead of V1 and V2. Lane four (HOV lane) was completely blocked off to through traffic by orange cones, indicating a work zone. Ahead of the three vehicles, the orange cones were placed in a staggered formation in lane three as well, funneling traffic down to just the two right lanes. V2 saw the cones, and changed lanes to the right, so that all three vehicles were traveling in succession, in lane two. Traffic began to slow, due to the congestion of four travel lanes being reduced to two. The driver of V3 came to a complete stop. The driver of V2 then gradually slowed to a complete stop. The driver of V1 did not stop. The front of V1 made contact with the back of V2. The front of V2 was subsequently pushed into the back of V3. All vehicles came to final rest in lane two. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

V1, the Mazda Millenia, was driven by a 40-year old male, who was transported due to injury. The driver could not be reached for interview. The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was an unknown driver-related error. Two traffic flow interruption factors were the work zone and congestion. No additional associated factors could be determined for this driver due to lack of information.

V2, the BMW X5, was driven by a 47-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he and his passenger were on their way home from watching a favorite musician play at a lounge. The driver said that he was in lane three, but changed into lane two in anticipation of merging traffic ahead. As the driver got closer, he noticed traffic beginning to get congested. He slowed down behind the driver of V3 and eventually came to a complete stop. Within seconds the driver of V1 hit him from behind.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was “other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. One associated factor for this driver was a driver-related recognition factor. The motorist was having a social conversation with his passenger at the time of the crash. Two traffic flow interruption factors were the work zone and congestion.

V3, the Chevy Impala, was driven by a 21-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he was on his way home from his mother's house. He stated that he was traveling in lane two as he approached a merging work zone. The driver said that he reduced his speed and slowed to a stop as the traffic around him became congested. Shortly after that, he was hit from behind.

The driver of V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The Critical Precrash Event and the Critical Reason for the Critical Event were not coded to the driver of the Impala. One associated factor for this driver was recognition-related. The driver was on the phone with his girlfriend at the time of the crash. As with V1 and V2, there were work zone and congestion related traffic flow interruption factors.