The two-vehicle crash occurred north of a three-leg intersection, with no controls for north and southbound traffic. North and southbound traffic is divided by dirt medians. On the north side of the intersection there were two through lanes and one left turn lane. The roadway was dry, cement, curve to the right and a slight uphill grade with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours on a weekend with heavy northbound traffic congestion.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Oldsmobile Alero, with one occupant was southbound in lane three, the left turn lane, going straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Nissan Pathfinder, with three occupants was southbound in lane three in front of V1, stopped to make a left turn. The driver of V1 either swerved or started to drive off the left side of the road when it impacted with its front to V2's back. V2 had been sitting in the left turn lane waiting for northbound traffic to clear when it was impacted in the back. After the impact with V2, V1 continued onto the dirt median and sideswiped a metal pole with its left side. V1 continued in the median and impacted a plastic delineator pole with its front. V1 continued off the median and into the intersection and came to rest on its wheels facing southeast. Both vehicles were towed from the scene with moderate damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a fifty-eight year-old female, was driving to a friend's house from home and had a hypoglycemia medical condition. She could not remember how she got so far up the mountain to where the crash happened, as she should have turned off long before. She does have diabetes and feels she must have had a diabetic blackout, which was supported by the medical records. She was well rested, drives this roadway weekly and is very comfortable with the vehicle. She takes the medications Celebrex, Lotrel, Glucophage, Avandia, insulin, and Lortrel on a regular basis. She has had a prior history of the same syncope simptoms, the most recent being one time the previous week.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event was attributed to V1 as a driver related factor: heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act, due to the diabetic seizure prior to the crash.

The driver of V2, a twenty-eight year-old male, was driving from his wife's grandmother's house to his father's house. He stated he was stopped for two to three minutes, waiting for traffic to clear so he could make his turn. At the time of the crash, he and his wife were talking about getting tires for this vehicle. He was well rested and drives this roadway weekly and is very comfortable with the vehicle. He is in good health and was wearing his glasses because he is near-sighted.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.