This two-vehicle crash occurred at a four-way intersection that is controlled by traffic lights on colors. There are two eastbound and two westbound lanes that are separated by a left turn lane. There are two southbound and tow northbound lanes that are separated by a left turn lane. There is a raised median that the divided the lanes to the north of the intersection. The speed limit on both roadways is posted 56 kmph (35 mph). Both roadways were straight, level and constructed of bituminous asphalt. The roadways were dry and the sky was clear at the time of this morning daylight crash. There was a possible sight line restriction at the northeast corner of the intersection.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Nissan Quest Van with one occupant, was traveling southbound in the number one lane approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Ford F-350 4wd pickup with one occupant, was traveling westbound in the number one lane approaching the intersection. V1 entered the intersection on a red light and traveled across the path of V2. The impact forced V1 to rotate counterclockwise and travel through the intersection while rotating in a southwesterly direction. The vehicle came to rest in the eastbound number two-lane facing in a southwesterly direction. V2 came to a controlled stop to the north off the roadway west of the intersection. The driver of V1 was transported from the scene by EMS. V1 was towed due to damage; V2 was driven. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.

The seventy one (71) year old male drove V1. The driver was not interviewed after several attempts to locate him.

A thirty three (33) year old male drove V2. He said that he was traveling westbound in the number one lane approaching the intersection. He said that he was slowing down while he entered the intersection on a green light. He said that he then saw V1 enter the intersection and travel in front of him. He said that he steered right to avoid but it was too late. He brought his car to a stop west of the intersection. He had left his house about 10 minutes before the crash and was on his way to the golf course to play golf with friends. He said that he does not take any medication and is in good health. The driver works 10 hours a day for the first four days of the week beginning on Monday. The driver also said that he just had new tires put on his pickup with the intention of selling it.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: type of driver error uinknown, due to lack of interview. Illegal maneuver, for disregard of traffic signal, was an associative factor for this driver.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.