The crash occurred in the center of a four-way intersection composed of a two-lane north/southbound roadway, and a two-lane east/westbound roadway. The east/west roadway was bituminous and level, with a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). The north/south roadway was bituminous with a 6% grade, and a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The intersection was controlled by an amber/red flashing light and the north/southbound roadway was also controlled by stop signs on each corner. It was morning on a weekday. The roads were dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was very light.

V1, a 1993 Lincoln Towncar with two occupants, was traveling south. V2, a 2006 Nissan Frontier with one occupant, was traveling east. When V1 entered the intersection its front contacted V2's left side. As the vehicle rotated they side slapped with V1's right side hitting V2's left side. V1 came to rest facing east and V2 came to rest on the grass facing east. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 27-year-old male who reported no injuries, and occupied by a 51-year-old female. Neither occupant was transported. Driver stated that he did not see the stop sign or the flashing control signal, believing that he had the right-of-way and that V2 had the stop, so he continued through the intersection without slowing. V1 applied his brakes in an attempt to avoid V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded “this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as a “false assumption” as the driver assumed that V2 would yield the right-of-way. Associated factors include an illegal maneuver (failed to stop for TCD).

The Driver of V2, a 42-year-old male, reported no injuries. Driver stated that he was traveling at approximately 48 kmph (30 mph) as he entered the intersection, when V1 ran the stop sign and he was struck on the left side. V2 applied his brakes in an attempt to avoid V1.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was “other vehicle encroachment-from crossing street, across path”. No Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to this vehicle.