The crash occurred in the middle of a four-way intersection. There were five lanes of traffic for the west/east bound roadway. There were four lanes of traffic for the north/south roadway. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekend afternoon. The roadway was under major construction and there were only 2 open lanes for the east/westbound traffic. The speed limit was 64 kmph (40 mph). The roadway was straight and level.

V1 was a 2004 Honda Element that was traveling in lane one heading westbound. The driver of V1 entered the intersection and right front of V1 contacted the front of V2, a 2003 Subaru Outlander. Both vehicles were towed due to damages and no one was injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 30-year-old woman who was on her way home from a local florist. The driver was focused on the traffic in front of her and stated that she looked at the light saw it was green then just followed the car in front of her. She stated that she did not know for sure if the light had turned from green to red. The driver admitted that her uncle had just passed away and her mind was elsewhere. She was on her way home to get ready for the funeral. Her car was towed due to the front right tire damage. The driver stated she hit the brakes and steered left to avoid the crash but was unsuccessful.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was “this vehicle passing through the intersection”. The Critical Reason was a driver error, “inadequate surveillance”, as the driver did not look at the light or the intersection. An associative factor was a family problem as she admitted to being distracted because of her uncle's funeral that evening.

The driver of V2 was a 40-year-old woman who was in lane two coming from her home on the way to the grocery store. The driver stated she had a green light and then saw V1 run the red light and hit her in the left front in the middle of the intersection. The driver could not do anything to avoid the crash. Her vehicle was towed due to damages.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was “other vehicle encroachment, crossing street across path”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle, as she was not thought to have contributed to the crash. There were no associative factors related to the driver.