This two-vehicle crash occurred shortly after noon during daylight hours .The location is a rural residential roadway in an intersection controlled by overhead signals. The east/west roadway is a bituminous three-lane straight road, with an uphill grade of 13%. The north/south roadway is a bituminous four-lane straight road, with a downhill grade of -13%. The crash occurred in the intersection. The weather was clear and dry and visibility was clear. The posted speed limit was 48 kmph (30 mph).

Vehicle one (V1) was a 1992 Mercedes Benz I90 4 door sedan driven by a forty four (44) year old female. V1 was traveling eastbound and initiated a left turn at a T-intersection to head north. Vehicle two (V2) was a 1996 Gillig Metro Bus driven by a sixty (60) year old male with five (5) passengers. V2 was traveling southbound in lane two. As V1 entered the intersection, the front of V2 impacted with the left front of V1. V1 rotated clockwise and came to rest facing westbound on the south west corner of the intersection. V2 was not disabled and was driven away from the scene. V1 was towed. The driver of V1 was transported to the local trauma center for treatment. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V2's pre-crash factors are mostly unknown, as he refused to participate in the interview.

The driver of V1, stated she was extremely fatigued, out of it, and very unfocused. She reported having concerns in her family, and or personal relationships as she had discovered in the last two weeks that her husband of 14 years had been having an affair, and when she confronted him, he asked for a divorce. She said following these events she has not been able to eat or sleep much at all for 11 days. She is positive that her lack of sleep is the main contributing factor to this collision. She was so obsessed, and overwhelmed with the situation that she was only able to attend work for a few hours one day, and she asked for an immediate leave of absence. She reported having an argument with her husband within 6 hours of the collision. She reported that she has no hearing or sight restrictions, and she does not take any medications. She is very familiar with the vehicle and roadway as she drives both daily.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason was coded as a driver related factor: inattention (i.e., daydreaming).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. A critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle.