This two-vehicle rear-end crash occurred in a business district on a two-way 5-lane asphalt roadway with a center left-turn lane. The northbound lanes are straight and level and approach a light-controlled intersection. The speed limit is 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred during the early evening during daylight hours with no adverse weather or road conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Mitsubishi Eclipse coupe, had exited a parking lot for a shopping center and entered the northbound roadway from the east. Vehicle two (V2), a 1990 Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme coupe, was stopped at the traffic-controlled intersection north of the parking lot exit. V1 accelerated to be able to enter the roadway from the left and was intending to turn left at the intersection but was traveling too fast to be able to stop in time to avoid impacting V2 from behind. The driver of V1 applied his emergency brake out of panic, then his foot brakes. After the impact, V2 was pushed just past the stop line for the northbound lanes into the intersection. V1 came to rest in the area of impact. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty one (21) year-old male, and his wife were on their way home after a short trip to the store. The driver travels the road weekly and said his vehicle was working well. He is employed and attends college classes. He works Monday - Friday from 6 am to 2 pm and attends classes on Tuesday and Thursday from 6 pm to 10 pm and on Saturday from 8 am to 5 pm. He stated he was thinking about final exams which were soon and the pass or fail grade he would receive. He was concerned about failing and wasting 9 months of schooling. He sleeps 6 hours nightly but had 7 hours the night before. He stated he is usually fatigued every evening and was especially tired that evening. He also stated that he, out of habit, is in a hurry wherever he is going and usually drives that way.

The driver of V2 a forty four (44) year old female and two passengers were unable to be interviewed.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inattention (i.e., daydreaming).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.