This three-vehicle crash occurred in the westbound lanes on an approach to a four-legged intersection. An overhead traffic control device controlled the intersection with pedestrian crosswalks for all directions. The roadway curved left with a 2.3 percent super-elevation and had a -2.5 percent downhill profile. There were five lanes, three straight lanes and two-left turn lanes. This roadway was divided by a non-positive concrete median. The posted speed limit was 72 kmph (45 mph). Setting was late morning hours on a weekday. Conditions were daylight, clear and dry.

Vehicle 1 was a 1988 Nissan Maxima four-door with one occupant that was negotiating a left curve in lane three. Vehicle 2 was a 2004 Sterling tractor-trailer with 10,000lbs of cargo traveling with one occupant negotiating the left curve in lane two. Vehicle 3 was a 2000 Honda Accord four-door with one occupant traveling in lane three, directly in front of V1. V3 was slowing in its lane because the light had just changed to yellow. V1 avoided colliding into the rear of V3 by switching lanes to the right, slightly. When V1 switched lanes, it struck the left tire of V2 with its right front (event 1). That impact caused V1 to swerve left and sideswipe the right side of V3 with its left side (event 2). V1 then steered right and went under the trailer of V2. V2 was accelerating in its lane, while V1 was slowing down. The left rear trailer tires of V2 struck the back, right side of V1 (event 3). The trailer then proceeded to run over the right half of V1 just prior to entering the intersection. V1 got caught up under V2 briefly, and was dragged into the intersection. V1 left 22.7 meters (75 feet) of right tire marks from the point of impact to final rest in the intersection. V2 traveled another 97.6 meters (320 feet) and came to final rest on the right side of the roadway. V3 was drivable and moved behind V2. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 21 year-old female who was transported from the scene for precautionary reasons. She worked two jobs totaling 49 hrs/week. She had spent the night at her friend's house, as she does one night per week. She was running late for work and following closely behind V3 (approximately 30 feet). The traffic light changed to yellow and she reported that V3 slammed on its brakes in lane three. She didn't want to rear-end V3, so she inched over to the right side of her lane while braking. She thought she only departed her lane slightly on the right side. She never checked her side mirror because she didn't think she had to because she only slightly encroached into the right lane. Next thing she saw was an 18-wheeler running over the right side of her car. She thought that this impact caused her car to travel forward and sideswipe V3 with her left side. Her vehicle was dragged into the intersection where it came to rest. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling right side damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling over the lane line on the right side of travel lane." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "Incorrect evasive action.” Several associated factors were coded to the driver of V1. First, inadequate surveillance was coded because she failed to look right before going over the lane line. She never looked right and rearward because she never intended on departing her lane. She admitted to being late for work. At the time of crash she was already 8 minutes late. Because she was late, she was following closely behind V3, which was coded as an aggressive driving act. When she realized a crash with V3 might be imminent, she made a successful avoidance maneuver by steering right and braking. What she failed to do was make sure no traffic was coming in the right lane. She was an inexperienced driver and had her radio on, possibly causing a distraction. She was suffering from bronchitis at the time of the crash. The left rear tire was under-inflated and had inadequate tread depth. The two front tires were over-inflated.

The driver of V2 was a 47 year-old male who reported no injuries. He worked full time as an 18-wheeler driver for a construction company. He reported having 14 years experience with over one million clean miles logged. He left his warehouse about a 1.5 hours prior and was on his way to make a delivery of wood roof trusses (approximately 10,000lbs). He was in a hurry due to having a strict delivery deadline. He got off the interstate onto this unfamiliar roadway to avoid traffic congestion that he heard about on the radio. He was traveling 72 kmph (45 mph) around the left downhill curve in lane two. As he approached the intersection, the light changed to yellow. He knew he couldn't stop due to his speed and heavy cargo, so he accelerated and pulled his air horn with his right hand. He happened to glimpse in his left side mirror and saw V1 go under his trailer. His trailer then came off the ground four feet as it ran over the right side of V1. His vehicle then dragged V1 into the intersection where V1 broke loose and stopped. He pulled his vehicle to the right side of the roadway. He claimed V1 came out of "nowhere" and couldn't understand the crash events. His vehicle was drivable and suffered a minor cargo shift from the left to the right.

The Critical Pr-crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane (same direction)-over right lane line." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. V2's actions' were not the reason for the crash but several associated factors were coded. The driver of V2 was in a hurry. His employer had him on a tight delivery schedule. He stated that he might get fired because he failed to make his delivery on time. He said that he needs several hundred feet to stop. As he came approached the yellow light he accelerated and hit the air horn. Both of these actions indicated aggressive driving behavior that endangered the lives around him. There were no roadway or vehicle factors for this driver.

The driver of V3 was a 52 year-old male who was not injured in the crash. He was unemployed and had some upsetting "life issues" that he didn't wish to discuss. He had spent the night at his sister's house and was on his way back home when he was involved in this accident. He was in lane three traveling at a low speed 32 kmph (20 mph). All he could recall was that V1 struck the right side of his car. Even though the accident between V2 and V1 happened next to and in front of him, he couldn't recall what happened. His vehicle suffered minor sideswipe damage and was driven from the scene.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V3 was "This vehicle not involved in first harmful event." This driver was thinking about unspecified personal problems at the time of the crash. He suffers from a digestive disorder for which he uses prescription medication. He was wearing prescription sunglasses at the time of the crash. No roadway or vehicle factors were coded for this driver.