The crash occurred in the intersection of a five-lane, two-way, dry asphalt roadway. There were two eastbound lanes and two westbound lanes divided by a two-way left turn lane. This was a straight, level, bituminous, roadway with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). It was late at night and the sky was clear.

V1, a 1997 Buick Park Avenue four-door with four occupants, was stopped in the westbound lane three. V2, a 2000 Ford Taurus four-door with three occupants, was stopped in the eastbound lane one. There was a semi truck that was stopped in the eastbound lane two. The driver of V1 was conversing with her friends. One of her friends then told her that the light turned green. The driver of V1 proceeded without looking to see if she had the right-of-way. She stated that she did not see V2 because the Semi was blocking her view. The driver of V2 stated that he saw V1 and the broke-down semi. He stated that he proceeded with caution and wondered if she was going to attempt to turn or if she saw him. He stated that he had just turned to talk to his brother when she started to turn. The driver of V2 stated that he did not have time to apply the brakes, but he did take his foot off the accelerator. The front of V2 contacted the right of V1 before they both came to final rest in the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 16-year old female who reported no injuries. She advised that she had just left one friend's house and was on her way to another friend's house. She advised that she was stopped at the red light for more than ten seconds before proceeding. She stated that the light turned green and instead of waiting for the vehicles with the right-of-way she proceeded. She did not attempt any avoidance actions.

The Critical Precrash Condition for the driver of V1 was this vehicle traveling: turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a driver related factor: internal distraction, because she was looking at and talking to her friends. Some associated factors were inadequate surveillance, inexperienced driver, and a view obstruction.

The driver of V2 was an 18-year old male who reported no injuries. He advised that he had just left from playing cards and was on his way to the store to get something to drink. He advised that he was traveling between 67-80 kmph (41-50 mph) when he made the evasive action of taking his foot off the accelerator.

The Critical Precrash Condition for the driver of V2 was other vehicle encroachment: from opposite direction over left lane line. No Critical Reason was coded for the driver of V2. Some associated factors include rarely driving on this roadway, and a false assumption that she was going to yield the right-of-way.