The crash occurred on a fully controlled highway with two lanes in each direction divided by a grassy median. The level, bituminous roadway has a posted speed limit of 113 kph (70 mph). Conditions at the time of the weekday morning crash were dark, unlighted, cloudy and dry.

V1, a 2007 Chevrolet Cobalt 4 door sedan driven by a 78 year-old male was westbound on the highway in lane two, traveling 113 kph (70 mph) in light traffic. The driver was on his way from home to a work site. A deer came from the median on the left and was in the lane in front of V1. The driver stated that he swerved left to avoid the deer and entered the median on the left. V1 crossed the median in a counter clockwise yaw traveling 66 meters until the right front tire dug into the dirt and V1 rotated clockwise. V1 entered the highway into the eastbound roadway and began to roll on the paved shoulder and partially into lane two. V1 rolled with the left side leading 8-quarter turns, rotated clockwise slightly and rolled onto the left side with the back leading, and struck the front of V2 (eastbound in lane two). V1 rolled left one more time to the roof and came to rest facing south in the median at the edge of the eastbound shoulder. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver was treated at the scene for injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 2000 BMW 540i 4-door sedan was driven by a 49 year-old female traveling eastbound in lane two negotiating a long left hand curve at about 72 mph. The driver was on her way from home to a work site. The driver stated that she saw headlights in the median and then onto the roadway in front of her. The driver of V2 slammed on her brakes (full ABS application) and continued straight in lane two. The driver saw headlights, taillights and then V1 rolled over the front left corner and side of V2. V2 came to a stop in lane two facing east. V2 was driven onto the left shoulder and then towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver refused treatment at the scene.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to V1 was “this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side”. The Critical Reason coded to this driver was “incorrect evasive action”. A Contributing factor coded was 'successful avoidance maneuver to a previous critical event-animal in roadway'.

The Critical Precrash Event and the Critical Reason were not coded to the driver of V2.