This two-vehicle rear-end crash occurred during the early morning hours on a weekend. At the time of the crash it was dark but overhead amber street lighting was present. This downhill-sloped roadway curved right with a two percent super-elevation. There are two westbound and two eastbound lanes divided by a grass median with no positive barriers present. The posted speed limit in the area was 72 kph (45 mph). Roadway conditions were dry and clear with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

V1 is a 1995 Ford Ranger, compact pickup with one occupant traveling westbound in lane two. V2 is a 1994 Mercedes C220, four-door intermediate with one occupant traveling westbound directly in front of V1. V1 was traveling at a higher rate of speed than V2. When V1 noticed V2 in its lane, V1 made a sharp maneuver to the right, partially departing lane two and entering lane one to avoid colliding into the rear of V2. V1 was unsuccessful and struck the back, right plane of V2 with its front, left plane (Event 1). After impact, V1 traveled toward the left, departing the roadway into the grass median. V1 then exited the median and crossed both eastbound lanes and struck a utility pole of the south roadside with its front, center plane (Event 2). V1 then backed up and came to rest on the south roadside facing east, 85.0 meters (279 feet) from original impact point. After impact, V2 lost control in the westbound lanes and started in a slight clockwise yaw. V1 then regained control before departing the roadway to the right. V2 came to rest facing southwest 78.1 meters (256 feet) from original contact point. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1 and 97 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 19 year-old male who was not injured in the crash. He had been awake for 23 hours since his last sleep. He had worked all day lying tile, then drove to his friend's house for a party. He had spent the night at his friend's party where he reported staying awake all night. He denied any drug or alcohol usage at that party. When the crash occurred he was on his way home. He had just got in a major argument with his friend and was going home because he was angry and upset. He wouldn't tell me what the argument was about. While he was driving on a road he rarely drives, his friend called him and they were arguing with each other on the phone. He says he was in lane two traveling 80 kph (50 mph). He came up on V2, but never saw her until she applied her brakes. He was coming up on her quickly and tried to steer right to avoid contacting her. He didn't have enough time and contacted the back of V2. He then lost control of his truck, crossed the grass median to the left, crossed two eastbound lanes and struck a utility pole with his front-end. He told police that he did not contact the utility pole, but they later figured it out due to extensive front-end damage. His vehicle was towed from the scene.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with lower steady speed." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "inadequate surveillance, failed to look far enough ahead"-a driver related error. He had only had one hour of sleep in a twenty-four hour period and was likely fatigued. He had just had an argument with a friend and was in an angry and upset mood while he was driving. Arguing with his friend on his cell phone while driving distracted him. Due to him being distracted by the argument on the cell phone, he failed to look far enough ahead and recognize a vehicle was in his lane of travel. He was traveling too fast for conditions, didn't realize caution was need. He was an inexperienced driver (2 years driving), driving on a roadway he rarely drives. His right, rear tire lacked safe tread depth. All the windows of his truck were very dirty, possibly contributing to him not seeing V2.

*Despite all of his tires being the same age, the RR had significantly less tread depth. A possible cause could be aggressive driving behavior (squealing tires from a stop).

The driver of V2 is a 60 year-old female who was not injured in the crash. She woke up early this day to go to a friend's house where they take a long walk to promote good health. She makes this trip to her friend's house daily. She was negotiating the right downhill curve between 48 kph (30 mph) and 64 kph (40 mph). Due to the steep grade, she applied her brakes in an attempt to slow her vehicle down. At that point she was unexpectedly rear-ended by V1. She never saw him coming prior to impact. After impact, she lost control of her vehicle and spun off the right side of the road. Her vehicle suffered non-disabling body damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with a higher steady speed." The Critical Reason was "not coded to this vehicle." Listening to the radio was her only non-driving activity. All four of her tires lacked safe tread depth and were all under-inflated.