This crash occurred in the intersection of a 3-lane divided highway and a private driveway from a service station. The divided highway lanes were level, bituminous and curved slightly to the left. The posted speed limit was 89kmph (55mph). It was the early afternoon on a weekday. Traffic flow was moderately heavy.

V1 was a 1997 Cadillac Eldoroado 2-door coupe that was driven by a 57-year old male who was traveling alone. V1 was exiting a service station and attempting a left turn at a designated crossover. As V1 crossed over the third northbound lane, it was struck by V2, a 2006 Freightliner Sprinter large van. V2 had been traveling in lane three at a constant velocity. V1 was struck on the left side by the front of V2. This impact sent V2 into a counterclockwise rotation and V1 skidded laterally into the guardrail. The driver stated that he saw V2 approaching from a distance but did not know he was going as fast as he was. He said that as he neared the crossover he felt the hit and was tossed around. He said that when his head was clear, he tried to remove himself from the vehicle but could not unbuckle the seatbelt. He stated that a woman came over to assist him but could not help him out of the car. He also stated that she stated that she was traveling behind V2 and that she was traveling about 65 mph versus V2 who was traveling much faster than she was. The driver was airlifted to a shock trauma center for injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2 was driven by a 25-year old male who was traveling alone. He stated that he was traveling down lane three at a constant rate of speed when he saw V1 enter the roadway. He said he assumed that V1 was going to turn into the same direction of the roadway he was traveling on. He said he was shocked to see V1 continue toward the crossover when he was so close to him. He said he slammed on his brakes but it was too late and he struck V1. He said he does not remember swerving but from the looks of the tracks of his vehicle, he did. The driver was not injured.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver related error, a misjudgment of speed of other vehicle. The driver saw V2 but continued on because he assumed that he could cross over in time. Associated factors include the medical conditions of cirrhosis of the liver, diabetes, and hypertension. A paramedic stated that driver of V1 had a heavy smell of alcohol when he treated him. A small bottle of alcohol was seen in the passenger rear floor of the vehicle. Medical reports did not indicate an alcohol test was conducted.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from driveway, turning into opposite direction. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to V2.