This three-vehicle crash occurred approximately thirty-four meters past a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. At the crash site, the roadway is divided by a curbed median and the southbound traffic lanes consist of three through lanes. This roadway is straight, level, and has a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred in the early afternoon on a weekday; traffic flow was heavy.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Chevrolet Malibu with two occupants, was traveling southbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1990 Honda Accord with two occupants, was stopped in lane one, in front of V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 2005 Subaru Outback with one occupant, was stopped in lane one, in front of V2. V1 failed to stop for traffic and the front of V1 contacted the rear of V2. V2 was pushed forward from the impact and the front of V2 collided with the rear of V3. All vehicles came to final rest facing south in lane one near the points of impact. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. No one was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a nineteen-year-old female, was driving from her home to no particular destination. She took the trip to soothe her infant son and to try to get him to go to sleep. She was talking to him and reaching down with her right hand to retrieve his bottle at the time of the crash. She has an interrupted sleep pattern since the baby doesn't sleep through the night yet. She averages about five hours of sleep a night. She was very comfortable with her vehicle and drives this route daily. She is in good health, but had a slight cold and had taken Ibuprofen for it.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane; other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction. Driver fatigue, inadequate surveillance, and talking with passenger were coded as associative factors.

The driver of V2, a sixteen-year-old female, was driving from a friend's house to go to lunch. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route weekly. She is in good health and takes no medications. She has been driving for 2 months and had not taken any driver education courses. The driver stated she had been stopped for 5-10 seconds before the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane-traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V3, a sixty-nine-year-old male, was driving from his home and going to a store. He was well rested, very comfortable with his vehicle, and drives this route weekly. He is in good health and stated that he does take medications, but declined to name them. He is completely deaf and has no hearing aid.

V3 was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.