Case Summary 2007-43-111

This single-vehicle fatal crash occurred off the right hand side of the road at a three-legged, rural, signal-controlled intersection. This east/west roadway is straight with a slight downhill grade with bituminous asphalt pavement. There were paved shoulders present in all directions of travel. North/south road sagged as it intersected the east/west road. Setting was late evening hours on a weekday. Conditions were dry and dark with no artificial ambient lighting. Traffic flow was very light at the time of the crash. Police Reported Travel Speed is 145 kmph for V1.

V1 is a 1992 Lexus with two occupants traveling eastbound in lane one. V1 approached the tee-intersection at a high rate of speed with the intention of turning left and traveling north. V1 made the left turn leaving a 9.1 meter (30 foot) right side yaw marks in the intersection. V1 entered the northbound lane, then immediately ran off the road to the right. V1 struck a utility pole with its right side, 4.1 meters (13.5 feet) off the roadway (east) (Event 1). V1 then steered left in an attempt to re-enter the roadway and struck a metal 40 cm (1.3 foot) post with its bottom plane (Event 2). Distance from event 1 to event 2 is 9.5 meters (31 feet). V1 then went airborne, and began to rollover right side leading down an embankment with a -51% slope (Event 3). The vertical distance from street level to bottom of the creek bed is 7.6 meters (25 feet). V1 rolled 2 quarter turns landing on its top at the bottom of the shallow creek bed. V1 then bounced off the creek bed and struck a large diameter tree with its undercarriage (Event 4). V1 then came to final rest on its top where the vehicle caught fire. During the rollover sequence, the driver was ejected from the vehicle. The passenger remained in the vehicle and died on-scene of traumatic injuries.

The driver of V1 is a 19 year-old male who was transported from the scene with life-threatening injuries. According to police, there have been numerous complaints of a vehicle fitting the description of V1 traveling recklessly in the area prior to the crash. A Sherriff's deputy claims that a mile or so before the crash, V1 passed him in the opposite direction traveling well above the posted speed limit of 72 kph (45 mph). The deputy did not have a radar unit in his vehicle to confirm the driver's speed. The deputy did turn around in an attempt to pursue V1, but V1 gained speed and sped away down the curvy road. The deputy quickly lost eyesight of V1, therefore cancelling the pursuit. The same deputy was one of the first people to arrive on-scene of the fiery crash. V1 was towed from the scene with disabling damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “This vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side.” The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was “Too fast for curve/turn” a driver error. Although the driver was not interviewed, physical evidence present on-scene indicated the driver was traveling at a high rate of speed while attempting to turn left. The vehicle contained aftermarket wheels and tires; the only intact tire was the right, front tire, containing 365 kPa (53 psi) of air pressure. This was coded as an over-inflation tire/wheel deficiency. The roadway was dark with no overhead lighting, possibly causing the driver not to be able to see far enough ahead of him. He was likely joyriding and speeding to elude the police vehicle that he just passed. The driver was also inexperienced. He just turned 19 years-old and at most only has 2-3 years driving experience.