This nine-vehicle crash occurred starting approximately 62 meters (203 feet) before a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection and involved vehicles traveling toward the intersection as well as vehicles stopped at the intersection. On the west side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a curbed median and the eastbound traffic lanes consist of a right-turn lane, three through lanes, and two left-turn lanes. This roadway is straight and level, with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred in the early afternoon on a weekend with moderate traffic flow.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Chevrolet Blazer with three occupants, was traveling eastbound in lane two, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Ford Bronco with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane three, in front of V1. V1 changed lanes to the left and impacted the back of V2 with its front. V2 was pushed to the left to enter lane four and V1 passed V2 in lane three. Vehicle three (V3), a 1996 Ford Explorer with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane three, approaching the intersection in front of V1. V1 impacted the back of V3 with its front. V3 was pushed forward and impacted the back of vehicle four (V4), a 2001 Mitsubishi Eclipse with one occupant, with its front. V3 impacted with the back of V4 with the front of V3 while still in lane three. Vehicle five (V5), a 1998 Jeep Cherokee with one occupant, was either stopped or coming to a stop at the intersection, eastbound in lane three. The driver of V5 heard the crashes behind him and began to pull into lane four to get out of the way. V1 impacted the back of V5 with its front. The front of V5 then impacted the back of vehicle six (V6), a 1997 Ford F-250 with one occupant, which was stopped at the intersection in lane four. With its back plane, V6 impacted the front of vehicle seven (V7), a 2003 Dodge Ram with one occupant, which was slowly moving forward at the intersection in lane five. Vehicle eight (V8), a 1991 Honda Prelude with one occupant, was stopped at the intersection in lane three. The driver of V8 heard the crashes behind him and pulled a little to the right to get out of the way. V1 impacted the back of V8 with its front. Vehicle nine (V9), a 1996 Volvo 850 with two occupants, was stopped in front of V8 in lane three. V8 impacted the back of V9 with its front. V3 and V4 were moved after final rest to the right turn lane on the south of the intersection. V2 was moved after final rest between lanes one and two on the west side of the intersection. V1 came to final rest at the final point of impact with V8. V6, V7, V8, and V9 came to final rest near the points of impact. V1, V3, V5, and V8 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1 and 80 kmph for V2.

Little is known about the driver of V1, a twenty-four-year-old male, since he could not be reached for an interview. The police report states that the first impact was due to his being distracted by an infant passenger and his airbags deployed upon impact, further distracting him from the driving task. Persons at the scene of the crash indicated that there were two small children in the vehicle. Medical records indicate the driver had been involved in two prior collisions. The investigating officer estimated V1 was traveling at a speed of 80 kmph (50 mph) at the time of impact. There were no indications any avoidance actions had been taken. The driver distraction caused V1 to drift to the left into the adjacent travel lane and impact the back of V2. The police report indicates the airbag deployed after the first impact blocking the driver's view of forward traffic. Vehicle data suggest the vehicle accelerated for several seconds prior to the airbag deployment. It is possible the driver may have hit the accelerator instead of the gas pedal.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with lower steady speed. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor; internal distraction.

The driver of V2, a fifty-year-old-female, was driving from one store and going to another store to do some Christmas shopping. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route rarely. She is in good health and takes Levothyroxine (a thyroid hormone replacement) for hypothyroidism on a regular basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V3, a fifty-five-year-old female, was driving from her home to work. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route daily. She is in good health, but has high blood pressure and an irregular heartbeat. She takes the medications diovan hydrochlorothiazide and toprol for these conditions.

V3 thru V9 were not involved first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to these vehicles.