This case involves an initial minor sideswipe impact followed by a moderate narrow-frontal impact event resulting in serious injuries to the left rear passenger (case occupant). The crash occurred during daylight hours in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred on a two-lane bituminous roadway basically straight in origin and without any intersection or traffic control device involvement. The roadway is level and divided by a painted median at the crash location. The speed limit on the road is 45 mph ( 72 km/h) both ways. The case vehicle one ( V1- case vehicle) a 2001 four-door Oldsmobile Intrigue was being driven northbound and vehicle two (V2) a 2003 four-door Chevrolet Malibu was being driven southbound. The crash occurred when V1 crossed over the centerline the left front corner area engaged the left plane of V2 in a sideswipe manner. V1 continued across the oncoming travel lane, exited the roadway and impacted a chain link fence and utility pole, located directly behind the fence, in a frontal offset configuration. V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to final rest facing west on the grass partially on the shoulder of the road and V2 came to rest facing east in the southbound lane partially on the shoulder of the road. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage. EDR data was downloaded from V1. V1 was driven by a 40 year old male who was not using the available 3-point manual belt and the available steering wheel mounted air bag did not deploy as a result of the impact. The case occupant, a 9 year old male, was seated in the 2nd row, left position and restrained using the available 3-point manual belt, with the shoulder portion behind his back. V2 was occupied by the driver only, a 74 year old female who was not using the 3-point manual belt and the side air bag deployed as a result of impact. The driver of V1 and the case occupant were transported with serious injuries by ground ambulance to a nearby trauma center. Upon evaluation from the trauma center, the case occupant was transported to a pediatric trauma center by ground ALS unit. The driver of V2 is a 74 year old female and was reported to be unrestrained. The driver of V2 was transported to the nearest trauma center with unknown injuries.