This case involves a moderate rear impact event resulting in serious injuries to the right-rear case occupant. Vehicle one (V1 - case vehicle), a 1999 four-door Ford Escort sedan, V1 had stopped in the left eastbound turn lane of a four-lane, two way roadway, waiting to turn left at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Honda CRV SUV, was traveling behind V1 and vehicle three (V3), a 1996 four-door Hyundai Elantra station wagon, was stopped at the intersection in front of V1. The roadway is straight and level at the intersection. It was daylight, the weather was clear and the bituminous (asphalt) road was dry. The driver of V1 had stopped in the left turn lane when the frontal plane of V2 impacted the back end plane of V1. V1 continued to travel forward and frontal plane of V1 contacted the rear end plane of V3. The second event was a minor one resulting in no damage to the front bumper of V1. V1, V2 and V3 all came to final rest facing east in the left turn lane. The 21-year-old female driver of V1 (non-case occupant) was using the available three-point seat belt and the steering-wheel air bag did not deploy. She was not injured and did not seek medical treatment. A 45-year-old male (non-case occupant) was restrained in 3-point seat belt in the right front seat. He was not injured and did not seek medical treatment. The rear seat was occupied by three children. A 3-year-old male (case occupant) occupied right rear and was restrained by the 5-point harness of a forward facing child safety seat. The child safety seat was attached to the vehicle by the 3-point seat belt. He was transported with serious injuries by air to the nearest trauma center. A 3-year old male (non-case occupant) was seated in the left rear restrained by the T-shield of a forward facing child restraint attached to the vehicle by the 3-point seatbelt. He was not injured and did not seek medical treatment. A 6-year-old male (non-case occupant) was seated in the center rear position restrained by the lap belt used with a booster seat. He was not injured and did not seek medical treatment.