This case involves a moderate frontal impact resulting in pelvis injuries to the belt and airbag restrained left front case occupant. The crash occurred on a north-south three-lane, two-way undivided roadway (two northbound lanes, one southbound lane). At the area of impact, the northbound lanes of travel begin narrowing to one lane. Vehicle one (V1 - case vehicle), a 2007 Honda Odyssey 4-door minivan, was travelling in the left northbound lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2008 Pontiac Torrent SUV, was travelling south in the single southbound lane. It was dark at the time of the crash, with overhead lighting located about 225 feet south of the impact area. The roadway was dry and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit for the roadway was 80 km/h (50 mph). The crash occurred when V1 drifted over the double yellow centerline into the path of travel of V2. The driver of V2 steered right in an attempt to avoid the collision, but was unable to do so. The front left corner of V1 impacted the front left corner of V2 in an offset frontal configuration. Post-impact, V1 rotated counter-clockwise approximately 120 degrees, coming to rest in the northbound lanes of travel facing southwest. V2 also rotated counter-clockwise 120 degrees, coming to rest on the southbound shoulder facing northeast. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The 41 year old male driver (case occupant) was restrained using the available 3-point lap and shoulder belt with pretensioner. The steering wheel-mounted frontal, side curtain, and seat-mounted thorax airbags deployed for his seating position. He sustained a pelvis fracture and superficial abrasions. Also in the case vehicle were a 38 year old female in the right front seat. She restrained using the lap and shoulder belt with pretensioner. The extent of her injuries was unknown. In the 2nd row left seating position was a 2 year old female of unknown height and weight. She was restrained using a forward-facing child restraint and sustained only superficial injuries. In the 2nd row right seating position was a 5 year old male of unknown height and weight. He was restrained using a booster seat and also sustained only superficial injuries.