This case involves multiple side impact crashes resulting in severe injuries to the 2nd row right seat passenger (case occupant #1), serious injuries to the 3rd row left seat passenger (case occupant #2) and moderate injuries to the 3rd row right seat passenger (case occupant #3). Vehicle The vehicle (V1- case vehicle), a 2001 Toyota Sienna minivan, was being driven in a southwesterly direction and vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Toyota Corolla, was being driven in a northeasterly direction on the intersecting road approaching the stop sign. Scene The crash occurred during daylight hours in dry and clear weather on a level roadway. The collision occurred on a two way two-lane bituminous roadway at a 4-way intersection. The southeast-northwest roadway, controlled by two stop signs, intersects a northeast-southwest roadway. The roadway has more than 2 % upward gradient for the northwestbound roadway before the intersection. Travel lanes for both roadways are separated by double yellow line. There is a utility pole in the west corner of the intersection approximately 22 m (73 feet) from the west corner of the intersection. The speed limit on northeast-southwest roadway is 75 km/h (45 mph) and 58 km/h (35 mph) for the intersecting road. Crash V1 was traveling southwest on the northeast-southwest roadway and was intending to go straight through the intersection. V2 was traveling northwest on the intersecting (northwest-southeast roadway) roadway and entered the intersection after the stop sign. The front plane of V2 impacted the left side plane of V1. V1 rotated counterclockwise and departed the roadway at the west corner of the intersection, tripping the vehicle into a partial roll. The right side plane and roof impacted the utility pole, induced a clockwise rotation around the pole and subsequent quarter turn roll. V1 came to rest on its right side facing north partially on the westbound roadway and partially on the shoulder. V2 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest on its right side plane facing northeast on the east corner of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage. Both the frontal air bags deployed due to crash for V1. Occupants There were six occupants in V1 of which three were the case occupants. The 6 yr old female(case occupant 1), seated in the right second row, was restrained by 3-point lap and shoulder belt on a high back booster seat. She sustained severe injuries and was transported by helicopter to a pediatric trauma center. The 11 year old male (case occupant 2) was restrained by the manual 3 point belt in the 3rd row left seat position. He sustained extremity and superficial injuries. The 7 year old female (case Occupant 3) was in the 3rd row right seat position in a low back belt positioning booster seat used with the available 3 point belt. She sustained head and facial injuries and was initially transported by ground to a local trauma center then subsequently transferred by ground to a pediatric trauma center. V1 was driven by a 41 year old male who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt. The driver sustained no injuries and was not transported to the hospital. A 41 year old female in right front seat was restrained by the 3-point manual belt and she was reported to have sustained nasal bone fracture, facial contusions and abrasions. Both the steering wheel mounted air bag and the passenger air bag deployed. A 4 year old male restrained by the 5-point harness of a forward facing convertible seat was seated in the 2nd row left seat position and sustained only minor injuries. The right front passenger and the left second row passengers and were transported by ground to a local ER. V2 was occupied by the driver only, a 64 year old female who was restrained with a 3-point manual belt and was reported to have deployed steering wheel mounted air bag. The driver of V2 was not injured and not transported to a hospital.