This case involved the 57 year old female right front passenger of a 2009 Toyota Avalon four door sedan (V1). V1 was struck in the left side by a 1998 Nissan Maxima four door sedan (V2). This first impact was followed by a two quarter turn rollover by V1 and by V2 striking a utility pole and catching on fire. The right front passenger of V1 (our case subject) was wearing the available three point manual safety belt and had a deployed frontal airbag. The right side impact airbags did not deploy in the crash. The 59 year old male driver of V1 was also restrained by his safety belt and had deployed frontal and side airbags. The adult male passenger in the center rear seat of V1 was unrestrained. The crash occurred during daylight hours at the intersection of a multi-lane highway and a private drive. There were no adverse weather conditions at the time of the crash and the asphalt roadway was dry. The private drive contained three lanes with the center lane being a left turn only and had a 1% uphill grade. The east/west highway had six travel lanes with the right eastbound lane designed for right turns only. The center lane was a turn lane for both directions of traffic. The posted speed limit for this trafficway was 72 kph (45 mph). There was no posted speed limit for the private drive. V1, which was northbound, was stopped in the right lane of the private drive, waiting to turn right onto the multi-lane highway. V2 was traveling east in the second lane of the highway at an unknown rate of speed when his right front tire blew out and the driver lost control. V2 traveled into the right turn lane and continued forward across the private drive and struck V1 in the left front quarter panel. V1 rotated clockwise and traveled over the curb and down a steep embankment, rolling two quarter turns to final rest on its top. V2 continued forward and down the embankment striking a wooden utility pole with its frontal plane. A minor fire was ignited in the engine compartment of V2. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to disabling damage. All three passengers of V1 were transported by ground ambulance to a level one trauma center. The driver and right front passenger (case subject) were hospitalized and the center rear passenger was treated and released from the emergency department.