This crash involves a restrained 55 year old female driver in a 2013 Nissan Sentra (V1). V1 was equipped with dual frontal airbags, dual side airbags, and dual side curtains. The left outboard seat-mounted airbag and left side curtain were the only airbags to deploy during the crash. V2, a 2009 Toyota Camry was also involved in the crash. The crash occurred during the daylight hours at the intersection of a two-way, two-lane roadway that was controlled by a stop sign and an uncontrolled two-way, six lane traffic way that was divided by a grass median. The two lane roadway ran north to south and the six lane traffic way ran east to west. The posted speed limit for both vehicles was 40 kph (25 mph) and 80 kph (60 mph), respectively. There were no adverse weather conditions. The two vehicles in the crash were traveling in level travel lanes. V1 was stopped at a stop sign headed south in the southbound lane of the two lane roadway. V2 was traveling west in the far left straight lane of the westbound lanes approaching the intersection. V1 began to accelerate from stop in an attempt to crossover the westbound lanes. V2 attempted to pass through the intersection. The front of V2 contacted the left side of V1. After impact, V1 rotated clockwise and V2 rotated counterclockwise causing both vehicles to side slap. The left rear quarter panel of V1 contacted the right front door of V2. After this second impact, V1 entered the far right straight lane of the westbound lanes and came to rest while partially in both straight lanes of the westbound lanes. V1 faced northwest at final rest. V2 entered the median after the second impact then continued across the median and eastbound lanes. V2 came to rest on the roadside adjacent to the eastbound lanes, facing south. Both vehicles were towed from the crash scene due to disabling damage. The driver of V1 was transported to a local hospital; however, she was later transported to a level one trauma center for additional treatment of serious injuries sustained in the crash.