This case focuses on both a restrained 17 year old female right front passenger and a restrained 18 year old male right rear passenger both in a 2008 Ford Mustang (V1). There was also a restrained 18 year old male driver and a restrained 18 year old left rear male passenger in V1. V2, a 1991 Mazda 626 was also involved in the crash. There were dual frontal airbags and outboard seatback airbags in the case vehicle. The dual frontal airbags (driver and passenger) deployed during the crash. The crash occurred during the daylight hours on a two-way, divided traffic way with two southbound lanes and two northbound lanes. Both roadways were separated by a grass median with an asphalt crossover area. The roadways were dry and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limits for both directions of travel were 55 mph (89 kph). The southbound lanes had an uphill slope. The northbound lanes had a downhill slope. V1 was traveling south in the right lane of the southbound travel lanes. V2 was traveling north in the left lane of the northbound lanes. V2 drifted left off the roadway into the median. This caused the driver of V2 to steer right in an attempt to maneuver her vehicle back into its travel lane. The driver of V2 overcorrected sending V2 right across the left northbound lane and then into the right northbound lane. The driver of V2 overcorrected a second time (steering left) sending V2 left and across the median's crossover area while rotating in a counterclockwise yaw. V2 entered the travel lane of V1 which caused the front left of V1 to contact the right front of V2. After the initial impact, V1 rotated clockwise and V2 rotated counterclockwise causing the two vehicles to side slap. The left rear of V1 contacted the right rear of V2. V2 was pushed southbound while rotating counterclockwise and came to rest in the right southbound lane facing north. The driver of V2 was completely ejected from her vehicle during the crash sequence and died on the scene. V1 continued southwest after impact and departed the roadway to the right. V1 crossed an intersecting road and a private drive then came to rest on the roadside facing southwest. Both vehicles were towed from the crash scene due to disabling damage. The right front and right rear passengers of V1 were transported to a level one trauma center by ground ambulances. They both were hospitalized overnight and treated for moderate injuries sustained in the crash. The driver and left rear occupant were also transported to a trauma center for treatment of unknown injuries.