This crash focuses on a restrained 72 year old female driver in a 2014 Kia Forte (V1). There was also an unknown age restrained right front female passenger in V1. V1 was equipped with dual frontal airbags, dual side curtains, and dual first row side airbags. Both steering wheel and top instrument panel mounted airbags, right outboard seatback mounted airbag, and side curtains deployed during the crash. V2, a 2005 Ford Crown Victoria, and V3, a 1999 Isuzu Trooper were also involved in the crash. The crash occurred near a four-legged intersection controlled by a traffic signal. The south leg of the intersection consisted of six asphalt, dry, and undivided lanes with negative grades. There were four northbound lanes on the south leg of the intersection (a left turn lane, right turn lane, and two straight lanes). The north leg of the intersection consisted of five asphalt, dry, and undivided lanes. On the leg north of the intersection there were three southbound lanes (one left turn lane), and two northbound lanes. The posted speed limit for the north and southbound lanes was 64 kph (40 mph). There were no adverse weather conditions. V1 was traveling north in lane three while decelerating and attempting to enter the left turn lane. V2 was trailing V1 and attempting to go straight while also in lane three of the northbound lanes. V3 was approaching the intersection while heading south in lane two of the southbound lanes crossing over the intersection. The driver of V2 didn't notice V1 slowing. As V1 entered the left turn lane its rear right bumper was contacted by the front left bumper of V2. This impact pushed V1 left and across the left turn lane then into the opposing northbound lane. As V1 entered the northbound lane, its front contacted the front of V3. V1 rotated counterclockwise after impact and moved northeast where it came to rest in its original travel lane facing southeast. V2 continued left and across both southbound lanes and departed the roadway where it came to rest while partially straddling the roadside and southbound lane facing northwest. V3 rotated clockwise after impact and moved southwest across the outside travel lane. V3 then departed the roadway and came to rest on the roadside facing southwest. All three vehicles were towed from the crash scene due to disabling damage. The driver of V1 was transported to a level one trauma center by ground. There she received treatment for moderate injuries that she sustained in the crash.