This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 64-year-old male belted driver with deployed front and side airbags. This occupant was driving an intermediate size coupe when it sustained severe damage in an angled crash with a large utility vehicle. This occupant sustained moderate injuries in the crash. The crash occurred during late afternoon hours on a dry road in clear conditions. A 2008 Honda Civic intermediate size coupe (Vehicle 1) was stopped facing west at a four-way intersection waiting to turn left from a neighborhood road. The intersection was controlled with tri-colored signals. The road was bituminous and set on a 5% downhill grade. A 2006 Dodge Durango large utility vehicle (Vehicle 2) was traveling north on a divided road approaching the same intersection. The grade was 5% uphill for V2. V1 began turning left at the intersection as V2 continued straight through the intersection. The left front fender of V1 was impacted by the front plane of V2 (Event 1). V2 spun rapidly in a clockwise rotation due to the point of contact well away from V1's center of mass and the much larger mass of V2. V1 rotated approximately 210 degrees before its back right corner side-slapped the right plane of V2 (Event 2). V1 rotated a further 110 degrees before coming to rest in the northeast corner of the intersection. V2 continued approximately 60 meters north of the point of impact before coming to rest in the highway median. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. V1 was driven by a 64-year-old male driver. He was wearing the available lap and shoulder belt as evidenced by latch plate loading and a paid-out belt system. The retractor and buckle pretensioners actuated. The vehicle was not equipped with anchor pretensioners. The steering wheel hub, left outboard seatback, and both curtain airbags deployed in the crash. The available right instrument panel and right outboard seatback airbags did not deploy. There were no other airbags installed in this vehicle. This occupant was transported to a trauma center for treatment of moderate injuries. There were no other occupants in the vehicle.