This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an 82-year-old female belted right front passenger with deployed front airbags. This occupant was riding in a compact pickup truck when it was involved in a head-on collision with a compact coupe, resulting in minor damage to the case vehicle. This occupant sustained serious injuries in the crash. The crash occurred midafternoon on a snow-covered road in snowing conditions. A 2011 Toyota Tacoma compact pickup (Vehicle 1) was traveling southeast on a bituminous two-lane rural road negotiating a left curve. The road grade was level in V1's direction of travel. A 2007 Pontiac G5 compact coupe (Vehicle 2) was traveling northwest negotiating the curve in the opposite direction. The grade was 3% uphill in V2's direction of travel. V1 had signage warning of a curve ahead that recommended a speed of 72 km/h (45 mph). V2 lost control on the snow-covered road and departed its lane to the left side, encroaching into V1's lane of travel. V1 braked and steered right in avoidance. Both vehicles traveled partially off the southwest edge of the road. The front of V1 impacted the front of V2 (Event 1). V1 came to rest at impact. V2 struck a guardrail face adjacent to the initial point of impact with its left front wheel (Event 2) and came to rest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. V1 was occupied by an 82-year-old female right front passenger. She was wearing the available lap and shoulder belt as evidenced by 7 cm of payout to the lap belt and friction burning to the plastic latch plate. The retractor pretensioner was actuated, leaving the belt in the payed out position. The vehicle was not equipped with buckle or anchor pretensioners. The steering wheel hub and top right instrument panel airbags deployed in the crash. The available first row outboard seatback and curtain airbags did not deploy. This occupant was transported to a local hospital before being transferred to a trauma center for treatment of serious injuries. The case vehicle was driven by a 57-year-old female. She was wearing the available seat belt and front airbags deployed. She suffered non-incapacitating injuries in the crash according to police. The vehicle was also occupied by a 14-year-old female right rear passenger. She was wearing the available seat belt and sustained minor injuries according to police.