This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of the driver and right front passenger of a full size sedan involved in a full frontal head-on crash. The driver was a 44-year-old belted female with deployed front and side airbags who suffered moderate injuries. The right front passenger was a 68-year-old belted male with deployed front and side airbags who sustained severe injuries but died at the trauma center. The case vehicle incurred severe damage. The crash occurred during mid-afternoon hours in clear weather on a dry road. A 2011 Cadillac CTS full size sedan (Vehicle 1) was traveling northwest approaching a three-way intersection with a cross street on the right. The bituminous urban road was straight with a negligible grade for this vehicle. A 2015 Chevrolet Camaro full size convertible (Vehicle 2) was traveling southeast on the same road. There were no traffic controls for either vehicle. V1 passed through the intersection. V2 began prematurely turning left at the intersection before reaching the appropriate lane of travel, crossing the center line into V1's lane of travel. The front of V1 impacted the front of V2 in a full frontal configuration (Event 1). V1 rotated 90 degrees clockwise after impact, coming to rest in the road. V2 rotated counterclockwise after impact and traveled off the northeast side of the road to its left, impacting a chain-link fence with its front (Event 2). Both vehicles were towed due to damage. V1 was driven by a 44-year-old belted female. The retractor and anchor pretensioners were actuated. No buckle pretensioner was installed. The steering wheel hub and left curtain airbags deployed. The available left outboard seatback airbag did not deploy. The driver suffered moderate injuries and was transported to a local trauma center. V1 was also occupied by a 68-year-old male right front passenger. He was using the available lap and shoulder belt with actuated retractor and anchor pretensioners. His right front instrument panel airbag and right curtain airbag deployed, while his seatback airbag did not. He was transported to a local trauma center for treatment of severe injuries but did not survive.