This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 59-year-old female belted driver with deployed side airbags. This occupant was driving a compact utility vehicle when it was involved in a left plane, angled impact to a medium/heavy pickup truck. The case vehicle sustained moderate damage. This occupant sustained moderate injuries in the crash. The crash occurred mid-morning on a wet road in the rain. A 2009 Lexus RX 350 compact utility (Vehicle 1) was traveling west on a three-lane two-way divided road approaching a four-way intersection. The road was on a 3% uphill grade. A 1988 Ford Super Duty large pickup truck (Vehicle 2) was traveling north approaching the same intersection on a 3% downhill grade. Both vehicles were intending to proceed straight. A 2004 Chevrolet Silverado pickup truck (Vehicle 3) was parked at the entrance to a paved lot off the northwest corner of the intersection. Vehicles 1 and 2 proceeded straight through the intersection at right angles to each other. The left plane of V1 was struck by the front plane of V2 (Event 1). V2 came to rest in the intersection, northwest of the point of impact. V1 continued off the northwest corner of the intersection, striking the front of V3 with its front plane while it was parked (Event 2). V1 came to rest at impact with V3. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed due to damage, while V3 was left at the scene. The case vehicle was occupied by a 59-year-old female belted driver. She was wearing the available lap and shoulder belt as evidenced by the belt found in the payed out position at inspection with retractor pretensioner actuation. No buckle or anchor pretensioners were installed. The left curtain airbag and left outboard seat back airbag were deployed. Other available airbags which were not deployed were installed in the steering wheel hub, left knee bolster, right instrument panel, right outboard seat back, and right roof side rail. This occupant was transported to a hospital before being transferred to a trauma center for treatment of moderate injuries.