This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 31 year old female driver of a 2000 Pontiac Grand Prix GTP 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a 2006 Nissan Titan Crew Cab 4x2 pickup truck (Vehicle 2). This investigation also focused on the injury mechanisms of Vehicle 2's restrained 23 year old male driver. The case vehicle (Vehicle 2) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal air bag deployed as a result of the offset frontal collision with case Vehicle 1. Vehicle 1 was southbound on a two-lane rural roadway, and proceeding straight on a downhill grade. Vehicle 2 was northbound, and just exited a left curve into the straightaway. It was daylight, with cloudy weather conditions as the road was covered with ice. Vehicle 2 reportedly broke traction on the slick road surface, and crossed the centerline into the path of the southbound Pontiac. As Vehicle 2 entered the southbound travel lane, the front left area impacted the front left area of Vehicle 1. Impact resulted in severe damage to each vehicle. Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise, and came to rest on the west shoulder of the road facing northeast. Vehicle 2 rotated counterclockwise, and came to rest (in close proximity to the point of impact) straddling the centerline facing southwest. The restrained 31 year old female driver of the 2000 Pontiac Grand Prix (case vehicle 1) was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat track adjusted to a mid-to-forward position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks and fabric transfers documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. It should be noted that the vehicle's Event Data Recorder (EDR) reported the driver's belt switch status as "unbuckled". At impact, the driver initiated a forward and slightly lateral trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, knee bolster, and deployed frontal air bag. Indentations and scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation found on the aft reinforcement plate. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. At this point, the driver loaded through the deployed frontal air bag and deformed the upper portion of the steering wheel rim. Complete compression of the column shear capsules was also identified. The brake pedal was bent to the left, and attributed to right lower extremity interaction. The restrained 23 year old male driver of the 2006 Nissan Titan (case vehicle 2) was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat track adjusted to a full rearward position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver initiated a forward and slightly lateral trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, knee bolster, and deployed frontal air bag. Panel fractures and scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation found on the aft reinforcement plate. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the fabric transfers and smudge marks documented across the face of the membrane. No steering column compression or rim deformation was noted. The key was broken off in the ignition. The brake pedal was bent to the right. These contacts were attributed to right lower extremity interaction. Following the crash, both drivers, and restrained 22 year old female front right passenger of Vehicle 1, were transported to a local hospital. Both drivers were subsequently transferred to a trauma center for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. The front right passenger of Vehicle 1's treatment status was unknown. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.