This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted 16 year old male driver of a 2005 Ford F-150 XL 4x4 pickup truck. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal air bag deployed as a result of a narrow offset frontal collision with a large diameter tree (event 2). Vehicle 1 was westbound on a two-lane rural roadway, and negotiating a left curve on a downhill slope. The road was bordered to the north/south by shallow ditches and large wooded areas. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. As Vehicle 1 entered the left curve, the driver allowed the right wheels to depart the right (north) pavement edge. The driver steered left in an attempt to re-enter the road. The vehicle subsequently traversed the travel lanes as additional driver steering input re-directed it back towards the right (north) pavement edge. Vehicle 1 departed the north pavement edge and entered a shallow ravine. The front of Vehicle 1 struck a patch of brush, resulting in minor damage (event 1). The initial impact did not alter the vehicle's trajectory as it continued in a northwesterly direction into a wooded area. At this point, the front left impacted a large diameter tree (event 2). Engagement with the tree extended longitudinally deep into the vehicle's axle and engine compartment, which resulted in severe damage. The vehicle rotated counterclockwise and came to rest in close proximity to the struck tree (off the north pavement edge) facing southeast. The belted 16 year old male driver of the 2005 Ford F-150 pickup was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Impact 1 was minor in nature, and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the driver. At impact 2, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, knee bolster, and deployed frontal air bag. Indentations and scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation noted on the aft reinforcement plate. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. The top portion of the steering wheel rim was deformed, with full compression of the column shear capsules noted. Severe intrusion of frontal components was documented within the driver space. Intrusion of the left toepan and floor pedals suggested driver lower extremity interaction. Following the crash, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. The vehicle was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.