This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 40-year-old male belted driver of a 1999 Ford Econoline (E150) wheelchair-accessible large van. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with a frontal airbag for the driver but this was removed pre-crash. It was also equipped with frontal airbag for the right passenger position that deployed as a result of a rear-end collision with a 2004 Lexus GX470 compact utility vehicle (Vehicle 2). V1 was westbound on the inboard lane of a four-lane divided state highway, proceeding straight on an uphill grade. It was daylight with no adverse weather conditions and the roads were dry. The driver of V1 reported that he was distracted by the sun's glare and did not observe congestive traffic slowing ahead. Upon recognition of the impending harmful event, the driver of V1 braked in avoidance, but the frontal area of V1 impacted the rear area of V2 (Event 1). The impact resulted in moderate damage to V1. This initial impact produced a chain of three additional rear-end events (involving V2 - V5). Pre-impact braking by the driver of V1 allowed the structure above the level of the bumper to engage the undercarriage of V2 (i.e., under-ride configuration). V1 was reported by police to have come to rest in close proximity to the initial point of impact (on the westbound inboard lane) facing west. V2 came to rest on the north shoulder facing northwest. The 40-year-old male belted driver of the 1999 Ford Econoline van was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the aftermarket (captain's chair style) seat properly anchored within the floor-mounted latch system. Seat belt use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver three-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. The driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual seat belt and lower instrument panel area. Scuff and stress marks were identified on the left lower instrument panel, with deformation noted on the aft adaptive controls. A pronounced scuff mark was also documented on the adjacent steering column and attributed to the driver's right lower extremity. The driver (and sole occupant) of V1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. Vehicles 1, 2, and 3 were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage. Vehicles 4 and 5 were driven from the scene.