This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted 45 year old male driver of a 2005 Chevrolet Cavalier 2-door coupe. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a ditch culvert (event 3). Vehicle 1 was westbound on a two-lane rural roadway, following a previous (stabilized) crash envelope east of the crash site. The police reported (overlapping) stabilized minor events involving the vehicle's front surface (mailbox & post, U-channel support post). It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. Vehicle 1 was proceeding straight, as the driver allowed it to depart the right (north) road edge in a forward tracking mode. The vehicle continued in a northwesterly direction and traversed a private yard. The front right area impacted a wooden post, which supported a house number sign (event 1). The post fractured as the upper portion subsequently struck the hood surface (event 2). Events 1 and 2 resulted in minor damage. At this point, the front left area impacted an adjacent ditch culvert, resulting in severe damage (event 3). The final impact resulted in a counterclockwise vehicle rotation to final rest (in a private yard), facing southeast. The belted 45 year old male driver of the 2005 Chevrolet Cavalier was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. It should also be noted that the vehicle's Event Data Recorder (EDR) reported the driver's belt switch circuit status as "buckled". Events 1 and 2 were minor in nature, and probably produced little, if no kinematic response from the occupant. At impact 3, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, knee bolster, and deployed frontal air bag. Indentations and scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation noted on the aft reinforcement frame. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. At this point, the driver loaded through the deployed frontal air bag and deformed the upper portion of the steering wheel rim. Partial compression of the column shear capsules was found. The brake pedal was bent to the right against the intruded toepan; indicative of possible lower extremity engagement. Following the crash, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital for treatment. The driver was subsequently transferred to a nearby trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. The vehicle was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.