This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 27-year-old female unbelted driver of a 2005 Cadillac CTS full size sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions, front (seat back mounted) side airbags, and front/rear curtain airbags. No airbags deployed. The case vehicle sustained severe damage as a result of an offset frontal collision with a 2006 Chevrolet C2500 HD Silverado large pickup truck (Vehicle 2). V1 was westbound on a five-lane asphalt state highway and proceeding straight along the outboard travel lane. The road was level. V2 was eastbound on the same roadway and proceeding straight along the inboard travel lane. The east/westbound travel lanes were divided by a center (left) turn lane. It was daylight with no adverse weather conditions and the road was dry. V1 began to depart the north pavement edge on the right side of the road. Upon recognition of the impending harmful event, the driver of V1 steered left in an attempt to reenter the road. This maneuver redirected V1 back across the travel lanes and into the path of the eastbound V2. The driver of V2 observed V1 encroach into his path of travel and steered right in avoidance into the outboard (eastbound) travel lane. As V1 crossed into this outboard lane, the front left area impacted the front left area of V2 (Event 1). The impact resulted in severe frontal damage to V1. The offset nature of the engagement allowed direct contact to continue longitudinally down the left side surface of V1 (to the bumper corner), resulting in additional moderate damage. Both vehicles rotated counterclockwise and began their respective post-impact trajectories to final rest. V1 came to rest in the center turn lane facing southeast. V2 departed the south pavement edge in a lateral motion, as the right side wheels began digging into the soft soil. This tripping mechanism produced a 2-quarter turn right side rollover ("trip-over"). V2 came to rest on the south shoulder of the highway (on its top), facing northeast. The 27-year-old female unbelted driver of the 2005 Cadillac CTS was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. The lack of belt use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the available driver three-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. In addition, the vehicle's Event Data Recorder (EDR) reported the driver belt switch status as "unbuckled". At impact, the driver initiated a forward and slightly lateral trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the knee bolster. A pronounced scuff mark was identified on the knee bolster, directly under the steering column. No rim deformation was found, but partial compression of the column shear capsules was documented. Although no contact evidence was noted on the left front door panel, disintegration of the tempered window glazing (relative to the kinematic response) suggested partial ejection of the head during the elongated collision sequence. The presence of loose cargo stowed in the rear seat would produce projectiles within the vehicle interior and possibly compound the driver ejection itself. The driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.