This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted 61 year old male driver of a 2008 Toyota Tacoma PreRunner Club Cab 4x2 pickup truck. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions (non-deployed). Vehicle 1 sustained severe right side surface damage as a result of a non-horizontal impact with a split-tree bole. Vehicle 1 was northbound on a two-lane (asphalt) rural roadway, and negotiating a left curve on approach to a hillcrest. It was daylight; with snowy weather conditions as the roads were reportedly covered in patches of ice. Vehicle 1 reached the hillcrest, entered the straightaway, and continued tracking downhill in a northwesterly direction. At this point, the vehicle reportedly broke traction on the ice covered road surface and rotated counterclockwise across the travel lanes. Vehicle 1 subsequently departed the left (west) road edge, and onto the grass shoulder. The adjacent embankment tipped the vehicle to the right, as the right side surface impacted a large split-tree bole. The impact resulted in severe damage to Vehicle 1. Vehicle 1 came to rest against the struck tree, facing southeast. The belted 61 year old male driver of the 2008 Toyota Tacoma was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a full rearward track position. The police reported that the driver was restrained by the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system; however, no conclusive loading marks could be found. At impact, the driver initiated a lateral (and slightly rearward) trajectory in response to the non-horizontal impact force and loaded the manual restraint, center console, and inboard taper of the right front seat back. The forward and rear aspects of the center console were fractured and displaced to the right. The gearshift was also noted to be deformed right, and attributed to right lower extremity engagement. The inboard surface of the right front seat back/head restraint were flattened, with the component fabric found abraded. Extensive intrusion of right sided components deformed the seat backs forward and left, into the driver space. Following the crash, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital. The driver was subsequently transferred to a trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.