This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an 86-year-old female belted front right passenger of a 2005 Dodge Neon SXT intermediate sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of a rear end collision with a 2002 Suzuki XL-7 compact utility vehicle (Vehicle 2). V1 was southbound on the inboard lane of a four-lane interstate highway with a slight downhill grade. V2 was just ahead of V1 in the southbound (inboard) lane and stopped suddenly due to heavy traffic congestion. Vehicle 3 was stopped ahead of V2 and Vehicle 4 was stopped ahead of V3. The frontal area of V1 subsequently impacted the back area of V2 (Event 1). The impact resulted in moderate damage to V1. Possible pre-impact braking and/or height variance between vehicle bumper structures allowed the area above V1's bumper to engage the undercarriage of V2 (i.e., "under-ride"). Following the initial impact, the front of V2 struck V3 (stopped) in the southbound travel lane ahead (Event 2). The front of V3 then impacted the rear of V4 (Event 3). All involved (southbound) vehicles came to rest in their original travel lane in close proximity to the points of impact, facing south. The 86-year-old female belted front right passenger of the 2005 Dodge Neon was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a midtrack position. Seat belt use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available front right three-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. The passenger moved in a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual seat belt, glove compartment door, and deployed frontal airbag. Pronounced scuff marks were identified on the glove compartment door and attributed to passenger lower extremity engagement. Interaction with the deployed passenger frontal airbag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. The 50-year-old female belted driver and 86-year-old female front right belted passenger of V1 were transported to a nearby trauma center. The driver of V1 was treated and released, and the front right passenger was admitted for treatment of moderate injuries sustained in the collision. V1 and V2 were towed due to disabling damage. The other involved vehicles were driven from the crash site.