This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unbelted 41 year old female front right passenger, belted 3 year old female rear center child passenger, and belted 3 year old female rear right child passenger, of a 2004 Mercury Grand Marquis 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an oblique angled collision with a 1996 Chevrolet S-10 Blazer 4-door 4x4 sport utility (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was northbound on a two-lane rural roadway, and negotiating a right curve on approach to a 3-leg intersection. Vehicle 2 was southbound, and negotiating a left curve on approach to the same intersection. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 decelerated, and attempted to turn left (west) across the path of the southbound Chevrolet. As Vehicle 1 crossed the southbound lane, the right side surface was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, both vehicles rotated clockwise and began their respective post-impact trajectories into the southwest sector of the intersection. Vehicle 2 began to travel laterally, as the left side wheels dug into the asphalt pavement. Vehicle 2's center of gravity was subsequently tipped outboard of its wheels. This produced a roll moment, which resulted in a 2-quarter turn left side rollover (event 2). Vehicle 1 departed the west pavement edge as the left rear side surface struck a shallow embankment (event 3), resulting in moderate damage. Vehicle 1 came to rest at the final point of impact facing northeast. Vehicle 2 came to rest (on its top) straddling the west pavement edge, facing northwest. The unbelted 41 year old female front right passenger of the 2004 Mercury Grand Marquis was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a full rearward track position. The lack of restraint use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the available front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. It should also be noted that the passenger's belt webbing was found restricted in the stowed position by lateral component intrusions. The vehicle's Event Data Recorder (EDR) reported the passenger's belt switch circuit status as "unbuckled". At impact, the front right passenger initiated a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 2 o'clock impact force and loaded the right side interior surface. Pronounced indentations and scuff marks were identified on the right front door, which extended rearward to the B-pillar cover panel. These contact points were attributed to the passenger's right lower extremity and pelvic regions. The 3 year old female rear center child passenger of the 2004 Mercury Grand Marquis was restrained within the EvenFlo "Big Kid" High Back booster seat by the vehicle's 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks identified on the rear center 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Further inspection revealed probable erroneous routing of the (vehicle) belt webbing around the child safety seat. The rear center latchplate was placed incorrectly into the rear left buckle, as the (rear center) belt webbing was routed improperly around the high back portion of the child seat shell and armrests. It should be noted that the rear center switchable retractor was found in the emergency locking retractor (ELR) mode. At impact, the rear center child passenger initiated a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 2 o'clock impact force. Improper routing of the vehicle's belt webbing possibly allowed for excessive excursion of the rear center child safety seat into the rear right occupant space (no upper tether straps in use). Stress marks noted on the inboard taper of both (rear) booster safety seats suggested child interaction with the shell component. The 3 year old female rear right child passenger of the 2004 Mercury Grand Marquis was restrained within the EvenFlo "Big Kid" High Back booster seat by the vehicle's 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Restraint use was evidenced by visual inspection of the safety seat in place, relative to the stress marks identified on the plastic shell. Further inspection revealed misuse of the child safety seat and routing of the (vehicle) belt webbing. The rear right latchplate was placed incorrectly into the rear center buckle, as the (rear right) belt webbing was routed improperly around the high back portion of the child seat shell and armrests. It should be noted that the rear right switchable retractor was found in the emergency locking retractor (ELR) mode. At impact, the rear right child passenger initiated a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 2 o'clock impact force and loaded the right interior surface of the high back booster seat. Distinct indentations documented on the right rear door panel indicated child safety seat interaction with this component. Improper routing of the vehicle's belt webbing possibly allowed for excessive excursion of the rear right child safety seat into right side components (no upper tether straps in use). Stress marks noted on the inboard taper of both (rear) booster safety seats also suggested child interaction with the shell component. Following the crash, the unbelted 23 year old female driver, unbelted 41 year old female front right passenger, belted 3-year old female rear center child passenger, and belted 3 year old female rear right child passenger of Vehicle 1, were transported to a local trauma center for treatment. The treatment status of Vehicle 1's driver was unknown. However, the front right and (rear) child passengers of Vehicle 1 were admitted for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.