This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 26-year-old female belted driver of a 2007 Honda Civic intermediate size sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with front outboard seatback-mounted side airbags and front/rear curtain airbags. The left front side airbag and left curtain airbag deployed as a result of a near-side impact with a small diameter tree. The case vehicle was also equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions (non-deployed). V1 was northbound on an asphalt six-lane divided interstate highway and proceeding straight on the inboard travel lane, with a level grade. The north/southbound travel lanes were divided by a cable guardrail and bordered by thick wooded areas. It was daylight with rainy weather conditions; the road was wet. V1 reportedly broke traction on the wet pavement and departed the right (east) pavement edge in a clockwise rotation. V1 subsequently continued down a shallow embankment into a stand of trees. The left side surface impacted a small diameter tree, resulting in moderate damage (Event 1). V1 rebounded clockwise off the tree, struck a patch of brush (Event 2), and came to rest in close proximity to the point of impact (off the east pavement edge of the road) facing northwest. The 26-year-old female belted driver of the 2007 Honda Civic was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-track position. Seat belt use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver three-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. The driver initiated a lateral trajectory in response to the nine o'clock impact force, loading the manual seat belt, left side interior surface, and deployed left front side/left curtain airbags. Multiple indentations and scuff marks were identified on the left front door interior surface. This contact pattern extended from the rear upper to the forward lower quadrants of the door panel and attributed to the driver's left upper/lower extremities. Interaction with the deployed left front side/left curtain airbags were evidenced by the scuff marks and linear (multi-color) fabric transfers documented across the inboard surface of each membrane. The console mounted parking brake and gearshift were noted to be displaced to the right. Intrusion of left-sided components probably produced an entrapment mechanism of the driver's lower extremities between the door, seat cushion, and center console. The driver (and sole occupant) of V1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injuries. V1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.