This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted 81 year old female driver of a 2007 Toyota Yaris 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal air bag deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a ditch (event 1). The case vehicle was also equipped with (seat back mounted) side impact air bags for the front seating positions, and curtain airbags for all outboard seating positions (non-deployed). Vehicle 1 was northbound on a two-lane rural roadway, and negotiating a left curve. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. The road was bordered to the east/west by grass shoulders, shallow ditches, and earthen embankments. The driver allowed the vehicle to depart the right (east) road edge, and continue in a forward tracking mode. Vehicle 1 entered the shoulder as the front left area impacted a ditch, which resulted in moderate damage (event 1). At this point, the vehicle began to traverse (climb) the adjacent embankment as the front right area struck the hillside (event 2). Impact resulted in additional (overlapping) moderate damage. The embankment's super elevation rotated the vehicle (left) about its longitudinal axis. A roll moment was produced as the center of gravity was subsequently tipped outboard of its wheels. This initiated a 4-quarter turn left side rollover ("flip-over"), resulting in minor top damage. Following event 3, Vehicle 1 came to rest upright (on its wheels) on the east shoulder, facing northwest. The belted 81 year old female driver of the 2007 Toyota Yaris was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-forward track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Furthermore, the belt was found restricted in the used/out position by retractor pretensioner deployment. At impact 1, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, and deployed frontal air bag. No indentations or scuff marks were noted on the left knee bolster. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the lipstick transfer identified within the (center) tether stitching. In addition, brown makeup radiated outward from the center stitching into the upper right quadrant of the bag face. Impact 2 compounded the occupant kinematic into frontal components. The driver's kinematic was re-directed to the left in response to the roll moment. However, no contact evidence was attributed to the rollover event. Following the crash, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. The vehicle was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.