This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an 18-year-old male belted driver, a 19-year-old male unbelted rear left passenger, and an 18-year-old unbelted rear center passenger of a 2009 Chevrolet Malibu LT full size sedan (Vehicle 1). The case vehicle was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions, seat back mounted side impact airbags for the front outboard seating positions, and curtain airbags for all outboard seating positions. The left front side airbag and left curtain airbag deployed as a result of an oblique-angled collision with a 1997 Jeep Wrangler Sahara compact utility vehicle (Vehicle 2). V1 was initially stopped and facing east at an urban four-way intersection. V2 was southbound on a multi-lane divided road, proceeding straight. The road was level. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by stop signs for eastbound (turning) vehicles. It was dark; however, the street was lit by overhead lamps. There were no adverse conditions and the roads were dry. V1 entered the intersection and began to turn left (north) across the path of the southbound V2. As V1 crossed the southbound lanes, the left side surface was impacted by the frontal area of V2 (Event 1), which resulted in moderate damage to V1. Both vehicles rotated counterclockwise and began their respective post-impact trajectories to final rest towards the southeast sector of the intersection. V1 came to rest in the northbound (inboard) lane, facing north. V2 came to rest in the southbound (inboard) lane, facing east. The 18-year-old male belted driver of the 2009 Chevrolet Malibu was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Seat belt use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver three-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. It should be noted that the vehicle's Event Data Recorder (EDR) reported the driver's belt switch circuit status as "buckled." The driver moved in a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 9 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual seat belt and left front door panel. Indentations and scuff marks were identified on the left front door interior panel, which extended from the rear upper to the forward lower quadrants. These contacts were attributed to the driver's left upper and lower extremities. Interaction with the deployed left front side airbag and deployed left curtain airbag was evidenced by the localized scuff marks found on the inboard surface of each membrane. The 19-year-old male unbelted rear left passenger of the 2009 Chevrolet Malibu was presumed to be facing forward and seated in an upright posture. The lack of seat belt use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the available rear left three-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. The police report stated that this passenger was not belted. At impact, the rear left passenger moved in a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 9 o'clock impact force and loaded the left rear door panel. Indentations and scuff marks were identified along the interior surface of the left rear door and attributed to upper and lower extremity engagement. Interaction with the deployed left curtain airbag could not be determined due to post-crash rescue contamination. A localized scuff mark was noted on the inboard surface of the membrane, just aft of the left B-pillar area. The 18-year-old male unbelted rear center passenger of the 2009 Chevrolet Malibu was presumed to be facing forward and seated in an upright posture. The lack of seat belt use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the available rear center three-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. The police report stated the passenger was not belted. The rear center passenger moved in a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 9 o'clock impact force. Possible engagement with the aft aspect of the driver seat back was masked by interior component intrusions. Interaction with the deployed left curtain airbag could not be determined due to post-crash rescue contamination. A localized scuff mark was noted on the inboard surface of the membrane, just aft of the left B-pillar area. The 18-year-old male belted driver, 19-year-old male unbelted rear left passenger, 18-year-old male unbelted rear center passenger, and 18-year-old male unbelted rear right passenger of V1 were transported to a local trauma center. The rear left passenger as well as the driver and rear center passenger were admitted and treated for severe injuries. The 18-year-old male rear right passenger was treated and released. The 19-year-old male belted front right passenger of V1 was transported to a local hospital for treatment and released. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.