This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted 52 year old female driver, and belted 47 year old female front right passenger, of a 2009 Ford Escape XLT 4x2 4-door sport utility. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions (deployed), seatback mounted side air bags for the front outboard seating positions (left front deployed), and curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions (left and right side deployed). Vehicle 1's supplemental restraint systems deployed as a result of a multiple impact crash envelope with a 1999 Ford F-450 Super Duty 4x2 chassis cab based utility vehicle (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was southbound on a two-lane rural roadway, on approach to a 4-leg intersection. Vehicle 2 was westbound on a two-lane rural roadway, on approach to the same intersection. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by stop signs for north/southbound vehicles. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 entered the intersection to proceed southbound, across the path of the westbound pickup. As Vehicle 1 crossed the westbound travel lane, the left front side surface was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, Vehicle 1 rotated sharply clockwise as the left rear side surface struck (i.e. "side slapped") the right side surface of Vehicle 2 (event 2). This secondary impact resulted in moderate (overlapping) damage to Vehicle 1. Both vehicles were subsequently re-directed towards the southwest sector of the intersection. Vehicle 1 came to rest on the south shoulder of the road facing northwest. Vehicle 2 departed the south shoulder and entered a shallow ditch. The vehicle's lateral movement onto the ditch slope allowed the right side surface to be tipped outboard of its wheels. This produced a roll moment, initiating a 4-quarter turn right side rollover (i.e. "fall over"). Following the rollover (event 3), Vehicle 2 reportedly came to rest upright (on its wheels) facing northeast. The belted 52 year old female driver of the 2009 Ford Escape was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. It should also be noted that the driver's belt webbing was found restricted in the used/out position by lateral component intrusions. At impact, the driver initiated a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 10 o'clock impact force and loaded the deployed left front side air bag, curtain air bag, and door interior surface. Interaction with the deployed left air bags was evidenced by the localized scuff marks identified on the inboard surface of each membrane. Additional scuff marks and pronounced indentations were found on the forward/lower quadrant of the door interior panel, which extended rearward to the rear upper/lower quadrants. This contact pattern was indicative of left upper/lower extremity interaction. The left aspect of the center console was deformed right, indicative of right lower extremity interaction (e.g. possible "vise" mechanism). The second event further compounded the occupant kinematic into left side components. The belted 47 year old female front right passenger of the 2009 Ford Escape was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a full rearward track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. It should also be noted that the vehicle's Event Data Recorder (EDR) reported the front right passenger's belt switch circuit status as "buckled". At impact, the front right passenger initiated a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 10 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint and center console. The right aspect of the center console was heavily scuffed and displaced to the left. This contact pattern was indicative of left flank and lower extremity interaction. The second event further compounded the occupant kinematic into the center console. Following the crash, the belted 52 year old female driver, and belted 47 year old female front right passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.