This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted 29 year old female front right passenger of a 2009 Nissan Cube. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions (non-deployed). The case vehicle was also equipped with side (seatback mounted) impact air bags for the front outboard seating positions, and curtain airbags for all outboard seating positions. The right front side air bag and right curtain air bag deployed as a result of an oblique angled collision with a 1999 Chevrolet Silverado K2500 4x4 extended cab pickup truck (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was westbound on a multi-lane interstate highway, and proceeding straight on the inboard travel lane. The east/westbound lanes were divided by a concrete barrier. Vehicle 2 was also westbound on the inboard lane, traveling behind Vehicle 1. It was daylight; with rainy weather conditions as the roads were wet. Vehicle 1 broke traction on the wet road surface and entered the center median area in a clockwise rotation. As Vehicle 1 entered the median, the back area impacted a concrete "jersey" barrier (event 1). The impact resulted in moderate vehicle damage, as it was subsequently re-directed back into the westbound (inboard) travel lane. At this point, Vehicle 2 approached from the east. Upon recognition of the impending harmful event, the driver of Vehicle 2 braked and steered right in avoidance of Vehicle 1. As a result of the avoidance maneuver, Vehicle 2 rotated clockwise but remained on the inboard travel lane. The right side surface of Vehicle 1 was struck by the back area of Vehicle 2. The secondary impact resulted in severe damage to Vehicle 1, and re-directed it back into the center median where it came to rest facing southwest. Vehicle 2 came to rest on the inboard (westbound) travel lane, facing northeast. The belted 29 year old female front right passenger of the 2009 Nissan Cube was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. It should also be noted that the passenger's belt webbing was found restricted in the used/out position by lateral component intrusions. At impact, the front right passenger initiated a rearward (and slightly lateral) trajectory in response to the 7 o'clock impact force and loaded the front right seat back and head restraint. The stalks on the (raised) head restraint were found bent slightly rearward. At impact 2, the (out-of-position) passenger kinematic was re-directed to the right in response to the 4 o'clock impact force. Pronounced indentations and scuff marks were identified on the right front door's rear quadrants, which extended into the forward lower quadrants. Interaction with the deployed right front side impact air bag was evidenced by the localized scuff marks identified on the inboard surface of the membrane. No contact evidence was found on the inboard surface of the deployed right curtain air bag. Following the crash, the belted 26 year old male driver, and belted 29 year old female front right passenger of Vehicle 1, was transported to a local trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was reported by medical personnel as uninjured in the crash (released). The front right passenger of Vehicle 1 was admitted for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. The belted 4 year old male rear left child passenger (in a child safety seat), and belted 5 year old female rear right child passenger (in a child safety seat) of Vehicle 1, were not transported to a medical facility and reported by medical personnel as uninjured. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage. Vehicle 2 was reported by police as driven from the scene.