This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unbelted 23 year old female driver of a 2002 Chrysler PT Cruiser. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a 2001 Dodge Durango 4-door 4x4 sport utility (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was southbound on a two-lane rural roadway, on approach to a 3-leg intersection. Vehicle 2 was northbound on the same roadway, and slowing to turn left (west). It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 2 began to turn left at the 3-leg intersection, across the path of the southbound Chrysler. Upon recognition of the impending harmful event, the driver of Vehicle 1 steered right and braked in avoidance (remaining in the southbound lane). As Vehicle 2 crossed the southbound lane, the front right area was impacted by the front left area of Vehicle 1. Impact resulted in moderate damage to both vehicles. At this point, Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were re-directed to the southwest and southeast, respectively. Vehicle 1 departed the west road edge, and came to rest in a grass yard facing southwest. Vehicle 2 came to rest in the northbound travel lane, facing southeast. The unbelted 23 year old female driver of the 2002 Chrysler PT Cruiser was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-track position. The lack of restraint use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, relative to the extent of contacts to frontal components. In addition, the driver belt was found restricted in the stowed position by retractor pretensioner deployment. At impact, the driver initiated a forward (and slightly lateral) trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the knee bolster, and deployed frontal air bag. Indentations and scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster, with a localized contact extending into the steering column. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. The upper and lower portions of the steering wheel rim were deformed, with complete compression of the column shear capsules noted. The driver's kinematic response continued into the left windshield and header area. A localized spider-web fracture pattern was identified on the left upper windshield. The left sunvisor was displaced, the cover fabric abraded, and the retainer clip was found broken. The (intruded) brake pedal was bent to the right, and attributed to right lower extremity interaction. Following the crash, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.