This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted 44 year old female driver of a 2004 Nissan 350Z Roadster. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions (non-deployed). The case vehicle was also equipped with side (seatback mounted) air bags for the outboard seating positions. The left (side) air bag deployed as a result of a near side impact with a wooden utility pole (event 1). Vehicle 1 was northbound on a two-lane urban roadway, and proceeding straight. The road was bordered to the east/west by parking lots and light support poles. It was dark (street lighted by overhead lamps); with rainy weather conditions as the road was wet. Vehicle 1 entered a left curve as the wheels/tires broke traction on the wet road surface. Driver steering maneuvers produced a clockwise rotation as Vehicle 1 departed the right (east) road edge into an adjacent business parking lot. The vehicle's left side surface subsequently impacted a large diameter utility pole, resulting in severe damage (event 1). As the vehicle reached maximum engagement with the struck pole, the supporting guide wire grazed the hood surface. This secondary event resulted in minor (top) damage. Vehicle 1 came to rest against the struck pole facing southeast. The belted 44 year old female driver of the 2004 Nissan 350Z Roadster was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-forward track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. It should be noted that the belt webbing was found restricted in the used/out position by lateral component intrusions. At impact 1, the driver initiated a lateral (and slightly rearward) trajectory in response to the 9 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint and left side interior surface. Localized indentations and scuff marks were identified along the left door's rear upper quadrant, which extended diagonally into the forward lower quadrant. This distinct contact pattern was attributed to the driver's left torso region, extending distally into the pelvic and lower extremity. Interaction with the deployed left (front) side air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented on the inboard surface of the membrane. The center console (to include the parking brake), was found deformed to the right; indicative of right pelvic engagement. The second event was minor in nature, and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the occupant. Following the crash, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. The vehicle was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.