This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unbelted 53 year old female driver of a 2006 Chevrolet Equinox LT 4-door 4x4 sport utility. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of a full frontal collision with a 1996 Chevrolet Lumina 4-door sedan (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was southbound on a two-lane rural roadway, and negotiating a right curve. Vehicle 2 was northbound on the same roadway, and proceeding straight. It was dark; with freezing conditions as the road was reportedly covered with ice. Vehicle 1 reached the apex of the curve as the driver allowed it to cross the centerline, into the path of the northbound Chevrolet. As Vehicle 1 entered the northbound travel lane, the frontal area impacted the frontal area of Vehicle 2. Impact resulted in moderate damage to each vehicle. At this point, both vehicles rebounded to final rest in the northbound lane, facing southeast and northwest, respectively. The unbelted 53 year old female driver of the 2006 Chevrolet Equinox was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-forward track position. The lack of restraint use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, relative to the extent of contacts to frontal components. It should be noted that the vehicle's Event Data Recorder (EDR) reported the driver's belt switch circuit status as "unbuckled". At impact, the driver initiated a forward (and slightly lateral) trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the knee bolster, and deployed frontal air bag. Indentations and scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation noted on the aft reinforcement frame. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the fabric transfer and scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. The upper and lower portions of the steering wheel rim were deformed, with partial compression of the column shear capsules found. A localized spider-web fracture pattern was identified on the left upper windshield, and attributed to possible driver (left) hand contact. Following the crash, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.