This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 12-year-old male belted front right passenger and a 3-year-old male belted second row right passenger of a 2004 Acura MDX large utility vehicle. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a large diameter tree (Event 1). The left front (seat back mounted) side airbag and left curtain airbag also deployed as a result of a secondary impact with a large diameter tree (Event 2). V1 was northbound on an asphalt four-lane divided interstate highway, negotiating a (slight) right curve along the outboard travel lane. There was a minimal downhill grade for Vehicle 1. The north/southbound travel lanes were divided and bordered by large wooded areas. It was dark and the road was not lighted by overhead lamps. There were no adverse weather conditions and the roads were dry. The driver of V1 (reportedly) abruptly changed lanes to the left in avoidance of a slower non-contact vehicle ahead. The steering maneuver redirected V1 towards the left (west) shoulder and into the center median. V1 subsequently entered a wooded area as the front left area impacted a large diameter tree (Event 1). The impact resulted in severe damage. V1 then traversed a shallow creek bed ravine causing the vehicle to pitch left. The left side surface struck a second tree in a non-horizontal orientation, which resulted in moderate damage (Event 2). V1 came to rest (upright) within the median, facing southeast. The 12-year-old male belted front right passenger of the 2004 Acura MDX was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Seat belt use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available three-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. The front right passenger moved in a forward and left trajectory in response to the 11 o'clock impact force. He loaded the manual seat belt, glove compartment door, knee bolster, and deployed passenger airbag. Multiple indentations and scuff marks were identified on the glove compartment door and knee bolster. Interaction with the deployed front right passenger airbag was evidenced by the localized scuff marks documented on the mid and lower aspects of the membrane face. The secondary impact redirected the occupant kinematic to the left in response to the non-horizontal impact force. No contact evidence was attributed to this event. The 3-year-old male belted second row right passenger of the 2004 Acura MDX was presumed to be seated in an upright and forward posture. This child was reported to be seated on a full back booster seat. Seat belt use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available three-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact the child passenger moved in a forward and left trajectory in response to the 11 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual seat belt and rear aspect of the right front seat back. Localized indentations were identified on the mid and lower aspects of the right front seat back. This contact pattern was attributed to the occupant's right upper and lower extremities. The secondary impact redirected the occupant kinematic to the left in response to the non-horizontal impact force. No contact evidence was attributed to this event. The 33-year-old male belted driver, 12-year-old male front right belted passenger, 10-year-old male second row center belted passenger, a 3-year-old male belted (within a child safety seat) second row right passenger, and an 8-year-old male third row right unbelted passenger of V1 were transported to a local trauma center. The driver of V1 was treated and released. The 2 case occupants which were the 12-year-old male front right passenger, treated for serious injuries and the 3-year-old male second row right passenger, treated for moderate injuries were both admitted. The second row center and third row right child passengers were reported by medical personnel as uninjured. V1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.