This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted 59 year old female driver of a 2003 Ford Ranger 4x2 pickup truck. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a 2005 Toyota Matrix 4-door hatchback (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was northbound on a two-lane rural roadway, and just exited a left curve into the straightaway. Vehicle 2 was southbound on the same roadway, and exited a right curve into the straightaway. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. As Vehicle 2 exited the curve, the driver allowed it to cross the centerline, into the path of the northbound Ford. As Vehicle 2 crossed the northbound lane, the front left area impacted the front left area of Vehicle 1 (event 1). Impact resulted in severe damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, both vehicles rotated counterclockwise and began their respective post-impact trajectories to final rest. Vehicle 1 rebounded and departed the east pavement edge into a private yard. As Vehicle 1 departed the east pavement edge, the back area struck a mailbox post (event 2). Impact resulted in minor damage. Vehicle 1 came to rest off the east pavement edge facing northwest. Vehicle 2 departed the west pavement edge, and came to rest straddling the west fog line, facing northeast. The belted 59 year old female driver of the 2003 Ford Ranger was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact 1, the driver initiated a forward (and slightly lateral) trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, knee bolster, and deployed frontal air bag. Pronounced scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. Impact 2 was minor in nature, and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the occupant. Following the crash, the belted 59 year old female driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a nearby trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.