This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 41-year-old female belted driver of a 2008 Hyundai Tiburon subcompact hatchback. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal and side airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal airbag deployed as a result of an oblique angled collision with a 1989 Chevrolet G20 large Van (Vehicle 2). V1 was westbound on a two-lane rural (level/asphalt) roadway, entering a right curve . V2 was eastbound on the same roadway, negotiating a left curve. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions, the road was dry. The driver allowed V2 to depart the right (south) pavement edge onto the grass shoulder. The driver of V2 steered left in an attempt to re-enter the road. This maneuver initiated a counterclockwise rotation as V2 subsequently traversed the travel lanes, across the path of the westbound Hyundai. As V2 crossed the westbound lane the front right area was impacted by the frontal area of V1 (event 1). This impact resulted in severe damage to V1. V2 rotated clockwise and began to travel laterally onto the (north) gravel shoulder. The combination of post-impact V2 rotation and lateral motion against the soft surface produced a roll over. This mechanism initiated a four-quarter turn left side rollover (event 2). The initial impact re-directed V1 towards the northeast and across the path of Vehicle 3, a 2002 Chevrolet Tahoe large utility vehicle, was also westbound and traveling behind V1. As V1 was re-directed rearward, the left rear side surface was struck (i.e. "sideswiped") by the right side surface of V3 (event 3). This impact resulted in minor damage to V1. V2 continued its rollover trajectory in a northeasterly direction and impacted a building (event 4). V1 came to rest in close proximity to the final point of impact (in the westbound lane), facing southwest. V2 came to rest (partially inside the building) off the north pavement edge facing southeast. V3 was driven to final rest onto the south shoulder facing southwest. The 41-year-old female belted driver of the 2008 Hyundai Tiburon was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat track approximated to be at a mid-to-forward position. Seat belt use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver three-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At event 1, the driver initiated a forward and slightly lateral trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual seat belt, knee bolster, and deployed frontal airbag. Indentations and scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation noted on the aft reinforcement frame. A localized scuff mark was documented on the lower aspect of the steering column, indicative of right thigh contact. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the scuff marks and makeup transfers identified across the face of the membrane. It should be noted that the rear aspect of the driver airbag was torn from (intruded) windshield/hood engagement. The right portion of the steering wheel rim was deformed, with partial compression of the column shear capsules found. The center console (and parking brake) was displaced to the right and attributed to right lower extremity contact. Event 3 was minor in nature and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the occupant. The driver (and sole occupant) of V1 was transported to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injuries. V1 and 2 were towed due to disabling damage, V3 was driven from the crash site.