This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unbelted 17 year old female driver (case occupant 1), and unbelted 18 year old female rear center passenger (case occupant 2), of a 2008 Chevrolet Cobalt LT 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of a narrow offset frontal collision with a large diameter tree (event 1). Vehicle 1 was eastbound on a two-lane urban roadway, and negotiating a left curve on a downhill slope. It was dark (street lighted by overhead lamps); with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. Vehicle 1 entered a sag area as the driver allowed it to continue in an easterly direction, towards the right (south) pavement edge. Vehicle 1 departed the road in a forward tracking mode, and subsequently penetrated a wooded area. The front right impacted a large diameter tree (event 1). The tree was sheared, as engagement extended longitudinally down the vehicle's right side surface, into the front axle area. Impact resulted in moderate damage. Vehicle 1 rotated sharply clockwise as the front left struck an adjacent, small diameter tree (event 2). Impact resulted in moderate (overlapping) damage. At this point, rotation off the first struck tree tipped the vehicle's center of gravity outboard of its wheels. This produced a roll moment, and initiated a 5-quarter turn left side rollover ("bounce-over"). The rollover event (event 3) resulted in severe top damage. During the arrested rollover, the left rear side surface impacted a third, large diameter tree (event 4). The fourth and final impact resulted in severe non-horizontal damage. Vehicle 1 came to rest on its left side, in close proximity to the struck trees (off the south pavement edge) facing southeast. The unbelted 17 year old female driver (case occupant 1) of the 2008 Chevrolet Cobalt was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-forward track position. The lack of restraint use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. It should also be noted that the vehicle's Event Data Recorder (EDR) reported the driver's belt switch circuit status as "unbuckled". At impact 1, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the deployed frontal air bag. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. Although no steering wheel rim deformation was found, partial compression of the column shear capsules was identified. The secondary tree impact compounded the driver's kinematic response into frontal components. At impact 3, the (out-of-position) driver's kinematic was re-directed to the left in response to the roll moment. A localized area of abraded fabric was documented on the roof headliner, just above the driver space. This contact evidence was attributed to the rollover event. The unbelted 18 year old female rear center passenger (case occupant 2) of the 2008 Chevrolet Cobalt was presumed to be seated faced forward in an upright posture. The lack of restraint use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the available rear center 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact 1, the rear center passenger initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force. Deformation was identified on the rear aspect of the front seat backs, and attributed to (unspecified) rear seated occupant interaction. The secondary tree impact compounded the passenger's kinematic response into frontal components. At impact 3, the (out-of-position) passenger kinematic was re-directed to the left in response to the roll moment. A pronounced and concentrated area of hair strands and abraded fabric was documented on the roof headliner, just above the rear right occupant space. This contact evidence was attributed to the rollover event. Following the crash, the unbelted 17 year old female driver, belted 16 year old female front right passenger, unbelted 16 year old male rear left passenger, unbelted 18 year old female rear center passenger, and unbelted 15 year old male rear right passenger of Vehicle 1, were transported to a local trauma center. The driver, rear center passenger, and rear right passenger, were admitted for treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. The front right passenger, and rear left passenger of Vehicle 1, were treated and released. The vehicle was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.