This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted 12 year old male rear left child passenger of a 2001 Mazda Tribute DX 4-door 4x4 sport utility. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with an embankment (event 1). Vehicle 1 was westbound on a two-lane rural roadway, and proceeding straight. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 reached a hillcrest and continued westbound on a down slope. At this point, the driver allowed Vehicle 1 to cross the centerline, and travel towards the left (south) pavement edge. Vehicle 1 departed the south pavement edge, as the front left area subsequently impacted the back slope of a ditch (event 1). Impact resulted in moderate damage. Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise and began to travel laterally in a westerly direction up and over the earthen embankment. A roll moment was produced as the vehicle's center of gravity was tipped outboard of its wheels. This initiated a 5-quarter turn right side rollover ("bounce-over"), which resulted in severe top damage. During the rollover sequence (event 2), the vehicle's top surface struck a U-channel post supporting a road sign (event 3), resulting in minor damage. Vehicle 1 came to rest (on its right side) on the south shoulder facing southeast. It should be noted that the driver of Vehicle 1 was ejected during the rollover. Interior contact evidence indicated the ejection port was through the (disintegrated) left front window opening. The driver came to rest southwest of the vehicle's final rest position, also on the south shoulder. The belted 12 year old male rear left child passenger of the 2001 Mazda Tribute was presumed to be faced forward, and seated in an upright posture. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available rear left 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact 1, the child passenger initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint. Localized indentations were identified on the aft aspect of the driver seat back, indicative of possible extremity interaction. At impact 2, the passenger kinematic was re-directed to the right in response to the roll moment. However, no contact evidence documented was attributed to the second and third events. Following the crash, the unbelted 33 year old female driver, belted 12 year old male rear left child passenger, and belted 7 year old female rear right child passenger of Vehicle 1, were transported to a local trauma center. The driver and rear left child passenger were admitted for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. The rear right child passenger was treated and released. The vehicle was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.