This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 66-year-old female belted driver of a 2005 Mazda Tribute DX compact utility vehicle. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions (non-deployed). The case vehicle sustained moderate left side damage as a result of an oblique angle collision with a 1993 Ford Explorer XL compact utility vehicle (Vehicle 2). V1 was initially stopped and facing south at a 4-way rural intersection, the road was downhill. V2 was westbound on a two-lane rural road, on approach to the same intersection. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by stop signs for north/southbound vehicles. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions, the roads were dry. V1 proceeded into the intersection in an attempt to turn left (east), across the path of the westbound Ford. As V1 entered the intersection, the left side surface was impacted by the frontal area of V2. The impact resulted in moderate damage to V1. Both vehicles were redirected into the southwest sector of the intersection. V1 was reported by police to have come to rest on the south shoulder facing east. V2 reportedly came to rest straddling the centerline of the east/westbound lanes, facing southwest. The 67-year-old female belted driver of the 2005 Mazda Tribute was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat track adjusted to a mid-to-rear position. Seat belt use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver three-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. The driver belt was found restricted in the used/out position by B-pillar intrusion against the lower retractor assembly. The driver initiated a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 9 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual seat belt, door panel, and B-pillar. Multiple indentations and scuff marks were identified on the left front door panel. These pronounced contact points were attributed to the driver's left pelvic and lower extremity regions. A scratch mark was noted on the left B-pillar, which suggested possible (right) shoulder/torso interaction. Additional contact evidence found on the center console indicated a possible "vise" mechanism between inboard and outboard interior components. Front right passenger loading of the center console during the crash kinematic response was identified as a probable contributing factor to this "vise" mechanism. The driver of V1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. The 18-year-old female front right passenger, 21-year-old male rear left belted passenger, and 17-year-old male rear right passenger were reported by police to have sustained minor injuries. The non-case passengers of V1 were not transported to a medical facility. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.