This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted 16 year old female driver of a 2003 Mini Cooper 2-door hatchback. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), seat back-mounted side air bags (for the front outboard seating positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The frontal air bags, left front side air bag, and left curtain air bag were non-deployed. The right front side air bag, and right curtain air bag deployed as a result of an oblique angled collision with a 2005 Dodge grand Caravan (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was southbound on a two-lane rural roadway, and negotiating a right curve. Vehicle 2 was northbound on the same roadway, and also negotiating a right curve. It was dark; with rainy weather conditions as the road was wet. Vehicle 1 crested a hill, and reportedly departed the right (west) pavement edge; as subsequent driver steering maneuvers re-directed the vehicle back into the travel lanes. Vehicle 1 traversed the travel lanes in a counterclockwise rotation, and across the path of the northbound Dodge. As Vehicle 1 entered the northbound travel lane, the right side surface was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2. The impact resulted in severe damage to Vehicle 1. Both vehicles were re-directed towards the northeast, and onto the east shoulder. Each vehicle came to rest on the east shoulder of the road, facing northeast. The belted 16 year old female driver of the 2003 Mini Cooper was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-forward track position. Restraint usage was evidenced by the loading marks and fabric transfers documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver initiated a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 3 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, center console, and right door interior surface. The forward and mid aspects of the center console were fractured and displaced to the right. The parking brake and gearshift were also noted to be deformed right, and attributed to right lower extremity engagement. Pronounced indentations/scuff marks were identified on the right door panel, just above and below the level of the door handle. A localized fracture was documented on the right door handle, with skin tissue embedded into the (forward) anchor posts. The inboard taper of the front right seat back/cushion were deformed right from driver engagement, and also deformed left from interior component intrusions. It should be noted that no contact evidence was identified on the deployed right front side air bag, nor right curtain air bag. Following the crash, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.