This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted, 37-year old, male driver with a deployed air bag (v1) and a belted, 20-year old, female driver with a deployed airbag (v2). The 37-year old male driver of v1 sustained severe injuries in an offset frontal crash with v2. The 20-year old female driver of v2 sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred in the early morning, daylight hours on a wet roadway in the rain. A 2007 Chevrolet Colorado pickup truck (v1) was negotiating a right curve on a mountainous, rural, bituminous, three-lane, two-way roadway heading south. There was a 7% uphill grade for the southbound lanes. A 2001 Toyota RAV4 utility vehicle (v2) was traveling north in the other direction of the same roadway. There was a 7% downhill grade in the northbound direction. As v1 negotiated the right curve, it traveled across the centerline and into the oncoming lane. V2 steered right and braked in avoidance but the two vehicles collided head-on. The impact occurred partially on the roadway and northbound paved shoulder. The front of v1 initially contacted the front left half plane of v2. V1's front then engaged the left plane of v2 in a continuous impact event. V1 rotated 480 degrees counter-clockwise before coming to rest southwest of the point of impact on the other side of the roadway. V2 rotated counter-clockwise 300 degrees before coming to rest on the shoulder north of impact. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. V1 was driven by a 37-year old male case occupant. He was restrained by a lap and shoulder belt and a deployed steering wheel airbag. Actuation of the available pretensioner was unknown due to the belt being cut by EMS. The vehicle was not equipped with side airbags. He was transported to a local trauma center by ground ambulance where he was diagnosed with severe injuries. V2 was driven by a 20-year old female case occupant. She was restrained by a lap and shoulder belt, an actuated retractor pretensioner, and a deployed steering wheel airbag. The vehicle was not equipped with side airbags. She was transported to a local trauma center by ground ambulance where she was diagnosed with serious injuries.