This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 36-year-old female belted driver with deployed airbags and a 58-year-old female second row left belted passenger with deployed airbags. The injuries were serious for both the driver and second row left passenger. Other occupants included a 58-year-old male right front belted passenger with deployed airbags, a 7-year-old male second row right belted passenger with no airbag deployment, and a 10-year-old male third row center belted passenger with no airbag deployment. The other occupants were reported with minor injuries. The subject vehicle was a minivan involved in a head-on collision with a large pickup truck. The crash occurred early evening at dusk in clear weather on a dry road. The road was not lighted. A 2012 Honda Odyssey minivan (Vehicle 1) was proceeding straight on a two-way, two-lane rural bituminous road heading southeast. There was a 7% downhill grade for this vehicle. A 1983 Chevrolet K10 large pickup truck (Vehicle 2) was traveling northwest on the same road negotiating a left curve with +8% superelevation. V2 crossed the center line as it negotiated the left curve. V2 swerved right to avoid a non-contact vehicle before subsequently crossing left again into the oncoming lane of traffic. V2 and V1 collided head-on (Event 1). V2 subsequently rotated counterclockwise around the left front fender and door of V1 coming to rest in the road, after rotating 180 degrees. V1 was pushed off the road to the right due to the extended impact engagement of V2. The right rear quarter panel of V1 then impacted an embankment (Event 2). V1 came to rest on the roadside against the embankment and experienced a minor engine fire (Event 3). Both vehicles were towed due to damage. V1 was driven by a 36-year-old female case occupant. The driver was using the available lap and shoulder belt with actuated retractor pretensioner. Her steering wheel hub, left curtain, and left seatback airbags deployed. The driver suffered serious injuries and was transported by ground ambulance to a local trauma center. V1 was also occupied by a 58-year-old female second row left case occupant. She was using the available lap and shoulder belt and was protected by the deployed left curtain airbag. She was also transported to a local trauma center by ground ambulance with serious injuries. Non-case occupants included a 58-year-old male right front belted passenger with deployed airbags, a 7-year-old male second row right belted passenger with no airbag deployment, and a 10-year-old male third row center belted passenger with no airbag deployment. The other occupants were reported with minor injuries and transported to a local hospital by ground ambulance. The right curtain and right front seatback airbags were not deployed in this crash.