This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unbelted, 54-year-old, male driver with deployed airbags and a belted, 58-year-old, female, right front passenger with deployed airbags. The injuries were serious for both the driver and right front passenger. There was also an unbelted, 25-year-old, male, right rear passenger. This 5-door hatchback vehicle was involved in a head-on collision with a midsized, crossover utility vehicle. The crash occurred mid-morning in clear weather on an icy roadway. A 2004 Toyota Matrix 5-door hatchback (V1) was proceeding straight on a suburban, bituminous, two-way, four-lane roadway heading north. There was a 5% downhill grade in the northbound direction of travel. A 2005 Nissan Murano crossover utility vehicle (V2) was traveling south on the same roadway. V1 lost control as a result of the poor road conditions and traveled left into the oncoming lane of traffic. The two vehicles collided head-on. V1 subsequently rotated counter-clockwise 160 degrees, coming to rest in the roadway. V2 traveled a short distance east before coming to rest on the right side of the roadway. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. V1 was driven by a 54-year-old male case occupant and occupied by a 58-year-old female right front case occupant as well as a 25-year-old male right rear occupant. The driver was not using the available lap and shoulder belt with actuated retractor pretensioner. His steering wheel hub airbag deployed. The right front seat occupant was restrained by a lap and shoulder belt with actuated retractor pretensioner and a deployed top instrument panel airbag. The right rear occupant was unrestrained. This vehicle was not equipped with any side airbags. All three occupants were transported to a local hospital by ground ambulance. The driver and right front passenger were later transferred to a local trauma center by ground ambulance with serious injuries. V2 was driven by a 38-year-old male non-case occupant. He was reported with possible injuries and no transport from the scene to a medical facility.