This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unbelted 61-year-old female right front passenger with a non-deployed front airbag. At the time of the crash, the case occupant was 163 cm (5' 4") and weighed 57 kg (126 lbs). This occupant was riding in a 2010 Chevrolet Malibu sedan when it was involved in a moderate severity offset frontal impact to a rocky embankment, followed by a rollover. The principal direction of force in the frontal impact was zero degrees with no shift. This right front occupant was transported to a trauma center where she was treated for critical injuries that she later succumbed to. Upon impact, the unbelted case occupant moved forward and up in relation to the vehicle, as evidenced by knee contact to the glove box door and head contact to the roof side rail. During the subsequent rollover the occupant moved up in relation to the vehicle, as evidenced by hair transfers to the right roof side rail. The case occupant sustained bilateral facial lacerations due to probable head contact with the front header or possible contact to the right A-pillar in the frontal event. A subarachnoid hemorrhage with tonsillar herniation and a C2 vertebral body and left facet fracture were incurred due to one of two ICS's. In the first ICS there was probable head contact to the front header or possible contact to the right A-pillar during the frontal event in a probable scenario. In the second ICS, there was probable head contact to the right roof side rail or possible contact to the roof during the rollover event in a possible scenario. Right rib fractures five, six, and eight, left rib fractures five through nine, a grade II liver laceration, bilateral pulmonary contusions and lacerations, a right pneumothorax, and a hemomediastinum were sustained due to probable chest and abdomen contact with the right instrument panel in the frontal event in a probable scenario. It was determined that the non-deployment of the available right instrument panel airbag contributed or was responsible for the severity of these injuries. The case occupant suffered a left kidney laceration due to an unknown source.