This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 61 year old male driver of a 2008 Honda Civic LX 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions, curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions, and side air bags for the front outboard seating positions. The driver frontal air bag deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a large diameter tree. The left curtain and side air bag also deployed (deployment sequence undetermined). Vehicle 1 was southbound on a five-lane urban roadway, and negotiating a right curve. The north/southbound travel lanes were divided by a center turn lane, and bordered by tree clusters. It was dark (street not lighted); with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. The southbound vehicle was (reportedly) initially stopped in the center turn lane. Vehicle 1 accelerated in a southeasterly direction. As Vehicle 1 reached the apex of the curve, it continued in a forward tracking mode towards the left (east) pavement edge. The vehicle traversed the travel lanes and departed the east pavement edge. The front left area subsequently impacted a large diameter tree, which resulted in severe damage. Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise, and came to rest in close proximity to the struck tree (off the east pavement edge of the road) facing southeast. The restrained 61 year old male driver of the 2008 Honda Civic LX was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a full rearward position. Restraint use was confirmed by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. In addition, the belt was found restricted in the used (out) position by retractor pretensioner deployment. Compression of the redundant driver buckle pretensioner was also noted. At impact, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, knee bolster, and deployed frontal air bag. Scuff marks and panel displacement were identified on the left knee bolster. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. The forward aspect of the center console was dented, scuffed, and deformed to the right. Damage to the center console was attributed to right lower extremity interaction. The floor pedals were bent to the right, indicative of foot/ankle interaction. At this point, the driver loaded through the deployed frontal air bag and (lightly) deformed the upper and lower portions of the steering wheel rim. Complete compression of the column shear capsules was also noted. The driver continued the kinematic response into the left sunvisor and mid-windshield. The sunvisor was deformed and displaced forward, with a broken retainer clip identified. A localized spider-web fracture pattern was documented on the mid-windshield, adjacent to the sunvisor damage. The windshield was displaced outward, as skin tissue surrounded the contact site. Loose cargo (and spare tire) stowed in the trunk deformed the rear seat back; however, no seat back separation or penetration of trunk contents was found. Following the crash, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital. The driver was subsequently transferred to a trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.