Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 35-year old, male driver, of a 2006 Infiniti M35x 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a frontal collision with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the post mid-night hours (dark, street light present) of a late summer weekend, on a short, divided trafficway, within a residential area. This north/south trafficway forms the main entrance to a residential area, as well as the southern leg of an intersection. The north/south travel lanes are separated by a wide grass and tree filled median and has a negative downhill grade for the southbound direction. Both travel lanes are relatively straight, but curve back together at the southern termination of the median. The speed limit for this residential trafficway is 25 mph (40 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2006 Infiniti M35x 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 35-year old male driver (case occupant) and sole occupant, in the southbound roadway, approaching the termination of the trafficway/median area. The case occupant was noted to be unbelted, but the vehicle was equipped with advanced frontal air bags, front, seat back mounted side air bags and side rail curtains. Crash: While attempting to negotiate the curved area of the transition area (a slight left turning curve, then a slight right turning curve), Vehicle 1 passed just south of the median tip, but continued traveling in a southeasterly direction. Vehicle 1 crossed over the northbound travel lane and departed the eastside of the roadway where it subsequently struck a tree with its frontal plane. Vehicle 1 pivoted slightly clockwise and came to rest facing a southerly direction. As a result of its impact with the tree, the driver's advanced frontal air bag deployed. It should be noted that Vehicle 1 exhibited sideswipe type damage to its right side plane, suggesting that Vehicle 1 was involved in a prior minor impact, but not necessarily related to the crash scenario (time/location) described above. It should also be noted that the right, side impact air bags (hip/torso and curtain bags) were deployed, but it could not be determined if these deployed upon impact with the tree or during the previous unknown sideswipe type event. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was transported from the scene, by a land unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.