Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 26-year old, female driver, of a 2004 Toyota Celica 2-door lift-back, which was involved in a frontal impact with the rear plane of a 2005 Volvo XC90 compact utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the late afternoon hours (daylight), of a winter weekday, on a two-lane, east/west roadway, at the area of an intersection. The east/west roadway has a negative grade for the eastbound travel direction, as it approaches the intersection from the west. A north/south residential roadway intersects the east/west roadway on the north side, forming a "T-type" intersection. The east/west roadway has a speed limit of 45 mph (72 km/h). At time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2004 Toyota Celica 2-door lift-back, was being operated by the 26-year old female driver (case occupant), in the eastbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the west. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling east. She was not utilizing an available 3-point lap/shoulder belt, but the vehicle is noted to be equipped with redesigned frontal impact air bags. Vehicle 2, a 2005 Volvo XC90 compact utility vehicle, was stopped at the intersection, in the eastbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to turn left and continue traveling northbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 approached from the west, the driver of Vehicle 1 became aware of Vehicle 2 stopped in the travel lane. Based upon vehicle damage, the driver of Vehicle 1 appears to have moved to the right, but was unsuccessful in avoiding Vehicle 2. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 (front left) struck and under rode the rear plane of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Vehicle 2 continued forward and came to rest at the south side of the roadway within the paved shoulder area. Vehicle 2 is believed to have come to rest in the intersection after being pushed forward and to the left. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed. Post-Crash: Responding fire/rescue personnel removed Vehicle 1's roof structure and driver's side door. The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was removed from the vehicle and subsequently transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver and two passengers of Vehicle 2 were reported to be uninjured. However, both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.