Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 58-year old, female driver, of a 2011 Mitsubishi Eclipse convertible, who was primarily involved in a near side collision with the frontal plane of a 1998 Van Hool bus. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the late afternoon hours (daylight), of a summer weekday, on a straight, four-lane roadway. This roadway is the southbound travel direction of a limited access, north/south trafficway. At the area of the crash, the roadway has an uphill grade just prior to the beginning of an interchange area (off ramp). The speed limit for this southbound roadway is 65 mph (105 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear, but the roadway surface was reported to be wet. Vehicle 1, a 2011 Mitsubishi Eclipse convertible, was stopped on the western paved shoulder area, of the southbound roadway. The driver, the 58-year old female case occupant, intended to enter the travel lanes and continue traveling south. She was utilizing her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags and front, seat back mounted, head/torso side air bags. Vehicle 2, a 1998 Van Hool bus, was traveling southbound, in the second from the right travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling south. Crash: Vehicle 1 started to accelerate from a stopped position and entered the southbound roadway from the right. Vehicle 1 apparently entered the right southbound travel lane and continued to move left (changing lanes). Vehicle 1 entered the second from the right southbound lane as Vehicle 2 approached from the north. At this time, Vehicle 1's left side plane contacted Vehicle 2's right side plane causing Vehicle 1 to pivot/rotate counterclockwise about the right front corner area of Vehicle 2. At this time the front right of Vehicle 2 engaged the left side plane of Vehicle 1. Vehicle 1 was eventually deflected to the right of Vehicle 2 and spun off the western edge of the roadway, where it came to rest facing an unknown travel direction. Vehicle 2 eventually came to a stop, but at unknown location some distance south of the impact area. As a result this crash, the driver's head/torso side impact air bag (seat back mounted) deployed for Vehicle 1. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was transported to a local hospital with non-incapacitating injuries. The extent of his injuries and treatments, if any, are unknown. Both involved vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.