This 88-year old female case occupant was the right front passenger of a 2008 Chevrolet Cobalt 2-door coupe, which was involved in a moderate, near side impact with the frontal plane of a Dodge Durango utility vehicle. She was utilizing her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and a roof rail side curtain was present (deployed). She was sitting in an upright position with her bucket seat adjusted to the mid-to-forward seat track position. At the time of the crash, the case occupant was 61 in (155 cm) in height and weighed 114 lbs (52 kg). During the main side impact, the case occupant was projected mostly right and very slightly forward in reference to the vehicle, as the door panel intruded inward. Based upon injuries, her head contacted the deployed side curtain with the frontal plane of the striking vehicle reinforcing from the exterior side, while her right shoulder, chest and hip contacted the door panel. Due to the lateral nature of the impact, the case occupant's left hip may have been compressed between the door panel and the center console and she may have also been contacted by the unbelted driver as they moved right, but no significant injuries were attributed to this potential occupant to occupant contact. The case occupant came to rest in her respective seating area where she was found. The case occupant's injuries include: a right subdural hematoma, bilateral cerebral contusion, a right intraventricular hemorrhage, a right subarachnoid hemorrhage and a right periorbital contusion, all the result of probable contact with the deployed side curtain being reinforced by the frontal plane of the striking vehicle. The case occupant also sustained a right clavicle fracture, bilateral rib fractures (R1-9, L3-7), a central sternum fracture, a right pulmonary contusion, a left pneumothorax, bilateral sacrum fractures, bilateral pubic rami fractures, a right L5 transverse process fracture and a right acetabulum fracture, all of which are the certain result of contact with the different vertical areas of the door panel, with the exception that the bilateral sacral fractures and the bilateral pubic rami fractures could possibly be the result of compression with the door panel and the center console. Other injuries included: a central chest contusion (certain contact with the seat belt webbing), a left elbow contusion and abrasion (possible contact with the driver), a right shoulder contusion (probable contact with the seat belt webbing), a right forearm contusion (probable contact with the door panel), a right elbow contusion (probable contact with the door panel) and a minor left hand laceration (unknown contact source). The maximum Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS) for this case occupant was AIS 4.