Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 53-year old, male driver, of a 2003 Subaru Forester, which was involved in a near side impact with the frontal plane of a 2007 Ford Escape. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hour (dark, street lights present), of a spring weekday, at the intersection of a five lane, north/south roadway and a east/west roadway. Both the south and north sides of the intersection are composed of two travel lanes in each direction with a dedicated left turn lane. The western leg of the intersection is composed of one westbound lane separated from two eastbound lanes by a raised concrete median. The eastern leg of the intersection did not play a part in the crash. Entrance into and through the intersection is controlled by overhead, tri-colored electric traffic signals. The speed limit for the north/south roadway is 35 mph (56 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was reported to be dry. Vehicle 1, the 2003 Subaru Forester, was being operated by the 53-year old male driver (case occupant), in the right southbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the north. He intended to continue traveling south. The driver of Vehicle 1 was utilizing an available 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle was noted to be equipped with frontal impact air bags and front outboard torso/head side bags. Vehicle 2, a 2007 Ford Escape, was in the left turn lane of the southern leg of the intersection. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling west. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1). Vehicle 2 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest near the raised concrete median, at the western leg of the intersection, facing a westerly direction. After impact, Vehicle 1 continued south, beyond the intersection, before coming to rest at the west roadside edge. As a result of the impact, the driver's torso/head side air bag deployed for Vehicle 1. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was found outside of the vehicle, sitting or laying down at the west roadside (self extricated). He was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred to a local trauma center and hospitalized with a serious injury. The driver and passenger of Vehicle 2 were reported to be uninjured. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.