Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 35-year old, male driver, of a 2009 Nissan Maxima 4-door sedan, which was involved in a series of wheel impacts with a curb and a front narrow corner impact with a pole. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the post midnight hours (dark, but street lights present), of a spring weekday, on a four-lane, concrete, roadway. This curved roadway runs generally north and south and is composed of two northbound lanes and two southbound lanes. For the northbound travel direction, the roadway significantly curves from right to left. The roadway is level and has a speed limit of 35 mph (56 km/h). The overall environment is urban. At time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was reportedly wet. Vehicle 1, the 2009 Nissan Maxima 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 35-year old male driver (case occupant), in the right, northbound travel lane. He intended to negotiate the left turning curve and continue traveling north. He was not utilizing an available 3-point lap/shoulder belt, but the vehicle was noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, hip/torso side air bags (front, outboard positions) and side rail curtains. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 departed the right side of the roadway in the area of the left turning curve. Vehicle 1 struck a 24 cm high concrete curb with its right front and rear wheels (events 1 and 2) and then with its left front wheel (event 3). Vehicle 1 traveled along the right roadside a short distance, sideswiping a small tree with its right side mirror (event 4), before striking a utility pole (replaced) with its front left corner area (event 5). As a result of the pole impact, Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise before coming rest a short distance north of the pole impact, in the entrance way of a gas station. As a result of the curb and pole impacts, the driver's frontal impact air bag deployed, as did both side rail curtains and side hip/torso air bags. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was removed from the vehicle by responding emergency medical services personnel (EMS) and subsequently transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center. He was hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.