Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 46-year old, male driver, of a 2005 Dodge Neon 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in far side, right front impact with the frontal plane of a 2009 Toyota Camry. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight), of a spring weekday, at the intersection of a north/south roadway and an east/west residential roadway. The north/south roadway is straight and consists of a northbound lane, a southbound lane and a mutual, left turn center lane. The residential roadway is straight and intersects the north/south roadway on the west side, forming a "T-type" intersection. The north/south roadway has a reported speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h) while the residential roadway has a speed limit of 25 mph (40 km/h). At time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2005 Dodge Neon 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 46-year old male driver (case occupant), in the southbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the north. He intended to continue traveling south. He was not utilizing an available 3-point lap/shoulder belt, but the vehicle was noted to be equipped with frontal impact air bags. Vehicle 2, a 2009 Toyota Camry, was on the residential roadway and attempting to turn left at the intersection. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to turn left and continue traveling north. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection and the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Vehicle 1 eventually rotated clockwise out of the impact and in a southeasterly direction. Vehicle 1 eventually departed the roadway and rolled-over (4 quarter turns) and came to rest south of the intersection, at the east roadside, facing a westerly direction. As a result of the first impact, Vehicle 2 rotated clockwise as well and came to rest in the roadway, slightly south of the intersection, facing a southwesterly direction. As a result of the first impact, Vehicle 1's frontal impact air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was able to exit the vehicle under his own power. Both involved driver's were eventually transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.