Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 77-year old, male driver, of a 2007 Honda Civic 2-door coupe, which was primarily involved in a frontal impact. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the late afternoon hours (dusk), of a fall weekday, on a slightly curved, four-lane roadway, of a north/south trafficway. This southbound roadway has a slight right turning curve leading to a bridge structure. At time of the crash, it was raining and the roadway surface was wet. The speed limit for this roadway is 65 mph (105 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2007 Honda Civic 2-door coupe, was being operated by the 77-year old male driver (case occupant), reportedly in the third southbound travel lane. He was negotiating the slight right-handed curve portion of the roadway. He was utilizing his respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with retractor and buckle pretensioner devices) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, front outboard side torso air bags and roof side rail curtains. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 departed the left side of the roadway and struck the face of a guardrail with its front left corner with sideswiping down the left side plane (event 1). The driver apparently steered right, but traveled across all four southbound lanes only to strike a bridge wall with its front right (event 2). Vehicle 1, based upon scraping to its right front door area and right A-pillar, appears to have slid down the wall, with a possible slight right roll (event 3), before coming to rest in the right shoulder area. As a result of this crash, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed as did the driver's side torso air bag and both side rail curtains (driver's buckle pretensioner also actuated). Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle and transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.