Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 45-year old, female driver, of a 2007 Acura MDX compact utility vehicle, which was primarily involved in a near side collision with the frontal plane of a 2003 GMC Sierra (1500) pick-up truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the late evening hours (dark, but street lights present) of a summer weekday, at the intersection of two roadways. Both roadways and intersection are relatively level. The east/west roadway intersects the north/south roadway at an angle (obtuse angle for the northern and western legs). The western, northern and eastern legs of the intersection are composed of three travel lanes, while the southern leg is composed of four travel lanes. The speed limit for both roadways is 45 mph (72 km/h) and at the time of the crash, it was reported to be raining and the roadway surfaces were reported to be wet. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Acura MDX compact utility vehicle, was being operated by the 45-year old female driver (case occupant) and sole occupant. The driver of Vehicle 1 was utilizing her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with retractor type pretensioner) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, front (outboard) seat back mounted torso/hip side air bags and side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 was traveling eastbound, approaching the intersection from the west (western leg of intersection) and intended to cross over the intersection and continue traveling east. Vehicle 2, a 2003 GMC Sierra (1500) pick-up truck, was traveling southbound, approaching the intersection from the north (northern leg). The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to cross over the intersection and continue traveling south. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1). As a result, Vehicle 1 was rotated clockwise as Vehicle 2 rotated counterclockwise resulting in a subsequent "side slap" type impact (left side plane of Vehicle 1 with the right side plane of Vehicle 2). Both vehicles were redirected to the southeast corner of the intersection where Vehicle 2 departed the roadway and came to rest, facing a southeasterly direction while Vehicle 1 came to rest further south, up against the east curb edge, facing south (left rear wheel impact / event 3). As a result of the initial impact, the driver's frontal air bag, side torso/hip air bag and left side rail curtain deployed for Vehicle 1. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was removed from the vehicle by responding emergency medical services personnel (EMS) and transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center, but was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver and rear passenger of Vehicle 2 were also transported to a local trauma center, by land unit. The extent of their injuries and treatments, if any, are unknown. Both vehicles were towed due to damage sustained in the crash.