Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 29-year old, female driver, of a 2010 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a frontal impact with a 2000 Ford Windstar minivan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This three-vehicle collision occurred during the late morning hours (daylight), of a winter weekday, at the controlled intersection of a north/south trafficway and a four-lane, east/west roadway. The southern leg of the intersection is composed of four northbound travel lanes (two through lanes, one dedicated left turn lane and one dedicated right turn lane) and three southbound travel lanes. The western and eastern legs of the intersection are composed of two eastbound lanes and two westbound lanes respectively. Approaching the intersection from south, the northbound travel lanes have a downhill grade while the eastbound lanes, approaching the intersection from the west, have an uphill grade leading into the intersection. The north/south trafficway has a speed limit of 45 mph (72 km/h) while the east/west roadway has a speed limit of 40 mph (64 km/h). At time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2010 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 29-year old female driver (case occupant), in the right eastbound lane, at the western leg of the intersection. She was at stop and intended to travel through the intersection and continue traveling east. She was not utilizing an available 3-point lap/shoulder belt, but the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, a driver knee bolster air bag, front outboard side bags and roof side rail curtains. Vehicle 2, a 2000 Ford Windstar minivan, was in the right northbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to travel through the intersection and continue traveling north. Vehicle 3, a 2007 Toyota Tundra pick-up truck, was stopped, at the eastern leg of the intersection, in the right westbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 3 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling west. Crash: Vehicles 1 and 2 entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the front left/left front of Vehicle 2 (event 1). As a result, Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise as Vehicle 2 rotated clockwise resulting in Vehicle 1's right side plane impacting Vehicle 2's left side plane (side slap / event 2). At this time, Vehicle 1 came to rest in the intersection facing a northerly direction; however, Vehicle 2 was redirected to the eastern leg of the intersection where it struck the front plane of Vehicle 3 with its frontal plane before coming to rest (event 3). As a result of the first impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed as did the driver's knee bolster air bag and the right side curtain. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. Both the drivers of Vehicle 2 and Vehicle 3 were transported, by land units, to a local hospital. The extent of their injuries and treatments, if any, are unknown. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed due to damage sustained in the crash. Vehicle 3 was not towed due to damage.