Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 59-year old, male driver, of a 2003 Jeep Wrangler compact utility vehicle, which was involved in a frontal impact with the side plane of a 2009 Ford Mustang 2-door coupe. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight), of a winter weekday, on a slightly curved two-lane roadway. This roadway runs generally north and south, curves from right to left and has an uphill grade for the northbound travel direction. The roadway has a speed limit of 35 mph (56 km/h). At time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2003 Jeep Wrangler, was being operated by the 59-year old male driver (case occupant), in the southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling south. He was utilizing an available 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle was noted to be equipped with redesigned frontal impact air bags. Vehicle 2, a 2009 Ford Mustang 2-door coupe, was traveling northbound. The driver of Vehicle 2 was negotiating the left handed curve and intended to continue traveling north. Crash: As Vehicle 2 traveled northbound, its right side tires departed the right edge of the roadway. As a result, Vehicle 2 experienced a loss of control as the driver over-steered left. Vehicle 2 entered the southbound travel lane, turning left, as Vehicle 1 approached from the north. Based upon Vehicle 1's damage, it appears that the driver of Vehicle 1 may have steered right in order to avoid a collision, but was unsuccessful. Vehicle 1's frontal plane (front left half) struck the right side plane of Vehicle 2 as it departed the south roadway edge. Vehicle 2 came to rest at the south roadside, facing southwest, after striking a small bush and garden material with its frontal plane. Vehicle 1 also came to rest at the south edge of the roadway, facing a southeasterly direction. As a result of the first event, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was transported by both land/air units to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver and passenger of Vehicle 2 were transported to a local hospital. The extent of their injuries and treatments, if any, are unknown. Both vehicles were towed due to damage sustained in the crash.