Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 43-year old, male driver, of a 2005 Chevrolet Astro Cargo Van, which was involved in an offset frontal collision with the frontal plane of a 2008 Chevrolet Silverado pick-up truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This three-vehicle collision occurred during the late afternoon hours (daylight) of a summer weekday, at intersection of a four-lane, north/south roadway and a two-lane, east/west roadway. The north/south roadway consists of one northbound through lane, one southbound through lane, dedicated right turn lanes and dedicated merge lanes at the intersection area. The east/west roadway is composed of one eastbound lane and one westbound lane. At the area of the intersection, both roadways are straight, level and intersect at ninety degrees. The speed limit for the north/south roadway segment is 50 mph (80 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2005 Chevrolet Astro Cargo Van, was being operated by the 43-year old male driver (case occupant) in the northbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 1 was noted to be utilizing his respective 3-point, lap/shoulder belt restraint. Vehicle 1 is also noted to be equipped with frontal air bags only. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling north. Vehicle 2, a 2008 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 pick-up truck, was stopped at the intersection, in the southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling east. Vehicle 3, a 2008 Range Rover Sport utility vehicle, was traveling southbound, approaching the intersection from the north. The driver of Vehicle 3 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling south. Crash: For unknown reasons, the frontal plane of Vehicle 3 struck the rear plane of Vehicle 2 (event 1). The resultant impact pushed Vehicle 2 forward and left into the travel path of Vehicle 1. At this time, Vehicle 1's frontal plane (front left) struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 in the intersection (event 2). Vehicle 1 is believed to have rotated counterclockwise and come to rest within the confines of the intersection north of the impact area, near the northeast corner of the intersection. Vehicle 2 is believed to have also rotated counterclockwise and came to rest within the center of the intersection, facing an easterly direction. Vehicle 3 is believed to have come to rest just south of its impact area, in the southbound travel lanes, facing a southerly direction. Although equipped with frontal air bags, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags did not deploy. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was extricated from the vehicle and transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The drivers of Vehicle 2 and Vehicle 3 were reported to be uninjured. All three vehicles involved in the crash were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.