Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 61-year old, male driver, of a 2006 Mercedes-Benz S-430 sedan, which was involved in a frontal impact with the frontal plane of a 2007 Cadillac DTS 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight), of an early spring weekday, on a two-lane roadway. This roadway runs generally north and south and has slight left-handed curve, for the southbound travel direction, as it leads into a positive graded, straight section of roadway. The roadway has a speed limit of 35 mph (56 km/h) and the overall environment is rural in nature. At time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was reportedly wet. Vehicle 1, the 2006 Mercedes-Benz S-430 sedan, was being operated by the 61- year old male driver (case occupant), in the southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was approaching the straight section of the roadway and intended to continue traveling south. He was utilizing an available 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with buckle pretensioner) and the vehicle was noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, door mounted side air bags and side rail curtains. Vehicle 2, a 2007 Cadillac DTS 4-door sedan, was traveling northbound, on the straight section of the roadway (downhill grade). The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling north. Crash: As Vehicle 2 traveled northbound, it drifted into the southbound travel lane as Vehicle 1 approached from the south. The driver of Vehicle 1, seeing the approach of Vehicle 2, steered left. The driver of Vehicle 2, who became aware of the situation, steered right in order to regain the northbound roadway. Both drivers were unsuccessful in their avoidance maneuvers and the frontal plane (front right) of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane (front left corner area) of Vehicle 2. The majority of both vehicles came to rest in the northbound travel lane, with both vehicles facing primarily an easterly direction. As a result of the impact, the driver's frontal air bag deployed for Vehicle 1. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was able to self extricate himself from the vehicle. He was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred later that day to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured. Vehicle 1 and 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.