Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 68-year old, female driver of a 2006 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, which was involved in a near side collision with the frontal plane of a 2007 Volkswagen Jetta 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) of a summer weekday, at the entrance/exit of a parking lot and a multi-lane, north/south roadway. The north/south roadway consists of two southbound lanes, a dual center left turn lane and one northbound travel lane. The north/south roadway is relatively level, with a slight right turning curve for the northbound travel direction. The parking lot entrance/exit intersects the north/south roadway on the east side. The speed limit for the north/south roadway is 45 mph (72 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2006 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 68-year old female driver (case occupant) and sole occupant. The driver was noted to be utilizing her respective 3-point, lap/shoulder belt restraint (with retractor type pretensioner). Vehicle 1 is also noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, front, seat back mounted side impact air bags and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to turn left out of the parking lot and continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 2007 Volkswagen Jetta 4-door sedan, was traveling north, approaching the entrance/exit area of the eastside parking lot. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling north. Crash: As Vehicle 1 started to turn left, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane (near side) of Vehicle 1 with its frontal plane. Vehicle 1 rotated slightly counterclockwise out of the impact and came to rest within the roadway's travel lanes, facing a southwesterly direction. Vehicle 2 pivoted slightly counterclockwise and also came to rest within the roadway's travel lanes, facing a northerly direction. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's left side curtain and driver's side air bag (seat back mounted) deployed. Vehicle 2's frontal air bags deployed as well. Post-Crash: Both the driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) and the right front passenger of Vehicle 2 (case occupants) were removed from their respective vehicles and transported, by land units, to a local trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was hospitalized with minor to critical injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.