Case Focus: The focus of this case is on an 18-year old, female driver, of a 2003 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a near side collision with the frontal plane of a 2008 Chevrolet Trailblazer sport utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the late afternoon hours (daylight) of a summer weekday, at the intersection of an east/west roadway and a north/south trafficway. The eastern leg of the intersection is composed of three, straight travel lanes (one eastbound lane, one westbound lane and a dedicated right turn lane), while the southern leg of the intersection is composed of five travel lanes (three northbound travel lanes, one dedicated left turn lane and one dedicated right turn lane). The southern leg represents the northbound travel direction of the north/south trafficway. The northern leg has a downhill grade leading into the intersection, while the southern leg of the intersection is level, but has a right turning curve leading into the intersection. The western leg of the intersection is also composed of three travel lanes (one westbound lane, one eastbound lane and a dedicated left turn lane for northbound travel. The speed limit for the northbound roadway is 45 mph (72 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were reported to be dry. Vehicle 1, the 2003 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 18-year old female driver (case occupant). Occupying the right front seating position was a 15-year old female passenger. The driver of Vehicle 1 was utilizing her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with retractor type pretensioner), though usage for the 15-year old passenger could not be determined. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with only second generation (re-designed) frontal air bags (seat back mounted side air bags and side curtains are also indicated for this model year, though the case vehicle did not display any indication of the presence of these safety systems - possible option). The driver of Vehicle 1 was stopped at the eastern leg of the intersection, in the westbound through lane; with the intention of crossing over the northbound travel lanes in order to continue traveling west. Vehicle 2, a 2008 Chevrolet Trailblazer sport utility vehicle, was traveling northbound, in the center northbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 2 was negotiating the slight right turning curve and intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling north. Crash: Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 in a "t-bone" type configuration. Vehicle 2 was redirected to the northwest, while Vehicle 1 pivoted rotated clockwise. At this time, the right side plane of Vehicle 2 slightly sideswiped the left side plane of Vehicle 1 before both vehicles came to rest within the confines of the intersection. There were no air bag deployments for Vehicle 1 and it is unknown if Vehicle 2 had any air bag deployments for this crash. Post-Crash: Both the driver (case occupant) and passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center. The driver was hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries, while the right front passenger was examined and released (supposedly uninjured). Both the driver and right front passenger of Vehicle 2 were reported to have sustained non-incapacitating injuries, but the extent of their injuries and treatments, if any, are unknown.