Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 23-year old, male driver, of a 2005 Kia Spectra, who was involved in a head-on collision (offset) with a 2007 Honda Civic. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the very early morning hours (dark) of a spring weekend, on a three-lane westbound roadway, within the confines of an interchange area (interchange itself not related to the crash). This roadway is the westbound travel direction of an east/west trafficway. At the area of the crash, this bituminous roadway is straight and has a downhill grade for the westbound travel direction. The speed limit for the roadway is 55 mph (89 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was reported to be dry. Vehicle 1, the 2005 Kia Spectra, was being operated by the 23-year old male driver (case occupant) and sole occupant. He was restrained by a 3-point, lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with frontal air bags, seat back mounted side air bags (front outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 was traveling in the center westbound travel lane and intended to continue traveling west. Vehicle 2, a 2007 Honda Civic, was traveling eastbound, in the westbound travel lanes, reportedly, without activated head lamps. It was also reported that Vehicle 2 had been traveling eastbound, in the westbound travel lanes for some time and with noted prior impact damage. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 2 moved into the center west bound travel as Vehicle 1 approached from the east. At this time, Vehicle 2's frontal plane struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 in an offset fashion. Vehicle 2 was pushed back while rotating counterclockwise and departed the south edge of the roadway, where it came to rest, facing a westerly direction. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise and departed the north edge of the roadway, west of the impact area, and came to rest at the paved shoulder area, facing a southerly direction. As a result the impact, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed. Post-Crash: Both the drivers were extricated from their respective vehicles and transported, by air units, to a local trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was treated, but the extent of his injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown.