Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 62-year old, male driver, of a 2006 Chevrolet Impala 4-door sedan, which was involved in a narrow corner frontal collision with a 2006 Chevrolet Tahoe. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) of summer weekday, on graded, but straight, north/south, two-lane roadway (positive grade for the southbound travel direction). At the area of the crash, the southbound travel direction has a speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h), while the northbound travel direction has a speed limit of 40 mph (64 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2006 Chevrolet Impala 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 62-year old male driver (case occupant), in the southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was noted to be utilizing his 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling south. Vehicle 2, a 2006 Chevrolet Tahoe utility vehicle, was traveling northbound, approaching the crash area from the south. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling north. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 2 departed its travel lane and entered the southbound travel lane, traveling north. The driver of Vehicle 1 saw the approach of Vehicle 2 and started to brake, but was unsuccessful in avoiding Vehicle 2. The frontal plane of Vehicle 2 engaged the front left corner of Vehicle 1 (event 1). Due to the engagement, both vehicles started to rotate counterclockwise. Vehicle 1 rotated to the western roadside edge, where it struck a tree with its right side plane (event 2) before coming to rest, facing a southeasterly direction. Vehicle 2 rotated counterclockwise to its final resting position, north of the impact area, straddling the travel lanes, facing a westerly direction. Due to the first impact with Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed and the driver's belt pretensioner actuated. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was extricated from the vehicle (20 minute extrication time) and transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to have sustained non-incapacitating injuries, but the extent of their injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.