Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 22-year old, female driver, of a 2007 Saturn Ion, which was involved in an interrupted rollover crash. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the pre-midnight hour (dark), of a winter weekend, on a three-lane, bituminous, southbound roadway. This roadway represents the south travel lanes of a north/south trafficway. The roadway has a right turning curve before straightening out in the area of the crash. The speed limit is 50 mph (80 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was reported to be dry. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Saturn Ion, was being operated by the 22-year old female driver (case occupant), in the southbound travel lanes. She intended to continue traveling south. She was not utilizing an available 3-point lap/shoulder belt, but the vehicle was noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 experienced a loss of control (it is believed that Vehicle 1 may have drifted toward the left roadway edge and the driver initiated a right over-steering maneuver). Vehicle 1 departed the right roadside edge while in a clockwise rotation (left side leading). At this time, Vehicle 1 started to climb a grass covered embankment, but tripped at the wheels as it rolled over (left side roll). However, sometime during the 1st to 2nd quarter turn Vehicle 1's rollover was interrupted as it struck a tree with its' top plane (roof). Vehicle 1 is believed to have struck a smaller second tree with its right front corner area as it completed its 2nd quarter turn onto its roof. At this time, Vehicle 1 is believed to have slid down the embankment and come to rest in a shallow gulley area off the west side of the roadway. There were no air bag deployments for this crash. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was found on the interior roof panel in the area between the first and second row seats (greatly diminished passenger compartment space at the 2nd row seating area). She was removed from the vehicle by responding emergency medical services personnel (left side doors removed) and was subsequently transported, by land, to a local hospital. However, she was subsequently transferred to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.