Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 22-year old, male driver (case occupant), of a 2003 Chevrolet Trailblazer utility vehicle, which was primarily involved in a frontal impact with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the early morning hours (dawn), of a fall weekday, on a slightly curved, two-lane, bituminous, east/west roadway. This roadway has an uphill grade that curves slightly to the right for the westbound travel direction. The roadway then straightens-out at the area of a hillcrest, prior to the roadway transitioning to a downhill grade (westbound travel direction). The overall environment is rural in nature. At the time of the crash, it was raining and the roadway surface was wet. The speed limit for the east/west roadway is 45 mph (72 km/h). Vehicle 1, a 2003 Chevrolet Trailblazer utility vehicle, was being operated in the westbound travel lane by the 22-year old male driver (case occupant). He was not utilizing an available 3-point, lap/shoulder belt, but the vehicle was equipped with second generation frontal impact air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the curved area of the roadway and continue traveling westbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 traveled west, it crossed into and over the eastbound travel lane, prior to departing the roadway at the south edge. Vehicle 1 entered the south roadside area (wooded) at which time it likely struck a small tree/shrub with its front right corner area (minor / event 1) and another small tree/shrub with its right side plane (minor / event 2). Vehicle 1 continued on through the wooded area and eventually struck a large tree with its frontal plane (main impact / event 3). Vehicle 1 likely pivoted counterclockwise unknown degree before coming to rest at or near the tree. As a result of this last and most severe impact, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center, but was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash scene due to damage sustained in the crash. Occupant Kinematics: This 22-year old male case occupant was the driver of a 2003 Chevrolet Trailblazer utility vehicle, which was primarily involved in a severe, 12 o'clock frontal impact with a large tree. The male case occupant was not belted, but the second generation frontal air bag did deploy as a result of the impact with the tree. The case occupant was sitting upright, in a slightly reclined position, with his bucket seat adjusted to the rear seat track position. At the time of the crash, the case occupant was 72 in (183 cm) in height and weighed 280 lbs (127 kg). During the main impact with the tree (event 3), the case occupant was projected forward, in reference to the vehicle. He loaded through the deployed frontal air bag, striking the steering wheel rim, bending the same, and compressed the column, which broke loose. His knees struck the knee bolster panel, deforming the same. Based upon a dislodged brake pad and wear/scuff mark, it is believed that the case occupant was braking or attempting brake prior to the impact. Though scuff marks were present at the left window frame and left A-pillar trim panel, these components were not attributed to any injuries. The same could be said for scuffs/abrasions located at the roof panel, above the case occupant's seating area. The case occupant came to rest in his respective seating area with no further consequences. Injury Analysis: The case occupant's injuries include: a left femur head fracture, a right femur shaft fracture, a left posterior wall acetabulum fracture, a right knee contusion and laceration. All these injuries were the certain result of contact loading of the knee bolster with the left and right knee respectively. The case occupant also sustained a right ankle contusion, which was possibly the result of contact with the brake pedal. The maximum Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS) for this case occupant was AIS 3.