Case Focus: The focus of this case is on an 86-year old, female driver, of a 2010 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, which was involved in a front left corner impact with a 2005 Pontiac G6 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the mid-day hours (daylight), of a winter weekend, on a curved, three-lane east/west roadway. This roadway consists of one eastbound lane, one westbound lane, and dual left-turn center lane. For the eastbound travel direction, the roadway curves to the right with a slight downhill grade. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The speed limit for this roadway is 35 mph (56 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2010 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 86-year old female driver (case occupant), in the eastbound travel lane. She was in the process of negotiating the right turning curve and downhill grade. She intended to negotiate the curve and continue traveling eastbound. She was utilizing her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, a driver's knee bolster air bag, front outboard, torso/hip side bags and roof side rail curtains. Vehicle 2, a 2005 Pontiac G6 4-door sedan, was traveling in the westbound travel lane, approaching the crash area from the east. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to negotiate the left turning curve and continue traveling west. Crash: For unknown reasons, as Vehicle 1 traveled east, it drifted left and crossed into and over the duel left-turn center lane and entered the westbound travel lane. At this time, the front left corner of Vehicle 1 struck the front left corner of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Both vehicles rotated counterclockwise before coming to rest in the north shoulder area of the roadway. Vehicle 2 came to rest, facing south, while Vehicle 1 came to rest facing north. As a result of this crash, the driver's frontal air bag and knee bolster air bag deployed for Vehicle 1. Post-Crash: Both drivers and the two passengers of Vehicle 2 were transported, by land unit, to a local hospital with reported incapacitating injuries. However, the driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was later transferred to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.