Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 24-year old, female driver of a 2005 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan, which was involved in a frontal collision with the rear plane of a 2005 Nissan Xterra compact utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This multi-vehicle collision occurred during the early afternoon hours (daylight) of an early fall weekday, on a northbound roadway, at the southern approaches of an intersection. This northbound roadway is composed of three northbound through lanes, a dedicated right turn lane and two left turn lanes. The roadway is relatively straight and level. The speed limit is 50 mph (80 km/h) and at the time of the crash, it was raining and the roadway surface was wet. The intersection is controlled by standard, overhead, tri-colored electric traffic signals. Vehicle 1, the 2005 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 24-year old female driver (case occupant 1) in the left, northbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 1 was utilizing her respective 3-point, lap/shoulder belt restraint (with retractor type pretensioner). Vehicle 1 is also noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags only. Vehicle 2, the 2005 Nissan Xterra compact utility vehicle, was traveling in the center, northbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the south. Vehicle 3, a 1996 Ford Explorer utility vehicle, was stopped in the right, left turn lane, of the northbound roadway, just behind Vehicle 4. Vehicle 4, a 2007 BMW 525i 4-door sedan, was stopped in the right, left turn lane, of the northbound roadway, directly in front of Vehicle 3. Crash: As Vehicle 2 traveled north, it changed lanes to the left and directly in front of Vehicle 1, in order to enter the left turn lanes. At this time, Vehicle 2 came to a stop in V1's travel lane. Vehicle 1 was unable to avoid a collision and as a result, Vehicle 1's frontal plane struck and under rode the rear plane of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Vehicle 2 was pushed forward while rotating counterclockwise. At this time, Vehicle 2's frontal plane struck the back right corner of Vehicle 3 (event 2). Vehicle 2 continued to rotate counterclockwise and subsequently struck the right side plane of Vehicle 4 with its right side plane (event 3), before coming to rest, in the travel lanes, facing south. Vehicle 4 came to rest in the left turn lane, facing north. Vehicle 3 came to rest in the left turn lanes, facing a northwesterly direction, while Vehicle 1 came to rest in the travel lanes, facing mostly a northerly direction. As a result of its impact with Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal impact air bag deployed and the front, seat belt pretensioners actuated. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was assisted from the vehicle and to the side of the roadway (median) by bystanders. She was eventually transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred to a local trauma center and hospitalized with moderate injuries. The driver of Vehicle 4 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital with possible injuries. All other drivers/occupants were reported to be uninjured. Vehicles 2, 3 and 4 were driven from the scene of the crash by their respective parties. Vehicle 1 was towed due to damage sustained in the crash.