Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 23-year old, female driver, of a 2006 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, which was involved in a frontal impact with a bridge wall/barrier. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (dawn), of a winter weekday, on a three-lane westbound roadway, of an east/west trafficway, at the area of a bridge structure. Prior to the bridge structure, the westbound roadway is straight and has a downhill grade, with guardrails lining either side of the road. At the bridge structure, the roadway curves to the right with the guardrails transitioning into concrete walls. At time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The speed limit for this westbound roadway is 55 mph (89 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2006 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 23-year old female case occupant, in the right westbound travel lane, approaching the bridge structure from the east. She intended to continue traveling westbound. She was utilizing her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with retractor type pretensioner) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags. Crash: As Vehicle 1 traveled west, it drifted off the right side of the roadway and sideswiped the face of the north guardrail, just prior to the bridge structure, with its front right corner and right side plane (event 1). Apparently, after impacting the guardrail, the driver of Vehicle 1 steered left, but crossed all three westbound lanes at the bridge structure before striking the south concrete wall of the bridge with its frontal plane (event 2). After striking the bridge wall, Vehicle 1 came to rest, west of the wall strike, in the left westbound lane, reportedly facing west. As a result of the second and main impact for Vehicle 1 (wall impact), the driver's retractor type pretensioner actuated and her advanced frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.