Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 57-year old, right front, female passenger, of a 2003 Volkswagen GTI 2-door hatchback, which was primarily involved in a front undercarriage collision with a curb. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the late evening hours, of a summer weekend, at the intersection of a north/south trafficway and an east/west roadway. The north/south trafficway intersects the east/west roadway on the north side, forming a "T-type" intersection. The southbound roadway of the north/south trafficway is composed of three travel lanes and one channelized lane. The southbound roadway is straight, but has a slight downhill grade (less than 2% grade). Located at the south edge of the intersection is a raised curb (approaximately 19 cm) and a sidewalk. Beyond the sidewalk is a steep embankment (downhill grade), which leads into a wooded area. The eastern and western legs of the intersection did not play a part in the crash. The intersection is controlled by standard, electric, tri-colored traffic signals. The southbound roadway has a speed limit of 30 mph (48 km/h). At the time of the crash, it was raining heavily and the roadway surfaces were wet. Vehicle 1, the 2003 Volkswagen GTI 2-door hatchback, was being operated by a 60-year old male driver in the southbound travel lanes, approaching the intersection from the north. Occupying the right front seating position was the 57-year old female case occupant. Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts (with retractor type pretensioners) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with redesigned frontal air bags, front outboard (seat back), hip/torso side air bags and roof side rail curtains. At the time of the crash, the driver was intending to turn right at the intersection. Crash: As Vehicle 1 approached the intersection, the driver braked, but started to slide on the wet roadway. Vehicle 1 slid into and through the intersection, while traveling south. Vehicle 1's lower frontal plane/undercarriage struck the curb at the south roadside edge (event 1) and continued on, traversing the sidewalk and then descending the steep embankment. Vehicle 1's lower frontal plane/undercarriage appears to have impacted the ground (mud/organic debris / event 2) before it came to rest at the bottom of the embankment, facing a southerly direction. At the time of the curb impact, it is believed that Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deplolyed; however, it could not be determined exactly when the front outboard, hip/torso side bags deployed or the roof side rail curtains. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was reported to be uninjured, but the 57-year old, right front female passenger was transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with moderate inujuries. Vehicle 1 was towed due damage sustained in the crash.