Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 55-year old, male driver, of a 2004 Nissan Sentra 4-door sedan, which was involved in a near side impact by the frontal plane of a 2004 GMC Canyon pick-up truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the evening hours (dark, street lights present), of a fall weekday, at the intersection of a two-lane, east/west trafficway and a north/south trafficway. The east/west trafficway intersects the north/south trafficway on the east side, forming a "T-type" intersection. The northbound roadway, leading into and through the intersection, has a right turning curve, while the east/west trafficway is straight. The north/south roadway is relatively level while the eastern leg of the intersection has a slight uphill grade at the intersection. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Both trafficways have a speed limit of 55 mph (89 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2004 Nissan Sentra, was stopped at the intersection, in the westbound travel lane. Vehicle 1's driver, the 55-year old male case occupant, intended to turn left and continue traveling southbound. Due to the impact configuration and damage to the left B-pillar, it could not be determined if the driver was utilizing his 3-point lap/shoulder belt. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with frontal air bags, but no there were no air bag deployments associated with Vehicle 1. Vehicle 2, a 2004 GMC Canyon pick-up truck, was traveling in the right, northbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling north. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1. As a result, Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise and the left side plane of Vehicle 1 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 2. Both vehicles came to rest in the intersection, with Vehicle 1 facing a southerly direction while Vehicle 2 came to rest facing a northwesterly direction. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured; however, the driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from his respective vehicle and transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Both vehicles had to be towed due to damage sustained in the crash.