Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 73-year old, female right front passenger, of a 2009 Mercury Mountaineer, who was involved in a frontal impact with the side plane of a 2006 Jeep Grand Cherokee. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred in the pre-midday hour (daylight), of a fall weekday, on a straight, two-lane roadway. This roadway runs generally north and south and has an uphill grade for the southbound travel direction. Bordering the roadway on either side are residential housing units with intersecting driveways. The roadway has a speed limit of 30 mph (48 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2009 Mercury Mountaineer, was being operated by a 78-year old male driver, in the southbound travel lane. Occupying the right front seating position was the 73-year old, right front female passenger (case occupant). Both occupants were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advance frontal air bags, front seat back mounted side impact air bags and side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 2006 Jeep Grand Cherokee, was backing out of a residential driveway. This driveway intersects the north/south roadway on the westside. Crash: As Vehicle 2 backed out the driveway, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 2. Vehicle 2 was rotated counterclockwise and in so doing the right side plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1. Vehicle 2 continued to rotate and eventually departed the east side of the roadway where it struck a mail box and a utility pole with its frontal plane, before coming to rest. Vehicle 1 came to rest in the roadway, facing a southeasterly direction. Due to the impact with Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1’s frontal impact air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was able to exit the vehicle under his own power and was reported to be uninjured. The right front passenger of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. Both the driver and the right front occupant of Vehicle 2 were transported to a local hospital. The extenet of their injuries and treatments, if any, are unknown. Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.