Case Focus: The focus of this case is on an 82-year old, male driver and an 80-year old, right front, female passenger, both of a 2005 Honda Civic, which was involved in a right side impact, by the frontal plane of a 2006 Toyota 4Runner. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the evening hours (dusk) of fall weekday, at the intersection of an east/west trafficway and the entrance to a shopping mall. The shopping mall entrance intersects the east/west trafficway, at an angle, on the north side (skewed "T-type" intersection). The eastbound roadway, as it approaches the intersection, is composed of two through lanes and a dedicated left turn lane (entrance to the shopping mall). The westbound roadway, as it approaches the intersection, is composed of two through lanes and a dedicated right turn lane (entrance to the shopping mall). The two travel directions are separated by a grassy median. The shopping mall entrance is composed two travel lanes, one for each direction. Both the east and west bound roadways are straight and level. The intersection is controlled by overhead, standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals. The east/west trafficway has a speed limit of 55 mph (89 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2005 Honda Civic, was being operated by the 82-year old male driver (case occupant1) in the eastbound, left turn lane. Occupying the right front seating position was the 80-year old female passenger (case occupant 2). Both occupants are noted to be utilizing their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts (with retractor/buckle pretensioner) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with redesigned frontal air bags and front seat back mounted, side torso air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to turn left at the intersection and enter the shopping mall. Vehicle 2, a 2006 Toyota 4Runner, was traveling westbound, in the left westbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the east. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling west. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 1 (right rear door area). Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise out of the impact and came to rest at the entrance to the shopping mall roadway, facing an unknown direction. Vehicle 2 came to rest at the median, east of the impact area. Due to the impact with Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed, as did the right fornt, seat back mounted side torso air bag. Post-Crash: Both the driver and right front passenger (case occupants) of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local trauma center and hospitalized. The driver sustained minor to serious injuries, while the passenger sustained minor to moderate injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be possibly injured, while the right front passenger of Vehicle 2 was transported to a local hospital with non-incapacitating injuries. The extent of their injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due damage sustained in the crash.