Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 55-year-old, female driver of a 2012 Kia Forte, which was primarily involved in a frontal impact with a stone/concrete wall. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the late evening hours (dark) of spring weekend, on a slightly curved, four-lane east/west roadway, just east of an intersecting roadway. This east/west roadway normally consists of two travel lanes, but due to the intersection, widens to accommodate an additional passing lane, for either travel direction. The east/west roadway also curves to the left for the eastbound travel direction, has a slight uphill grade, and has a speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2012 Kia Forte 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 55-year-old female driver, in the eastbound travel lane. The driver was noted to be utilizing her 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, front seat-back mounted, side hip/torso air bags and left and right side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 was in the process of negotiating the left turning curve, and intended to continue traveling east. Crash: As Vehicle 1 traveled along the left turning roadway, it departed the right side of the road where it subsequently struck a utility pole with its front right corner area extending down the right side plane (event 1). Vehicle 1 then struck a mail box post with its frontal plane (event 2) before striking a stone/concrete wall with its frontal plane (event 3). Vehicle 1 came to rest near the stone wall, facing a southerly direction. As a result of the first impact (event 1), it is believed that Vehicle 1's right side curtain and front right side hip/torso air bags deployed. As a result of the frontal impact with the stone wall (event 3), it is believed that Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center, by air unit, and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due damage sustained in the crash.