Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 46-year old, right front female passenger and a 15-year old, second row, left female passenger, both of a 2009 Chevrolet Suburban, which was involved in a head-on collision with a 2012 Chrysler 200 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the mid-day hours (daylight) of an early spring weekday, on a north/south two-lane roadway. This roadway is relatively straight and level with a speed limit of 55 mph (89 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2009 Chevrolet Suburban, was being operated by a 17-year old male driver, in the northbound travel lane. Occupying the right front seating position was the 46-year old female passenger (case occupant 1) while a 15-year old female passenger (case occupant 2) occupied the 2nd row, left seating position. Occupying the 3rd row left and right seating positions were a 15-year old female passenger and 14-year old female passenger respectively. The driver, the right front passenger and the 2nd row, left female passenger were noted to be utilizing their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts. The 3rd row female passengers were unbelted. The vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, left and right side curtains (covering the 1st and 2nd row outboard positions) as well as left and right side curtains for the 3rd row outboard positions. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling north. Vehicle 2, a 2012 Chrysler 200 4-door sedan, was being operated by its driver in the southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling south. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 2 entered the northbound travel lane while traveling south. Based upon vehicle rest positions, it appears that the driver of Vehicle 1 attempted to steer left to avoid a collision, but was unsuccessful. The frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 (head-on type impact). Vehicle 1 came to rest mostly in the northbound lane, just north of the impact area, facing a northwesterly direction. Vehicle 2 was pushed rearward while rotating counterclockwise and came to rest mostly in the northbound travel lane, just north of the impact area, facing a northeasterly direction. Due to the impact, Vehicle'1 frontal air bags deployed, as did all of the left and right side curtains. Post-Crash: The male driver and the 3rd row, left female passenger of Vehicle 1 were reported to have been transported, treated and released. The right front female passenger (case occupant 1) and the 2nd row, left female passenger (case occupant 2) were both transported to a local trauma center, by air unit, and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The 3rd row, right female passenger was reported to have been transported to a local hospital, but the extent of her injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. The driver of Vehicle 2 died at the scene. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.