Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 58-year old, male driver and an 52-year old, right front female passenger, both of a 2010 Ford Focus 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a right side collision with the frontal plane of a 2008 Honda Civic 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred late morning hours (daylight) of a fall weekday, at the intersection of a north/south trafficway and an east/west roadway. The southern leg of the intersection is composed of four northbound travel lanes separated from three southbound lanes by a grassy median. The northern leg of the intersection is composed of three southbound lanes separated from two northbound lanes by a grassy median. The east/west roadway is composed of five travel lanes for both the eastern and western legs. The intersection is controlled by overhead, standard, tri-colored electric traffic signals. The northbound travel direction, leading into the intersection is straight, but has a downhill grade. The southbound travel direction, leading into the intersection, has an uphill grade and a slight right turning curve. The northbound roadway has a 40 mph speed limit (64 km/h), while the southbound travel direction has a 30 mph speed limit (48 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2010 Ford Focus 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 58-year old male driver (case occupant 1). Occupying the right front seating position was a 52-year female passenger (case occupant 2). Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were noted to be utilizing their respective 3-point, lap/shoulder belt restraints (with buckle type pretensioners). Vehicle 1 is also noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, front, seat back mounted side impact air bags and roof side rail curtains. Vehicle 1 was traveling northbound in the left turn lane, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling west. Vehicle 2, a 2008 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, was traveling in the left southbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the north. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling south. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1). As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1 was pushed laterally sideways and overturned onto its left side plane. Vehicle 1 slid in a southwesterly direction while rotating clockwise. Vehicle 1 eventually came to rest on top of a small traffic island located at the southwest corner of the intersection, facing an easterly direction. Vehicle 2 spun clockwise and came to rest near the same traffic island, in the eastbound lanes, facing a northwesterly direction. As a result of the initial impact with Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags and both the left and right side air bags (driver and passenger side torso and side curtain) deployed and the front buckle pretensioners actuated. The driver's frontal air bag for Vehicle 2 deployed as well. Post-Crash: Both the driver and right front passenger of Vehicle 1 (case occupants) were removed from the vehicle by responding emergency medical services personnel and transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center. Both case occupants were hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was transported to a local hospital with possible injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.