Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 42-year old, male driver, of a 2003 Ford Explorer, who was involved in a frontal impact with the rear plane of a 2005 International 5500 I medium straight truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the late night hours (dark), of a fall weekday, on a straight, four-lane, southbound roadway. This roadway has a slight negative grade with a speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2003 Ford Explorer utility vehicle, was being operated by the 42-year old male driver (case occupant), in the second from the left, southbound travel lane, behind Vehicle 2. The driver of Vehicle 1 was noted to be utilizing his 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with redesigned frontal impact air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling south. Vehicle 2, a 2005 International 5500I straight truck, was traveling southbound in the second from the left, southbound travel lane, directly ahead of Vehicle 1. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling southbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 traveled south, it approached Vehicle 2 from the rear. At this time, Vehicle 1’s frontal plane struck the rear plane of Vehicle 2. Vehicle 1 eventually disengaged from Vehicle 2 and traveled to the west roadside, where it came to rest, facing a southwesterly direction. Vehicle 2 came to rest in the left southbound travel lanes, facing a southerly direction. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1’s frontal impact air bags deployed. Note: There is minor sideswipe type scrape down the right side plane of Vehicle, but the source of damage and the time of damage is unknown (unknown if even related to this crash). Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed form the vehicle and transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.