Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 55-year old, male driver, of a 2008 Chrysler PT Cruiser, who was involved in a frontal impact with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred in the early morning hours (dark) of fall weekday, on curved, four-lane north/south roadway. The roadway consists of two northbound lanes and two southbound lanes, with a right turning curve for the northbound travel direction. Bordering the roadway on the west side is a slight, uphill, wooded embankment. The roadway is relatively level with a posted speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2008 Chrysler PT Cruiser, was being operated by the 55-year old male driver (case occupant), in the left northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was noted to be utilizing his 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, a driver's knee bolster air bag and front seat mounted (outboard), side impact air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the right turning curve and continue traveling north. Crash: As Vehicle 1 negotiated the right turning curve, it drifted across the southbound travel lanes and departed the west side of the roadway. Vehicle 1 climbed the small embankment and struck three small trees with its frontal plane (events 1, 2 and 3) before striking a larger tree with its frontal plane (front left). Vehicle 1 is suspected of rotating counterclockwise and unknown degree before coming to rest at the area of impact. Due to the impact with the tree, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed, as did the driver's knee bolster air bag. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was able to exit the vehicle under his own power, but was subsequently transported by the responding emergency medical services, by land unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.