This 68-year-old female case occupant was the belted, right front passenger, of a 2011 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, which was involved in a severe, 11 o'clock, frontal impact with the right side plane of a 2003 GMC Envoy utility vehicle. The case occupant was sitting upright, in a bucket seat, which was found adjusted to the rear seat track position. At the time of the crash, the case occupant was 155 cm (61 inches) in height and weighed 118 kg (260 pounds). During the impact, the case occupant was projected mostly forward and somewhat left, in reference to the vehicle. She loaded her seat belt restraint with her upper torso/pelvis (load marks at the D-ring and latch plate) as her knees impacted and deformed/scuffed the knee bolster panel with her left knee and the glove box door with her right knee. Her lower left leg made contact with the center console panel (passenger's foot well area) deforming the same with fabric transfer deposits. Her forward movement was limited by her seat belt and the possibility of loading the deployed frontal air bag; however, it is suspected, based upon injury, that her upper left arm made contact with the center instrument panel area. The case occupant rebounded and came to rest within her respective seating area, though her post crash posture is unknown. The case occupant's injuries include: an aorta laceration (descending), a sternum fracture, fractures of the right 1st through 10th ribs, fractures of the left 1st through 12th ribs, bilateral lung contusions and an abdomen contusion, all of which are due to probable contact loading of the seat belt restraint. Bilateral lung lacerations were due to the rib fractures (injury causing injury scenario). A chest contusion was the certain result of contact loading to the shoulder portion of the belt, while a spleen laceration, a mesentery laceration and a small bowel laceration were the certain result of loading the lap portion of the seat belt. A left knee laceration was due to certain contact with the lower right instrument panel area, while left and right tibia/fibula fractures were also the certain result of left and right knee contact with the lower right instrument panel and glove box door, respectively, along with the case occupant's feet loading the floor/toe pan ("nut cracker" effect). Likewise, a left foot contusion was due to probable direct contact loading of the floor/toe pan (inferred contact). A left humerus fracture (NFS), a left upper arm contusion, a left clavicle fracture, a left forearm laceration and a left hand contusion were all the possible result of contact with the center instrument panel area. Right upper extremity injuries included a right elbow laceration and a right hand contusion, both of which were possibly due to contact with the right interior door panel (forward upper quadrant area). Finally, a tongue laceration and contusion were the likely result of a "self bite" (teeth), while a left scalp hematoma was due to an unknown contact source. The maximum Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS) for this case occupant was MAIS 5.