Case Focus: The focus of this case is on three occupants of a 2012 Honda CR-V compact utility vehicle. The case occupants are an 18-year old, male driver, a 17-year old, right front passenger and a 16-year old right rear passenger. The case vehicle was involved in right side impact by the frontal plane of a 2004 International school bus (3000IC series). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) of a winter weekday, at the intersection of an east/west trafficway and a north/south, residential roadway. The westbound roadway, approaching the intersection from the east is composed of two through lanes, a dedicated right turn lane and two, dedicated left turn lanes. The eastbound roadway, approaching the intersection from the west is composed of two through lanes, a dedicated left turn lane and a dedicated right turn lane. The intersection itself is controlled by standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals. The speed limit for the east/west trafficway is 45 mph (72 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2012 Honda CR-V compact utility vehicle was in the dedicated left turn lane, of the eastbound roadway, at the intersection. The 18-year old male driver intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling north. Occupying the right front seating position was the 17-year old male case occupant, while the 16-year old male case occupant occupied the right rear seating position. All three occupants of Vehicle 1 were noted to be utilizing their respective 3-point, lap/shoulder belts (retractor type pretensioners present for front seating positions). Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, side rail curtains and front, seat back mounted, side impact air bags (torso). Vehicle 2, a 2004 International 3000IC series school bus, was in the left westbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the east. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling west. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 1. At this time, Vehicle 1 was pushed westward by Vehicle 2, through the intersection. Vehicle 1 eventually disengaged from Vehicle 2 and came to rest, west of the impact area, in the westbound travel lanes, of the western leg, facing a northwesterly direction. Vehicle 2 came to rest at the north roadside edge of the westbound lanes, west of the impact area, also facing a northwesterly direction. As a result of its impact with Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed as did the right, roof side rail curtain and the right front passenger's side torso air bag. Post-Crash: All three occupants of Vehicle 1 were removed from the vehicle by responding emergency medical services personnel and transported to a local trauma center. The driver and right front passenger were hospitalized with minor to severe injuries, while the right rear passenger was hospitalized with minor to critical injuries. The driver and one passenger of Vehicle 2 were reported to be uninjured. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.