Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 21-year old, male driver, of a 2007 Mazda RX-8 4-door coupe, who was primarily involved in an oblique frontal impact (front right corner area), with the frontal plane of a 2004 Hyundai Santa Fe compact utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This multi-vehicle collision occurred in the morning hours (daylight) of late winter weekday, at the intersection of an east/west traffic way and a north/south roadway. The eastern leg of the intersection is composed of two westbound through lanes and two dedicated left turn lanes, separated from two eastbound lanes by a raised concrete median. The western leg of the intersection is also composed of two eastbound through lanes, two dedicated left turn lanes, separated from two westbound travel lanes by a raised concrete median. The east/west trafficway has an uphill grade for the westbound travel direction, but both travel direction leading into and through the intersection are straight. The east/west trafficway has a speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h), and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the bituminous roadway surfaces were dry. The intersection is controlled by overhead, standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Mazda RX-8 4-door coupe, was being operated by the 21-year old male driver (case occupant), at the eastern leg of the intersection (heading west), in the right most, left turn lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was noted to be utilizing his 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, side torso air bags (front, outboard) and side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling south. Vehicle 2, a 2004 Hyundai Santa Fe compact utility vehicle, was traveling eastbound, in the left eastbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the west. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling eastbound. Vehicle 3, a 2008 Honda Ridgeline large pick-up truck, was at the eastern leg of the intersection (heading west), in the left most, left turn lane, next to Vehicle 1. The driver of Vehicle 3 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling south. Crash: All three vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the front right corner area of Vehicle 1 (event 1). As Vehicle 2 was redirected to the southeast, Vehicle 1 spun counterclockwise. At this time the right side plane of Vehicle 1 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 2 (event 2). Vehicle 2 continued on and came to rest at the southeast corner of the intersection; however, the frontal plane of Vehicle 3 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 3), before both vehicles came to rest within the intersection. Due to the impact with the Vehicle 2 (event 1), Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed and the driver's retractor pretensioner actuated. As a result of the impact with Vehicle 3, Vehicle 1's driver's side torso air bag deployed, as did the left side rail curtain. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver's of Vehicle 2 and Vehicle 3 were reported to have sustained possible injuries. All three vehicles were reported towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.