Case Focus: The focus of this case is on an 80-year-old, male driver of a 2004 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, which was involved in a frontal impact with the back plane of a 2006 Toyota Sequoia utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the early morning hours (dark, street lights present) of a summer weekend, on a two-lane, north/south roadway. At the area of the crash, the roadway is level, but has a left turning curve for the southbound travel direction. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The roadway has a speed limit of 35 mph (56 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2004 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 80-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the southbound travel lane. He was in the process of negotiating the left turning curve and intended to continue traveling southbound. He was restrained by an available 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. Vehicle 2, a 2006 Toyota Sequoia utility vehicle, was legally parked on the paved shoulder area, of the west side of the roadway, at the area of the curve. Vehicle 2 was not occupied at the time of the crash. Crash: As Vehicle 1 negotiated the left turning curve, it departed the western edge of the road and entered the paved shoulder area. Vehicle 1's frontal plane subsequently struck the back plane of Vehicle 2 in a rear-end type impact. Vehicle 1 came to rest at or near the area of impact, facing a southerly direction, while Vehicle 2 was reportedly pushed in a southerly direction 30 meters or less from the area of the impact. As a result of the impact, the driver's frontal air bag for Vehicle 1 deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred later in the day to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.