Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 54-year-old, female driver, of a 2011 Toyota Avalon 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a head-on collision with the frontal plane of a 2009 Cadillac Escalade utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours (dark, street lights present), of a fall weekday, on the northbound roadway of a north/south trafficway, at an access area for a parallel running service road, located east of the trafficway. The northbound roadway consists of two northbound lanes and, at the area of access, a dedicated northbound merge lane. The access area only allows for traffic to merge onto the northbound roadway to travel north. No access is allowed for traffic to travel southbound or for northbound traffic to exit. There is an intersection at the service road, east of the access area, allowing traffic on the service road to access the northbound roadway. The northbound roadway is relatively straight and level, with a speed limit of 45 mph (72 km/h), while the access area has a slight uphill grade where it intersects the northbound roadway. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2011 Toyota Avalon 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 54-year-old female driver (case occupant), in the right, northbound travel lane, approaching the access area from the south. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, a driver's knee bolster air bag, seat back mounted side air bags (front outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling northbound. Vehicle 2, a 2009 Cadillac Escalade utility vehicle, was initially traveling northbound on the service road, but had just made a left turn at the intersection and entered the access area for the northbound roadway. Crash: As Vehicle 1 approached from the south, for unknown reasons, the driver of Vehicle 2 entered the access area, but turned left onto the northbound roadway, heading south. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2. Vehicle 2 was pushed back while rotating clockwise as Vehicle 1 was redirected in a northwesterly direction. Both vehicles came to rest within the northbound travel lanes in close proximity to each other, with Vehicle 1 facing a northwesterly direction and Vehicle 2 facing a westerly direction. As a result of the frontal impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag and knee bolster air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.