Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 77-year old, female driver of a 2008 Ford Taurus, which was primarily involved in a frontal impact with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) of a spring weekday, on a three lane westbound roadway. This westbound roadway is straight with a speed limit of 30 mph (48 km/h). The roadway prior to the crash area has an uphill grade (limited sight distance), but at the crash area (just beyond the hill crest), the roadway has downhill grade. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2008 Ford Taurus, was being operated by the 77-year old female driver (case occupant) in the right, westbound lane. The driver was noted to be utilizing her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, front seat-back mounted side air bags and side curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling westbound. Vehicle 2, a 1999 Ford Escort 2-door coupe, was stopped in the right, westbound travel lane, just west of the hill crest. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling west. Crash: As the driver of Vehicle 1 crested the hill and noted the presence of Vehicle 2 being stopped in the travel lane, she apparently steered to the left. However, the front right corner area of Vehicle 1 struck the back left corner of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Vehicle 2 was pushed forward and out of the way as Vehicle 1 traveled towards the left roadside. Vehicle 1 departed the left side of the road, while striking a curb with its front left wheel/tire (event 2). Vehicle 1 continued on and subsequently struck a large tree with its frontal plane (event 3). Vehicle 1 came to rest at or near the struck tree after rotating counterclockwise an unknown degree. Vehicle 2 is believed to have come to rest just west of the initial impact area. As a result of the impact with the tree, the driver's frontal air bag for Vehicle 1 deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was also transported, by a land unit, to a local hospital, but the extent of their injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.