Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 66-year-old, female driver, of a 2009 Honda Fit 4-door hatchback, which was involved in a frontal impact with the right side plane of a 2005 Chevrolet Malibu 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the post mid-day hours (daylight), of a late summer weekday, on a graded and curved, two-lane east/west roadway. At the area of the crash, this roadway has a right turning curve and a downhill grade for the eastbound travel direction. The roadway has a speed limit of 45 mph (72 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear, but the roadway surface was reported to be wet. Vehicle 1, the 2009 Honda Fit 4-door hatchback, was being operated by the 66-year-old female driver (case occupant), in the eastbound travel lane. She was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted, side air bags (front outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling eastbound. Vehicle 2, a 2005 Chevrolet Malibu 4-door sedan, was being operated in the westbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to negotiate the left turning curve and continue traveling westbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 2 experienced a loss of control and entered the eastbound travel lane. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 2. Both vehicles are believed to have come to rest at or near the eastbound travel lane area, but their final rest positions are unknown. As a result of the impact, the driver's frontal air bag deployed for Vehicle 1. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver and right front passenger of Vehicle 2 were reported to be injured and transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but the extent of their injuries and treatments, if any, are unknown. Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.