Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 26-year old, male driver, of a 2007 Chrysler Sebring, who was involved in an oblique, narrow corner frontal impact. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred in the afternoon hours (daylight) of fall weekday, on a two-lane roadway. This roadway runs generally east and west and is mostly straight; however, leading into the impact area from the west, the roadway has a very slight left bending curve. The roadway is relatively level with a posted speed limit of 35 mph (56 km/h). At the time of the crash, it was raining and the roadway surface was wet. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Chrysler Sebring 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 26-year old male driver (case occupant), in the eastbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was noted to be unbelted, but the vehicle was equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, front seat back mounted side impact air bags and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling east. Vehicle 2, a 2012 Cadillac CTS 4-door sedan, was traveling westbound, approaching the crash area from the east. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling west. Crash: Eastbound traffic was coming to a stop direcly ahead of Vehicle 1 as Vehicle 2 approached from the east. In order to avoid striking the rear plane of an eastbound vehicle, the driver of Vehicle 1 braked and steered left; however, Vehicle 1 entered the westbound travel lane. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the front right corner area (extending down into the right front plane) of Vehicle 1. As a result, Vehicle 1 was rotated counterclockwise and partially departed the north edge of the roadway. Vehicle 1 came to rest straddling the north edge of the roadway and the westbound travel lane, facing a northerly direction. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 2 pivoted clockwise and came to rest mostly within the westbound travel lane, near Vehicle 1, but facing a northwesterly direction. Due to its impact with Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1’s frontal air bags deployed as did the front right side impact air bag and the right roof side rail curtain. Post-Crash: Both drivers were removed from their respective vehicles and transported, by land units, to local treatment facilities. The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to have sustained non-incapacitating injuries, but the extent of their injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.