Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 17-year-old male driver, of a 2008 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan, which was involved in a near side impact with a utility pole. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight), of a fall weekday, on a curved and graded section of a three-lane, east/west roadway. This roadway consists of one westbound lane, one eastbound lane and a dual left turn, center lane. The eastbound travel direction has a left turning curve and a downhill grade. The roadway has a speed limit of 30 mph (48 km/h). At the time of the crash, it was raining and the roadway surface was wet. Vehicle 1, the 2008 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 17-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the eastbound travel lane. He was restrained by his respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted side air bags (front outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the curved section of the roadway and continue traveling eastbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 negotiated the left turning curve, it experienced a loss of control. At some point during the control loss, the driver of Vehicle 1 over-steered right placing the vehicle in a clockwise rotation as it departed the roadway to the right. As Vehicle 1 departed the roadway, its left rear wheel struck a curb (event 1) before striking a utility pole with its left side plane (event 2). Vehicle 1 came to rest at the utility pole, facing a southerly direction. As a result of the pole impact, the driver's side hip/torso air bag deployed; however, it could not be determined if the left side rail curtain deployed due to the roof structure not being available at the time of the vehicle inspection (removed post crash). Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was extricated from the vehicle by responding emergency medical services personnel (EMS). He was subsequently transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.