Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 56-year old, female driver, of a 2011 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, who was involved in a far side impact with the frontal plane of a 2008 Nissan Altima. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred in the evening hours (dark, street lights present) of a winter weekday, at the intersection of a north/south trafficway and an east/west roadway. The northern leg of the intersection consists of four southbound through lanes and two left turn lanes, separated from four northbound lanes by a grass covered median. The southern leg of the intersection consists of four northbound through lanes and two left turn lanes, separated from five southbound lanes by a grass covered median. The intersection itself is controlled by overhead, standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals. The southbound roadway, north of the intersection is relatively level, while the northbound roadway, south of the intersection has an uphill grade leading into the intersection. The speed limit for the north/south roadway is 50 mph (80 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2011 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 56-year old female driver (case occupant) in the left turn lane of the southbound roadway, north of the intersection. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling east. The driver of Vehicle 1 was noted to be utilizing her 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, a driver's knee bolster air bag, front seat back mounted (outboard), side impact air bags and side rail curtains. Vehicle 2, a 2008 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan, was traveling northbound, in the far left northbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling north. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the right side plane (right front) of Vehicle 1. Vehicle 1 is suspected of rotating counterclockwise and unknown degree before coming to rest in the intersection. Vehicle 2 is believed to have been redirected to the northeast before coming to rest within the confines of the intersection. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's driver's retractor type pretensioner actuated and the driver's frontal and knee bolster air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver's of both vehicles were transported, with the driver of Vehicle 1 being transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center and the driver of Vehicle 2 being transported, by land unit, to a local hospital. The driver of Vehicle 1 was hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries, while the driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to have sustained non-incapacitating injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due damage sustained in the crash.