Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 28-year-old, male driver of a 2008 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan, which was involved in a severe frontal impact with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the late evening hours (dark) of a summer weekday, on two-lane, rural roadway. This north/south roadway is level, but has a left turning curve at the area of the crash, for the southbound travel direction. The speed limit for this roadway is 25 mph (40 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2008 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 28-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the southbound travel lane. He was in the process of negotiating the left turning curve and intended to continue traveling south. He was restrained by an available 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with retractor type pretensioner) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, side impact hip/torso air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. Crash: As Vehicle 1 negotiated the left turning curve, it is suspected, but unconfirmed, that it drifted slightly off the right edge of the roadway. The driver of Vehicle 1 over-steered left and subsequently departed the left side of the roadway. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck a large tree near the left roadside edge. Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise, approximately 180 degrees, off the tree and back into the roadway. Vehicle 1 came to rest in the center of the roadway, in close proximity to the struck tree, facing a northerly direction. As a result of the tree impact, the driver's frontal, side impact hip/torso and left side rail curtain air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle and transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized approximately 24 hours or less before being transferred to a regional trauma center for further evaluation and hospitalization with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due damage sustained in the crash.