Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 77-year-old, right front, female passenger, of a 2005 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a frontal collision with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision during the late afternoon hours (daylight), of a fall weekday, on a slightly curved and level roadway. This two-lane roadway primarily runs east and west, with a left turning curve for the westbound travel direction. The roadway has a speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The overall environment is rural. Vehicle 1, the 2005 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, was being operated by a 77-year-old male driver, in the westbound travel lane. Occupying the right front seating position was the 77-year-female case occupant. Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted, side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the slightly curved section of roadway and continue traveling westbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 traveled west, it departed the right side (north side) of the curved area of the roadway and subsequently struck two mail box posts with its frontal plane (events 1 & 2) and traversed a drainage gulley before striking a tree with its right side plane (event 3) and then another tree with its frontal plane (event 4). It is suspected that the right side rail curtain and the passenger's side impact torso air bag deployed during the impact with the first tree (event 3), while both the driver and passenger frontal air bags deployed upon impact with the second tree (event 4). After impacting the last tree, Vehicle 1 is suspected of rotating clockwise an unknown degree before coming to rest at the north roadside area. Post-Crash: Both the driver and right front passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center. The driver was treated and released, while the right front passenger (case occupant) was hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.