Case Focus: The focus of this case is on an 86-year-old, female driver of a 2005 Chevrolet Malibu 4-door sedan, which was involved in a head-on collision (offset) with a 2007 Kia Spectra 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the late afternoon hours (daylight) of a spring weekday, on a two-lane, north/south roadway, just south of a "T-type" intersection. This north/south roadway is straight, but has an uphill grade for the northbound travel direction, with a speed limit of 35 mph (56 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2005 Chevrolet Malibu 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 86-year-old female driver in the northbound travel lane. She is noted to have been utilizing her 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with redesigned frontal air bags, front seat-back mounted, side impact air bags and left and right side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling north. Vehicle 2, a 2007 Kia Spectra 4-door sedan, had just made a right turn onto the north/south roadway (from the eastbound travel direction of the intersecting roadway) and the driver intended to continue traveling southbound. Crash: As Vehicle 2 finished completing its right turn in order to travel southbound, it entered the northbound travel lane, while traveling south. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 in a head-on, offset type impact. Both vehicles came to rest at or near the impact area, with Vehicle 1 being pushed rearward and coming to rest facing a slight northwesterly direction, while Vehicle 2 came to rest facing a southerly direction. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be possibly injured, but was not transported. The extent of their injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due damage sustained in the crash.