Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 48-year old, female driver of a 2008 Mazda CX-9 compact utility vehicle, which was primarily involved in a frontal impact with the right side plane of a 2011 Chevrolet Tahoe large utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This four-vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours (daylight) of a summer weekday, on a three-lane, north/south roadway. This roadway is relatively straight with an uphill grade for the southbound travel direction. The roadway has a speed limit of 40 mph (64 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was cloudy and the roadway surface was wet. Vehicle 1, the 2008 Mazda CX-9 compact utility vehicle was being operated by the 48-year old female driver (case occupant) in the southbound travel lane, at an unknown distance behind Vehicle 2, but ahead of Vehicle 4. Occupying the right front seating position was a 44-year old female passenger. Both occupants were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling south. Vehicle 2, a 2007 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was traveling south, ahead of Vehicle 1. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling south. Vehicle 3, a 2011 Chevrolet Tahoe utility vehicle, was traveling north, approaching the crash area from the south. The driver of Vehicle 3 intended to continue traveling north. Vehicle 4, a 1989 Dodge Ram Van, was traveling south, some unknown distance behind Vehicle 1. The driver of Vehicle 4 intended to continue traveling south. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 2, while traveling southbound, drifted into the northbound travel lane. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 3. As a result, Vehicle 3 experienced a loss of control and entered the southbound travel lane while heading in a westerly direction. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 3. As a result, Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise almost 180 degrees. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 4 struck the front right corner area of Vehicle 1 (minor impact) before both vehicles came to rest in the right southbound lane (acceleration lane), with Vehicle 1 facing a northwesterly direction and Vehicle 4 facing a southerly direction. Vehicle 3 came to rest in the right southbound travel lane, facing a southerly direction, while Vehicle 1 came to rest in the northbound travel lane, facing a southerly direction. As a result of its impact with Vehicle 3, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The right front passenger of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, treated and released with minor injuries. The driver of Vehicle 3 was also transported to a local hospital with non-incapacitating injuries. The extent of their injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. The drivers of Vehicle 2 and 4 were reported to be uninjured. Vehicles 1, 2 and 3 were towed due to damage sustained in the crash. Vehicle 4 was driven from the scene by its driver.