Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 73-year-old, male driver of a 2013 Ford C-max 4-door hatchback, which was involved in a frontal collision with the right side plane of a 2007 Volkswagen Rabbit/GTI 2-door hatchback. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours of a spring weekday, on a straight portion of a two-lane, rural roadway. This level roadway runs primarily north and south and consists of two travel lanes (one for each direction), with a speed limit of 45 mph (72 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2013 Ford C-max 4-door hatchback, was being operated by the 73-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, a driver's knee bolster air bag, seat back mounted side air bags (front outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 2007 Volkswagen Rabbit/GTI 2-door hatchback, was traveling northbound, approaching a slight right bend in the roadway, south of the crash area. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling north. Crash: As Vehicle 2 approached the bend in the roadway, for unknown reasons (possible left lane departure) it experienced a loss of control and the driver initiated a right steering maneuver and then a left over-steering maneuver. At this time, Vehicle 2 entered a right side leading yaw and crossed over into the southbound travel lane and towards the west shoulder area of the roadway. The driver of Vehicle 1, seeing the approach of Vehicle 2, braked and steered right towards the west shoulder area, but was unsuccessful in avoiding an impact. The frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 2. The force of the impact pushed Vehicle 1 backwards as it rotated clockwise and off the road, coming to rest at the west roadside, facing a northwesterly direction. Vehicle 2 rotated clockwise and came to rest just west and next to Vehicle 1, facing a northerly direction. As a result of the frontal impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag and knee bolster air bag deployed. The right side curtain of Vehicle 1 also deployed as well during the crash. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver and three passengers of Vehicle 2 died at the scene. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.