This 28-year-old male case occupant was the belted driver of a 2010 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a severe, 03 o'clock, far side impact by the frontal plane of a 2002 Ford Ranger compact pick-up truck. The case occupant was sitting upright in a bucket seat, which was found adjusted to the mid-to-rear seat track position. At the time of the crash, the case occupant was 170 cm (67 inches) in height and weighed 64 kg (141 pounds). During the impact, the case occupant was projected mostly right in reference to the vehicle, as right side components of the vehicle interior intruded laterally inward. The case occupant contacted the center console with his lower right leg (cracked and deformed) as his right hip contacted the center console armrest area (deformed and broken) along with the seat belt buckle housing. As the case occupant's right hip was restrained by the lap portion of the seat belt webbing and buckle housing, his upper torso slipped sideways, toward the intruded right front seat back and right front door. The case occupant likely contacted the right front seat back (scuffed and bent head restraint / seat back fabric torn) before contacting the portions of the right front door panel with his head (deformed at various locations). Subsequent to the main impact, the case vehicle was pushed up against a guardrail with its left side plane, likely causing the occupant to move back toward the left (along with rebounding from the main impact). The case occupant came to rest within the first row seating area with his pelvis and lower extremities in the case occupant's general seating area, but his post-crash posture is unknown. The case occupant's injuries include a subarachnoid hemorrhage, contusion of the brain stem, contusion of the cerebrum, an atlanto-occipital fracture/dislocation, a right scalp contusion and a left eyelid abrasion, all due to probable contact with the intruded right front door panel or possibly the right front seat back. Bilateral pneumothoraxes, a lung contusion and a diaphragm laceration were probably due to contact with the right front seat backrest or possibly the center console armrest area. However, a right pubic ramus fracture was probably due to contact with the lap belt/buckle housing, though contact with the center console armrest is still a possibility. An abdomen contusion, a mesentery contusion and fractures of the right, L1 through L3 transverse processes were all probably due to contact with the seat belt webbing or flexion about the belt. A right lower leg abrasion was due to probable center console contact, while a left back contusion was due to contact with the case occupant's seat back side bolster as he moved right. Finally, a left upper arm contusion and a left elbow abrasion were both due to unknown contact sources. The maximum Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS) for this case occupant was MAIS 5.