Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 59-year-old, female driver of a 2007 Toyota FJ Cruiser compact utility vehicle, which was involved in an offset frontal impact with the frontal plane of a 2002 Chevrolet Silverado C1500 pick-up truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight), of a spring weekday, on a two-lane, north/south roadway. This roadway has right turning curve and a positive uphill grade for the southbound travel direction, leading into the crash area. The northbound travel direction, leading into the crash area, is straight, with a negative downhill grade. The speed limit is 50 mph (80 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the roadway surface was dry. The overall environment is rural. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Toyota FJ Cruiser compact utility vehicle was being operated by the 59-year-old female driver (case occupant), in the northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted side air bags (front outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling northbound. Vehicle 2, the 2002 Chevrolet Silverado C1500 pick-up truck, was traveling southbound. The driver of Vehicle 2 was in the process of negotiating the right turning curved section of the roadway. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to negotiate the curved section of the roadway and continue traveling south. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 2 drifted left and entered the northbound travel lane, traveling south. The driver of Vehicle 1, seeing the approach of Vehicle 2, steered right toward the east shoulder area. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 in an offset fashion. Due to the impact, Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise and departed the east side of the road and came to rest in a corn field, facing a westerly direction. Vehicle 2 also rotated counterclockwise out of the impact and came to rest in the southbound travel lane, south of the impact area, facing a southwesterly direction. As a result of the frontal impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed, as did the driver's side torso air bag and the left roof side rail curtain. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 expired at the scene. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.