Case Focus: The focus of this case is on an 83-year-old, male driver of a 2006 Honda Accord 2-door sedan, which was involved in a frontal collision with the back plane of the trailer portion of a tractor-trailer combination. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the late morning hours (daylight), of a spring weekday, in the northbound travel lanes, at the southern leg of an intersection. The northbound travel direction consists of three northbound through lanes and a dedicated right turn lane. This roadway has an uphill grade approaching the intersection from the south and is relatively straight. The speed limit for this section of roadway is 55 mph (89 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Access into and through the intersection is controlled by overhead, standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals. Vehicle 1, the 2006 Honda Accord 2-door sedan, was being operated by the 83-year-old male driver (case occupant), in the center, northbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the south and directly behind Vehicle 2. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted side air bags (front outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling northbound. Vehicle 2, an unknown Volvo tractor, pulling one trailer, was coming to a stop, in the center northbound travel lane, at the southern leg of the intersection. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to stop for the traffic signal and eventually continue traveling north. Crash: For unknown reasons, as Vehicle 1 approached from the south, it struck and slightly under rode the back plane of Vehicle 2's trailer. Vehicle 1 came to rest, in the center northbound travel lane, facing a northerly direction. As a result of the frontal impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash, while Vehicle 2 was driven away from the scene by its driver.