Case Focus: The focus of this case is on an 81 year old, female driver, of a 2006 Chrysler Town & Country minivan, which was involved in a frontal collision subsequent to a rear impact. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This three-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight), of a winter weekday, on a two-lane north/south roadway, at the entrance of a private driveway. The roadway is level, but does have a slight right turning curve for the southbound travel direction, just prior to the crash area (roadway straightens). The speed limit is 50 mph (80 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The overall environment is rural. Vehicle 1, the 2006 Chrysler Town & Country minivan was stopped in the southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1, the 81-year old female driver intended to turn left into a private driveway. Occupying the right front seating position was an 81-year old male passenger. Both the driver and passenger of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point, lap/shoulder belts. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags and a driver's deployable knee bolster panel air bag. Vehicle 2, a 2004 Ford F-350 super duty pick-up truck was traveling southbound, approaching the crash area from the north. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling south. Vehicle 3, a 2012 GMC Canyon pick-up truck, was traveling northbound, approaching the crash area from the south. The driver of Vehicle 3 intended to continue traveling north. Crash: For unknown reason, Vehicle 2 struck the rear plane (back right) of Vehicle 1. As a result, Vehicle 1 was pushed forward, while turning left, into the northbound travel lane. At this time, Vehicle 3's frontal plane struck the right front plane of Vehicle 1. Vehicle 1 came to rest in the northbound travel lane, facing a northeasterly direction, while Vehicle 3 came to rest off the east roadside edge, facing a northerly direction and Vehicle 2 came to rest in the southbound shoulder area, facing a southerly direction. As a result of the impact with Vehicle 3 (event 2), Vehicle 1's frontal impact air bags deployed as did the driver's deployable knee bolster panel air bag. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries, while the right front passenger was also transported to a regional trauma center and treated and released. The driver's of Vehicle 2 and Vehicle 3 were transported to a regional trauma center, but the extent of their injuries and treatments, if any, are unknown. All three vehicles were towed form the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.