Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 36-year old, female driver (1st trimester), of a 2008 Honda Accord, which was primarily involved in a narrow corner, frontal collision with the frontal plane of a 2007 Ford F-150 pick-up truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This five-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight), of a fall weekday, on a north/south trafficway. At the area of the crash, the trafficway consists of two northbound lanes and three southbound lanes. A concrete barrier wall separates the two directions, however; at the area of the crash, there is an opening in the barrier to allow traffic to use the opposing travel lanes when authorized. Non-fixed traffic cones occupy this area when the opposing travel lanes are not being utilized. The southbound travel direction has a right turning curve with a downhill grade. The speed limit for the trafficway is 50 mph (80 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2008 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 36-year old female driver (case occupant), in the far left, southbound travel lane, approaching the crash area from the north. Occupying the right front seating position was a 26-year old male passenger. Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted side air bags (front outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 2007 Ford F-150 pick-up truck was traveling in the left northbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling north. Vehicle 3, a 1992 Chevrolet Geo Prizm 4-door sedan, was traveling in the left southbound travel lane, some distance ahead of Vehicle 1. Vehicle 4, a 2009 Nissan Versa 4-door hatchback, was traveling in the left southbound travel lane, some distance behind Vehicle 1. Vehicle 5, a 1998 Dodge Grand Caravan minivan, was traveling in the center southbound travel lane, some distance behind Vehicle 4. Crash: As Vehicle 2 traveled north, it drifted right and across the right northbound travel lane and departed the roadway to the right. Vehicle 2 subsequently struck a wall with its right side plane (event 1). Vehicle 2 then traveled back across the northbound travel lanes and departed the roadway to the left, crossing through the gap in the barrier wall (non-fixed traffic cones - no meaningful deceleration). Vehicle 2 entered the left southbound travel lane and struck Vehicle 3's left side plane with its frontal plane (event 2). Vehicle 2's frontal plane subsequently struck the front left corner of Vehicle 1 (event 3). Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise out of the impact and traveled across the southbound lanes and eventually came to rest against a guardrail with its back plane (event 4). At this time, Vehicle 2's frontal plane came into contact with Vehicle 4's left side plane (event 5). As a result, Vehicle 4 was redirected partially into the center southbound lane where its right side plane was struck by Vehicle 5's frontal plane (event 6). All vehicles came to rest in relative close proximity to each other. As a result of the crash, all of Vehicle 1's air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver and passenger of Vehicle 1, as well as the driver of Vehicle 2, were transported, by land units, to a regional trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries, while the passenger of Vehicle 1 was treated and released with minor injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to have sustained non-incapacitating injuries. The drivers of Vehicle 3, 4 and 5 were reported to be uninjured. All five vehicles were reportedly towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.