This 56-year-old female case occupant was the belted driver of a 2012 Subaru Forester compact utility vehicle, which was involved in a moderate, 10 o'clock, near side impact with the frontal plane of a 2009 Hyundai Santa Fe compact utility vehicle. The case occupant was sitting upright in a bucket seat, which was found in the rear seat track position. At the time of the crash, the case occupant was 173 cm (68 inches) in height and weighed 115 kg (254 pounds). Due to the impact, the left side curtain, the frontal air bag and the side hip/torso air bag all deployed for this case occupant. During the impact, the case occupant was projected mostly left and somewhat forward, in reference to the vehicle, as she engaged her seat belt webbing. The case occupant's head likely made contact with the deployed side curtain air bag, but still contacted the left A-pillar based upon impact configuration and kinematics. Her left hip contacted the rear lower quadrant of the door panel via the deployed side hip/torso air bag as her upper torso (chest) contacted the forward upper quadrant of the door panel. Based upon injury, her left lower leg contacted the intruding door panel at the forward lower quadrant, with her left foot likely locked in place at the toe pan. The case occupant came to rest within her respective seating area, where he was found by responding emergency medical services personnel, though her post-crash posture is unknown. The case occupant's injuries include facial contusions, a cerebellum subdural hematoma, an odontoid fracture and C2-C3 facet fractures, all due to probable contact with the left A-pillar or possibly the top of the left door sill. Fractures of the left 3rd through 8th ribs, a left humerus fracture and a left upper arm contusion were the probable result of contact with the forward upper quadrant of the left door panel with her chest and arm, respectively. A left ilium fracture was probably due to contact with the rear lower quadrant of the door panel via the deployed side hip/torso air bag. A left tibia/fibula fracture was the probable result of lower leg contact with the intruding forward lower quadrant of the door panel, while the case occupant's left foot was engaged with the toe pan. A left forearm contusion was the possible result of contact with the left instrument panel, while bilateral lower leg contusions were the possible result of contact with the door panel. Finally, a right thigh contusion was the result of an unknown contact source. The maximum Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS) for this case occupant was MAIS 3.