Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 66-year old, female driver, of a 2007 Saturn Ion 4-door sedan, which was involved in a near side impact (left side), with the frontal plane of a 2008 Chevrolet Uplander minivan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the pre-midday hours (daylight), of a late winter weekday, on a slightly curved and graded, two-lane roadway. This bituminous roadway runs north and south and has paved shoulders at the east and west edges. The roadway curves slightly right for the northbound travel direction and has speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Saturn Ion 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 66-year old female driver (case occupant), in the east shoulder area, heading north. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with frontal air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to make a U-turn and head southbound. Vehicle 2, a 2008 Chevrolet Uplander minivan, was traveling north in the northbound travel lane, approaching Vehicle 1 from the south. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling north. Crash: As Vehicle 1 initiated its U-turn, the driver of Vehicle 2 braked and steered left in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid a collision. Vehicle 2's frontal plane struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1, in the southbound travel lane (event 1). Vehicle 2 came to rest in the southbound travel lane, facing a northwesterly direction, as Vehicle 1 rotated somewhat counterclockwise as it departed the west edge of the roadway. Vehicle 1 came to rest at the west roadside, facing a southerly direction. There were no air bag deployments for Vehicle 1 due to the impact configuration and the presence of only frontal air bags. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to have sustained incapacitating injuries and was transported, by land unit to a local hospital. The extent of their injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.