Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 47-year-old female driver of a 2010 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, which was involved in a severe, offset frontal impact (head-on) with the frontal plane of a 1997 Dodge Ram pick-up truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours (dark), of a fall weekday, on curved and graded, two-lane, north/south roadway. This bituminous roadway consists of series of curves ("S-type") at the crash area with notable downhill grade for the northbound travel direction. The overall environment is rural in nature with minor to no shoulder areas. At the time of the crash, the weather was reported to be clear, but the roadway surface was wet due to a previous rain. The speed limit for the roadway is 35 mph (56 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2010 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 47-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt while the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, seat back mounted side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 had just negotiated a right turning curve and was entering a section of roadway where the roadway curved to the left. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the series of curves and continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 1997 Dodge Ram pick-up truck, was traveling northbound, approaching an increase in the downhill grade and a noticeable right turning curve. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to negotiate the series of curves and continue traveling northbound. Crash: As Vehicle 2 traveled north, the driver applied the brakes in order to negotiate the curved and graded section of roadway, but skidded on the wet roadway surface and entered the southbound lane as Vehicle 1 approached from the north. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 in an offset fashion (with some obliqueness as well). Vehicle 1 pushed somewhat backwards and off the west roadway edge as it rotated counterclockwise. Vehicle 1 came to rest at the west side of the roadway, facing a southerly direction. Vehicle 2 came to rest in the roadway straddling the southbound travel lane and facing a westerly direction. As a result of the crash, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed as did both the left and right side rail curtains. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured and was not transported from the scene. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.