Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 38-year-old female driver of a 2011 Honda Pilot utility vehicle, which was primarily involved in a rollover event after an initial right side plane impact with the back left corner of tractor-trailer combination (tractor pulling one tank-trailer). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the pre-midday hours (daylight), of a summer weekday, on a two-lane northbound roadway. This northbound roadway consists of two travel lanes and is separated from a two-lane southbound roadway by a grass median. At the crash area, a railroad crossing is present, with train tracks crossing the northbound roadway at a slightly less than 90-degree angle. The northbound roadway is straight and level and at the time of the crash the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The speed limit for this section of roadway is 55 mph (89 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2011 Honda Pilot utility vehicle, was being operated by the 38-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the right northbound travel lane. Occupying the left, center and right rear seating positions were a 6-year-old male child, a 4-year-old male child and a 1-year-old female child, respectively. All three child passengers were restrained in child safety seats (forward facing for the left and center passengers and rear facing for the right rear passenger, respectively). The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by a 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted side air bags (front outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling northbound. Vehicle 2, a 2013 Freightliner Cascadia 113 series tractor, pulling a tank-trailer, was in the right northbound travel lane. Vehicle 2 had just stopped, south of the railroad crossing, before continuing northbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 approached the crash area from the south, the driver noticed the stopped Vehicle 2 in the right northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 braked and then steered left to avoid a collision, but was unsuccessful. As Vehicle 1 was steered to the left, the right side plane of Vehicle 1 struck the back left corner area of the tanker unit. At this time, Vehicle 1 began to yaw/rotate in the left northbound travel lane (left side leading). Vehicle 1 crossed the railroad crossing area and then overturned as it departed thr roadway to the left. Vehicle 1 rolled/tumbled left, six-quarter turns, before coming to rest on its roof, in the north median area, facing a southeasterly direction. As a result of this crash, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed, as did the driver's seat back mounted side bag, along with the right front seat back mounted side air bag and both side rail curtains. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the overturned vehicle and transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with serious injuries. The three child passengers of Vehicle 1 were transported, by air unit, to a regional pediatric trauma center and were treated and released with minor injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. Vehicle 2 (tractor and tank unit) were driven from the scene by its driver.