Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 28-year-old female driver of a 2008 Volkswagen Jetta 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a severe, near-side impact by the frontal plane of a 1995 Freightliner Luverne heavy/medium truck (configured as a fire engine). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This three-vehicle collision occurred during the late morning hours (daylight), of a summer weekday, at the intersection of a two-lane, east/west, residential roadway and a five-lane north/south roadway. The east/west roadway intersects the north/south roadway on the east side, forming a "T-type" intersection. The north/south roadway consists of two-lanes for each travel direction with a mutual two-way center turn lane. The east/west residential roadway is straight, with an uphill grade leading into the intersection. The north/south roadway is straight, with an uphill grade for the northbound travel direction. The speed limit for the residential roadway is 25 mph (40 km/h), while the north/south roadway has a speed limit of 40 mph (64 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2008 Volkswagen Jetta 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 28-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the westbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the east. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt while the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, seat back mounted side hip/torso air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 1995 Freightliner Luverne fire truck, was traveling northbound, in response mode, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling northbound. Vehicle 3, a 2005 Honda Pilot utility vehicle, was stopped in the left, northbound travel lane, just north of the intersection. The driver of Vehicle 3 was stopped in traffic, awaiting a change in traffic signals, with the intention to continue traveling north. Crash: As Vehicle 2 traveled north, it entered the two-way left turn lane, with the intention of passing stopped traffic in the northbound travel lanes; however, Vehicle 1 initiated its left turn, through an opening in the stopped traffic. Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 subsequently struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1, in the center-turn lane area of the intersection (event 1). Vehicle 1 was pushed in a northeasterly direction as Vehicle 2 veered toward the east roadside, with the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 scraping along the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 2). As Vehicle 1 pivoted out of the impact, its back plane struck the left side plane of Vehicle 3 (event 3). As Vehicle 2 continued towards the east roadside, it struck the back plane of Vehicle 3 with its frontal plane (event 4). Vehicle 2 eventually came to rest at the northeast corner of the intersection, facing an easterly direction. Vehicle 3 came to rest in the right northbound travel lane, facing a northwesterly direction. As Vehicle 1 came to rest, it's right side plane (right rear corner) struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 3 (event 5). Vehicle 1 came to rest, straddling the left northbound travel lane and the two-way left turn lane, facing a southwesterly direction. As a result of the initial left side plane impact (event 1), Vehicle 1's driver's seat back mounted side hip/torso air bag and left side rail curtain air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with moderate to severe injuries. The right front passenger of Vehicle 2 was also transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and treated and released. The driver of Vehicle 2 and two other occupants were reported to be uninjured. The driver of Vehicle 3 was reported to be uninjured. All three vehicles were towed due to damage sustained in the crash.