Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 66-year-old right front female passenger of a 2011 GMC Sierra 2500 (heavy duty) pick-up truck, which was primarily involved in a narrow corner, frontal impact with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the pre-midnight hour (dark, street lights present) of an early fall weekday, on the eastbound section of an east/west trafficway, near an intersection though the intersection did not play a part in the crash. The eastbound roadway, as it approaches the intersection from the west, consists of four travel lanes; two through lanes, one left turn lane and a right turn lane. Beyond the intersection, the roadway consists of two through lanes and a dedicated merge lane. The eastbound roadway is separated from the westbound roadway by a grass median, populated with trees. The eastbound roadway is straight and level with a speed limit of 55 mph (89 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2011 GMC Sierra 2500HD large pick-up truck, was being operated by a 59-year-old male driver in the left, eastbound through lane. Occupying the right front seating position was the 66-year-old female case occupant. Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, seat back mounted, hip/torso side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling eastbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 traveled east and through the intersection, it drifted left and eventually departed the roadway at the east median edge. Vehicle 1 entered the grass covered median traveling east. Vehicle 1 struck the far edge of the ditch/culvert (event 1) with its lower frontal plane (including undercarriage and wheels) and subsequently struck a tree with its front right corner area (event 2). Vehicle 1 pivoted slightly clockwise before striking another tree with its left side plane at the driver's door area (event 3) and snagging/impacting a concrete culvert drainage pipe with its left rear corner area (event 4) before coming to rest. Vehicle 1 came to rest in the median, wedged in between the two trees, facing an easterly direction. As a result of the crash, the frontal air bags deployed, as did the driver's hip/torso side bag and both side rail curtains. Post-Crash: Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was treated and released, but the right front passenger of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with moderate to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.