Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 28-year old male driver of a 2013 Chevrolet Cruze 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a moderate, offset frontal impact, with the rear plane of a 2007 Cadillac Escalade utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This three-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight), of a summer weekend, at the southern leg of an intersection. The intersection is the junction of a north/south trafficway and a three-lane east/west roadway. The east/west roadway intersects the north/south trafficway on the east side forming a "T-type" intersection. The intersection itself is controlled by overhead, standard electric tri-colored traffic signals. The northbound roadway, leading into the intersection (southern leg) is composed of two northbound through lanes and a right turn lane. A grass median separates the northbound roadway from the southbound roadway. The northbound roadway is relatively straight and level with a speed limit of 55 mph (89 km/h). At the time of the crash, the roadway surface was dry and the weather was clear. Vehicle 1, the 2013 Chevrolet Cruze 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 28-year-old male driver (case occupant), in the left northbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 1 was unrestrained, but the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, front knee bolster air bags, seat back mounted side air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling north. Vehicle 2, a 2007 Cadillac Escalade utility vehicle, was in the left northbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the south and directly ahead of Vehicle 1. The driver of Vehicle 2 was slowing down due to slow moving traffic directly ahead and intended to continue traveling north. Vehicle 3, a 2013 Ford Explorer utility vehicle, was in the right northbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 3 was slowing down due to slow moving traffic directly ahead and intended to continue traveling north. Crash: As Vehicle 1 approached the intersection from the south, the driver of Vehicle 1 became aware of the slowing traffic ahead and attempted to brake and steer right in order to avoid a collision, but was unsuccessful. At this time, the frontal plane (front left) of Vehicle 1 struck the rear plane of Vehicle 2 (back right / event 1). Vehicle 1 continued moving forward and subsequently struck the left side plane of Vehicle 3 with its right side plane (right front / event 2) before coming to rest in the northbound travel lanes, facing a northerly direction. As a result of the impact with Vehicle 1, Vehicle 2 was pushed forward and left before coming to rest in the northbound roadway, facing a northwesterly direction. Vehicle 3 eventually came to rest in the right northbound through lane, facing north. As a result of the frontal impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed, as did the driver's knee bolster air bag and both roof side rail curtains. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with moderate injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to have possible injuries, but was not transported from the scene. The driver of Vehicle 3 and two passengers were reported to be uninjured and Vehicle 3 was driven away from the crash scene. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.