Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 58-year-old male driver of a 2008 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, which was involved in a moderate, head-on (corner to corner) impact with the frontal plane of a 2010 Volkswagen Jetta 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (dawn), of a fall weekday, on a curved, two-lane roadway, within a rural area. This roadway runs generally east and west, is level and has right turning curve for the westbound travel direction. The speed limit for the roadway is 40 mph (64 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2008 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 58-year old male driver (case occupant) in the westbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, seat back mounted hip/torso side bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the right turning curve and continue traveling westbound. Vehicle 2, a 2010 Volkswagen Jetta 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound, approaching the crash area from the west. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to negotiate the left turning curve and continue traveling eastbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, as Vehicle 2 traveled eastbound it entered the westbound travel lane at the area of the curve. At this time, the front left corner of Vehicle 2 struck the front left corner of Vehicle 1 (narrow corner to corner impact). Both vehicles rotated counterclockwise out of the impact, with Vehicle 1 departing the north side of the roadway and coming to rest, off road, on a small embankment, just west of the impact area, facing a southwesterly direction. Vehicle 2 came to rest in the eastbound travel lane, east of the impact area, facing a southwesterly direction. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed as did the driver's hip/torso side bag and left side rail curtain. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land and air units, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was also transported to the regional trauma center, by land and air units, but was treated and released with non-incapacitating injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.