Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 37-year-old female driver of a 2013 Honda CR-V compact utility vehicle, which was involved in a severe, frontal impact, with under ride, to the rear plane of a cargo trailer. The single, Great Dane cargo trailer was attached to a parked 2003 Peterbilt model 387 heavy/medium truck (tractor-trailer combination). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hour (daylight), of a fall weekday, at the interchange area of a north/south trafficway. The southbound roadway of the north/south trafficway is relatively straight, with a downhill grade, but curves to the left at the interchange area. The southbound roadway at the interchange consists of four southbound through lanes and a dedicated deceleration lane for traffic heading westbound. At the time of the crash, it was raining heavily with low visibility and wet roadway surfaces. The speed limit for the roadway is 65 mph (105 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2013 Honda CR-V compact utility vehicle, was being operated by the 37-year old female driver (case occupant) in the far right southbound through lane. Occupying the right front seating position was a 30-year old female passenger. Both the driver and right front passenger of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, seat back mounted side torso bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to take the westbound exit at the interchange area and continue traveling westbound. Vehicle 2, a parked 2003 Peterbilt model 387 heavy/medium truck, pulling one trailer, was parked on the paved shoulder area at the interchange area (shoulder area located between the westbound exit ramp and the eastbound exit ramp). Crash: For unknown reasons, as Vehicle 1 traveled south, it missed and traveled past the westbound exit ramp deceleration lane while trying to change lanes to the right. Vehicle 1 departed the roadway to the right, entering the west shoulder area of the interchange. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck and under rode the back plane of Vehicle 2's cargo trailer. Vehicle 1 came to rest at the impact area, as did Vehicle 2. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags, side torso air bags and roof side rail curtains deployed. Post-Crash: Both the driver and passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized. The driver sustained minor to serious injuries, while the passenger of Vehicle 1 sustained minor to moderate injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was not injured. Vehicle 1 was towed due to damage sustainedwhile Vehicle 2 and its trailer were driven from the scene.