The case occupant is a 5 year old female third row left side passenger, seated in a belt positioning booster seat and using the available manual lap/shoulder belt. She was involved in a crash with multiple front and left side impacts and she sustained serious injuries. This single vehicle crash occurred at dusk, under clear weather and dry roadway conditions. Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Chevrolet Astro minivan, was southbound in lane one of a two lane, two way state highway. The asphalt travel lanes are straight and level, have no curbs, and there are trees, shrubs and rocks present on both sides of the roadway. As V1 was traveling south, the driver drifted out of her lane and departed the roadway to the right onto loose gravel. The driver of V1 steered left and returned to her travel lane, but overcorrected and began to fishtail. V1 traveled into the northbound lane, then veered back to the southbound lane, then traveled into the northbound lane again. V1 continued forward and departed the roadway to the left. V1 traveled approximately ten meters off the roadway and then V1's front undercarriage impacted a large slanted rock, resulting in minor damage. V1 climbed up the slanted rock and then its front impacted a tree, resulting in the deployment of V1's dual front air bags. The tree tilted as V1 continued forward. Then V1's front right impacted another tree, resulting in moderate damage. V1 began to rotate clockwise while tilting to the left. While tilted, V1's left side impacted two trees. These were non-horizontal impacts that resulted in moderate damage and significant passenger compartment intrusion. Then V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to final rest, facing southeast. V1 was towed due to damage. The case occupant is the third row left side passenger, a 5 year old female, who was seated in a belt positioning booster seat and secured with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. There are no air bags available in this seating position. This passenger sustained serious injuries and was transported to an outside hospital and later transferred to the trauma center. The driver is a 63 year old female, who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. Her steering column mounted front air bag deployed during the crash. She sustained injuries, but her treatment status is not known. There was a 34 year old female occupant seated in the front right position. She was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt and her mid instrument panel mounted frontal air bag deployed during the crash. She was reportedly not injured. In the second row left seating position, there was a 2 year old male seated in an unknown type of child safety seat. He was slightly injured but his treatment status is not known. In the second row center seating position there was a 5 month old female child, secured in an infant child safety seat. She was reportedly not injured. In the second row right seating position there was a 7 year old female occupant seated in an unknown type of child safety seat. She was reportedly not injured. In the third row right seating position there was a 4 year old female, secured in an unknown type of child safety seat. She was also reportedly not injured.