This frontal crash case occupant is a 56 year old male driver, restrained with a manual lap/shoulder belt, with a frontal air bag deployment and who sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred during daylight hours under clear weather and dry roadway conditions. Vehicle one (V1), a 2009 Mini Cooper two door hatchback, was northbound in lane three of a five lane, one way interstate freeway. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Ford F250 large pickup, was northbound in lane one, approaching V1's location. In the area where the crash occurred, the concrete travel lanes are straight with an uphill grade, with a jersey barrier bordering the west side of the lanes and a guardrail to the east. In one section of the precrash area, lanes four and five separate to accommodate an overpass support column. As V2 was traveling north, the driver lost control of the vehicle and departed his lane to the left. V2 continued across lanes two, three and four, traveled into the gore point separating lanes four and five, and V2's front struck an impact attenuator. V2 rotated counterclockwise across lanes three and four while its back end was partially in the air. V2 was now slightly ahead of V1 and V1's front hood and windshield area impacted V2's undercarriage, resulting in the actuation of V1's driver seat belt buckle pretensioner and the deployment of his frontal air bag. V1 traveled a short distance north and came to final rest still in the freeway travel lanes. V2 continued rotating counterclockwise, traveled towards the east shoulder and then the front of V2 impacted the guardrail. V2 came to final rest on the east shoulder, facing northeast. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant is the driver of V1, a 56 year old male, who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His seat belt buckle pretensioner actuated and his steering column mounted frontal air bag deployed during the crash. This driver sustained serious injuries and was transported to an outside hospital. He was transported to the trauma center early the next morning and was hospitalized for two days. There were no other occupants in the vehicle. The driver of V2 was not injured.