This case occupant is a 24 year old male driver, not wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, who was involved in a moderate rollover collision involving multiple impacts. The left and right side curtains deployed during the crash and this occupant sustained serious injuries. This single vehicle crash occurred in darkness, under rainy weather and wet roadway conditions. Vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Toyota Tacoma compact pickup, was eastbound in lane one of a two lane, two way state highway. The asphalt travel lanes are straight and level, with a drainage ditch present on the north side of the roadway. As V1 was traveling east, the driver changed lanes to the left to overtake a slower vehicle traveling ahead of him. V1 traveled into the westbound lane and passed the non-contact vehicle, but then the driver lost control and V1 began to go into a clockwise rotation. While still rotating, V1 departed the roadway to the left and the left side of V1 impacted a small diameter metal newspaper box post. V1 continued traveling off the roadway and across a private residential driveway. As V1 got to the east side of the driveway, its left tires dropped off the edge into loose gravel, and V1 began to rollover to the left. V1 completed several quarter turns and then the right side of V1 impacted a cluster of vine maple trees, resulting in the deployment of the left and right side curtain air bags. V1 continued rolling over and the top of V1's pickup bed impacted a pole and then a cluster of vine maple trees, both resulting in minor damage. Then the back of V1 impacted both a small and large tree, resulting in moderate damage. In total, V1 rolled seven quarter turns and came to final rest on its right side, facing southwest, with part of the vehicle submerged in drainage ditch water. V1 was towed due to damage. The case occupant is the driver of V1, a 24 year old male, who was not restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. The left and right roof side rail mounted curtain air bags both deployed during the crash. This driver sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center where he was hospitalized for six days. There were no other occupants in the vehicle.