This three vehicle crash involves two case occupants in the same vehicle. The first case occupant is a 54 year old female driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, involved in a moderate frontal collision with frontal and knee air bag deployments. The second case occupant is a 52 year old male front right passenger who was wearing the manual lap/shoulder belt and also had frontal and knee air bag deployments. Both sustained serious injuries and were hospitalized at the trauma center. This crash occurred during evening hours in darkness on a two lane, two way roadway. At the time of the crash, there were clear weather conditions and dry travel lanes. In the area where the crash occurred, the asphalt lanes are level and curve to the left for southbound vehicles. There are paved shoulders present on both sides of the roadway. Vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Lexus IS250 four door sedan, was southbound in the southbound lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 BMW 525 four door sedan, was traveling north in the northbound lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 2009 Honda Civic hybrid four door sedan, was traveling south ahead of V1. As V2 approached the curved section of roadway, V2 departed its lane, crossed the center lane lines and the front of V2 sideswiped the left side of V3. V2 continued a short distance north and the front of V2 impacted the front of V1, resulting in the actuation of V1's front row seat belt retractor pretensioners and the deployment of the dual frontal and knee air bags. V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to final rest on the west shoulder, facing northeast. V2 rotated counterclockwise and came to final rest facing northwest in the roadway. V3 came to final rest facing south in the southbound lane and was driven from the scene. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. The first case occupant in V1 is the 54 year old female driver who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. Her seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and her steering column mounted frontal air bag and bottom instrument panel mounted knee air bag both deployed during the crash. She sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. The second case occupant is the 52 year old male front right passenger who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and his instrument panel mounted frontal air bag and bottom instrument panel mounted knee air bag both deployed. Both case occupants sustained serious injuries and were taken to the trauma center for treatment. The drivers of V2 and V3 reportedly had minor injuries.