This case occupant is a 55 year old female second row right side passenger, who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, and who was involved in a moderate frontal crash, followed by a secondary minor right side impact. This passenger sustained serious injuries and was hospitalized at the trauma center. This crash occurred during the early morning pre-dawn hours on a two lane, two way north-south roadway with parking lanes present on both sides of the street. In the area where the crash occurred, the northbound asphalt travel lane has an uphill grade and curves to the left before straightening out. At the time of the crash it was dark with overhead street lights, the roadway was dry, and there were clear weather conditions. Vehicle one (V1), a 2008 BMW 328i two door coupe, was traveling north in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2013 Jeep Grand Cherokee large utility vehicle, was illegally parked and unoccupied in the east parking lane, just north of V1's location. As the driver of V1 negotiated the curve in the roadway, V1 began to move out of its travel lane to the right. V1 crossed over a bike lane and traveled into the parking lane and then the front of V1 impacted the back of V2, resulting in the deployment of V1's frontal and side curtain air bags. V1 underrode V2's back end and pushed V2 in a northwesterly direction. V2 came to final rest in the northbound travel lane, facing northwest. After striking V2, V1 continued north and its right rear sideswiped a guardrail adjacent to the east parking lane, resulting in minor damage. V1 came to final rest in the parking lane, facing north. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. The case occupant in V1 is a 55 year old female second row right side passenger who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. Her right roof side rail mounted curtain air bag deployed during the crash. She sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center where she was hospitalized for three days. The driver, seated in the front left seat, was a 61 year old male who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His steering column mounted frontal and left roof side rail mounted curtain air bag deployed. He sustained minor injuries and it is not known if he received any medical treatment.