The case occupant is a 28 year old male driver, restrained with a manual lap/shoulder belt, who was involved in a severe frontal impact. His frontal steering column mounted air bag and both roof side rail curtain air bags deployed during the crash. He sustained moderate severity injuries. This crash occurred on a two way divided interstate freeway during daylight hours with clear weather and dry roadway conditions. In the area where the crash occurred, the roadway is comprised of three east and three westbound concrete travel lanes, separated by a grassy center median. For eastbound vehicles, the travel lanes are level and curve to the right and for westbound vehicles, the lanes have an uphill grade and curve to the left. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Jeep Compass compact utility vehicle, was traveling east in lane three of three. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Toyota Camry four door sedan, was traveling west in the inside westbound lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 2001 GMC Yukon large utility vehicle, was also traveling west, just behind V2. All the vehicles were in the curved section of roadway when V1 departed the roadway to the left. V1 traveled up the center median and down the opposite side, heading for the westbound lanes. A non-contact vehicle, also traveling west, swerved to avoid V1, traveled up the sloped median and then back into the westbound lanes where it rolled over and came to rest on its top. V1 continued forward and then the front of V1 impacted the front of V2, resulting in the actuation of the case occupant's seat belt retractor pretensioner and the deployment of V1's frontal air bag, and both the left and right side curtain bags. V1 traveled across the other westbound lanes while rotating clockwise and came to final rest in a grassy area just north of the freeway lanes, facing southeast. After the initial impact between V1 and V2, the driver of V3 attempted to avoid V2, but the front of V3 impacted the back of V2. V3 spun clockwise and came to final rest on the south shoulder, facing southeast. V2 traveled off the south side of the travel lanes and caught on fire. V2 came to final rest near the south shoulder, facing northeast. All three vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant in V1 is a 28 year old male driver who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. The driver's frontal steering column mounted air bag and left and right roof side rail mounted curtains deployed during the crash. He sustained moderate severity injuries and was transported to the trauma center for treatment. No other occupants were in V1.