This head-on crash involves two case occupants who were in a severe frontal collision on a state highway. The first case occupant is the 15 year old female front right passenger, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, with a deployed frontal air bag who sustained serious injuries. The second case occupant is an 11 year old male, second row right side passenger. He was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt and sustained moderate severity injuries. This crash occurred during evening hours under rainy weather and wet roadway conditions. In the general area, the roadway is comprised of one west and one eastbound asphalt travel lane, with narrow shoulders present on both sides. For westbound vehicles, the travel lanes curve to the right with a downhill grade. The eastbound lane is straight with an uphill grade. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Volkswagen Eurovan, was traveling east in the eastbound lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Saturn Vue compact utility vehicle, was traveling west in the westbound lane. V2 was negotiating the curved section of roadway when the driver suffered an unknown type of medical episode, crossed the center lane lines, and traveled into the eastbound lane. The front of V2 impacted the front of V1, resulting in the deployment of V1's dual frontal air bags. V1 was overpowered and rotated clockwise as it traveled off the south side of the highway. V2 rotated slightly counterclockwise, traveled partially off the roadway, and came to final rest facing south. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. The first case occupant in V1 is a 15 year old female front right passenger who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. Her frontal mid instrument panel mounted air bag deployed. She sustained serious injuries and was transported to an outside hospital prior to being transferred to the trauma center. The second case occupant is the 11 year old male, second row right side passenger, who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. He sustained moderate severity injuries and was taken to an outside hospital prior to being transferred to the trauma center. There was a 45 year old female driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt who sustained serious injuries. Her medical treatment status is unknown. There was a 7 year old female passenger seated in the second row left seating position, in an unknown make/model booster seat. She was using the available manual lap/shoulder belt and sustained possible injuries in the crash, but her treatment status is unknown.