The case occupant is a 48 year old male driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, who was involved in a severe corner impact with a semi tractor-trailer. His frontal impact air bag deployed, he sustained serious injuries and was hospitalized for twelve days. This crash occurred on a two lane, two way east-west roadway during daylight hours, under clear weather and dry roadway conditions. In the area where the crash occurred, the eastbound travel lane curves to the right and has a slight downhill grade. The westbound lane curves to the left and is level. There are narrow paved strips present on both sides of the lanes, with guardrails present on a section of the roadway that passes over a creek. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Toyota Tacoma four door double cab compact pickup, was traveling east in the eastbound lane. Vehicle 2 (V2), a 1990 Kenworth T600 cab behind engine tractor hauling one trailer, was traveling west in the westbound lane. As both vehicles were negotiating the curved section of roadway, the driver of V1 crossed over the center lane lines and into V2's lane of travel. The driver of V2 steered right in an attempt to avoid V1, but the front of V1 struck the front of V2, resulting in the actuation of V1's driver seat belt retractor pretensioner and the deployment of its driver side frontal air bag. V2 continued a short distance and its right side impacted the north guardrail. V1 rotated counterclockwise, and it's back right impacted the south guardrail, resulting in minor damage. V1 came to final rest near the south guardrail, facing northwest. V2 came to final rest in the westbound lane, facing southwest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant in V1 is a 48 year old male driver who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and his steering column mounted frontal air bag deployed during the first crash event. He sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center, where he was hospitalized for twelve days. There was a twenty-month-old male passenger secured in the second row center seating position. He was seated in an unknown type of child safety seat. According to police, the child sustained a facial laceration and was transported to the trauma center. His level of medical treatment is unknown. According to police, the driver of V2 was not injured.