This near-side impact crash case involves a 36 year old female driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt with deployed side impact and side curtain air bags. She sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred in a four legged intersection during pre-dawn hours, under darkness with overhead street lights. There were clear weather conditions and dry roadways. The north-south asphalt roadway is comprised of two southbound, one northbound and one left-turn only lane. The intersecting east-west asphalt roadway is comprised of two westbound, two eastbound and one left turn only lane. This intersection is controlled by traffic signals. The case Vehicle one (V1), a 2012 Chevrolet Malibu four door sedan, was traveling south in the inside southbound lane and Vehicle 2 (V2), a 2008 Nissan Altima four door sedan, was traveling west in the inner westbound lane of the intersecting street. V1 had just started from a stop when both vehicles entered the intersection and the front of V2 impacted the left side of V1, resulting in the actuation of V1's driver's seat belt retractor pretensioner and the deployment of V1's side impact and left side curtain air bags. V1 rotated counterclockwise, traveled towards the southwest corner of the intersection and went up and over the curb and onto the sidewalk. V1's left front tire/rim impacted the inner sidewalk curb, resulting in minor damage. V1 came to final rest on the southwest corner of the intersection, facing west. After the initial impact, V2 rotated counterclockwise and came to final rest still partially in the intersection, facing southeast. Per the investigating officer, V2's engine caught fire post-crash and spread to the passenger compartment before it was extinguished by fire/rescue personnel. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant is the 36 year old female driver of V1 who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. During the first crash event, this case occupant's seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and her outboard seat back mounted side and left roof side rail mounted curtain air bags deployed. She sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center where she was hospitalized for six days. There were no other occupants in her vehicle. According to police, V2's driver and front right passenger were not injured in the crash.