This severe frontal crash involved two case occupants, a 77 year old male driver and a 90 year old female front right passenger. They were both wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belts and both had frontal and knee airbag deployments. The driver sustained moderate severity injuries and the passenger sustained serious injuries. Both were hospitalized at the trauma center. This severe head-on frontal crash occurred in a curved section of a two lane, two way state highway during daylight hours and under clear, dry weather conditions. This highway runs north and south. The lanes are bordered by paved shoulders, and in the area of the curve there is a steel guardrail bordering the west side. Vehicle one (V1), a 2015 Lexus RX350 compact utility vehicle was in the southbound lane and was negotiating the curve to the left. Vehicle two (V2), a 2010 Toyota Camry, four door sedan was in the northbound lane negotiating the curve to the right. While in the curve, V2 drifted over the center line into the southbound lane and the front of V1 impacted the front of V2, resulting in the actuation of V1's front seat belt retractor pretensioners and the deployment of the dual frontal and knee air bags. Both vehicles rotated counterclockwise near the point of impact. The back of V1 then impacted the guard rail, resulting in minor damage. V1 came to final rest facing east, partly on the shoulder and partially in the southbound lane. V2 came to final rest facing west across both lanes. Both vehicles were disabled and were towed from the scene. This crash has two case occupants in V1, a 77 year old male driver and a 90 year old female front right passenger. Both occupants were restrained with the manual lap/shoulder belts and both retractor pretensioners actuated during the first crash event. The driver's steering column mounted and lower instrument panel mounted frontal airbags both deployed on impact. The front right passenger's top instrument panel mounted and lower instrument panel mounted frontal air bags also deployed. The driver sustained injuries and was airlifted to the trauma center. The front right passenger went to a local hospital with serious injuries and was later airlifted to the trauma center. Both were hospitalized. There were no other occupants in V1. The driver of V2 was fatally injured.