This five vehicle intersection crash involves two case vehicles and two case occupants. The first case occupant is a 42 year old male driver, involved in three frontal impacts and one side slap event. He was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt and his frontal impact air bag deployed during the crash. He sustained serious injuries. The second case occupant is a 35 year old female driver, involved in two far side impacts and a minor frontal event. She was not wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. The right curtain air bag and right front seat back mounted side air bag deployed during the crash. This interchange/intersection crash occurred during daylight hours under wet and rainy weather conditions. The main roadway consists of two east and two westbound asphalt travel lanes with paved shoulders present on both sides. These lanes are generally straight and level. There is a two lane, one way northbound freeway off-ramp that intersects with this roadway. The off-ramp asphalt travel lanes have a slight uphill grade, and then level out in the intersection. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2008 Dodge Challenger two door sedan, was westbound in the inside westbound travel lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Honda CRV compact utility vehicle, was traveling north in lane one of the freeway off-ramp. The second case vehicle, Vehicle three (V3), a 2012 Nissan Altima four door sedan, was traveling north in lane two of the off-ramp. Both V2 and V3 were intending to make left turns onto the intersecting roadway. Vehicle four (V4), a 2012 Nissan Frontier compact pickup, was stopped facing east for a traffic light in the inner eastbound travel lane. Vehicle five (V5), a 1991 Honda Accord four door sedan, was stopped behind V4, also waiting for the traffic light. For unknown reasons, as the driver of V1 approached the interchange area, he began driving west in the eastbound lanes. V2 and V3 began to turn left as V1 entered the intersection and the front of V1 impacted the right side of V2, resulting in the actuation of V1's driver's seat belt retractor pretensioner and the deployment of V1's dual front air bags. V2 rotated counterclockwise as V1 continued west and then the front of V1 impacted the right side of V3, resulting in the deployment of V3's right seat back mounted side and right curtain air bags. V1 and V3 rotated towards one another and V1's left side impacted V3's right rear, resulting in moderate damage to both vehicles. After the first crash event, V2 traveled off the roadway into a grassy median where its front end impacted a street sign post, knocking it over. V2 continued in a southwesterly direction and came to final rest in the median, facing south. After striking V3, V1 continued traveling in a northwesterly direction and the front of V1 impacted the front of V4. V4 was pushed rearward from the impact and the back of V4 impacted the front of V5. V1 came to final rest facing southwest, next to V4. V4 and V5 both came to final rest still in their original travel lane, facing east. After the second event between V1 and V3, V3 was redirected and traveled onto the grassy median adjacent to the freeway off-ramp. V3 continued east and its front impacted a street sign post, resulting in minor damage. V3 came to final rest in the median, facing east. V1, V2, V3 and V4 were towed due to damage. V5 was driven from the scene. The first case occupant is the 42 year old male driver of V1 who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and his steering column mounted frontal air bag deployed during the crash. He sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center, where he was hospitalized for two days. There were no passengers in V1. The second case occupant is the 35 year old female driver of V3 who was not wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. There were no air bag deployments in her seating position, but the right front outboard seat back mounted side air bag and right roof side rail mounted curtain deployed during the crash. She sustained critical injuries and was transported to the trauma center, where she was hospitalized for forty-seven days. There was a 2-1/2 year old second row left side male passenger, seated forward facing in a convertible child safety seat. He sustained visible but minor injuries and was treated and released at the trauma center. There was a four week old second row right side male passenger, secured in a rearward facing child safety seat. He was reportedly not injured but was screened at the trauma center. The 48 year old female driver and sole occupant in V2 sustained incapacitating injuries, but her treatment status is unknown. The occupants of V3 and V4 were reportedly not injured.