The case occupant is a 47 year old female driver who was involved in a severe front end collision with another vehicle. This driver was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt with a frontal impact air bag deployment and she sustained serious injuries. This multivehicle crash occurred during evening hours in darkness with overhead street lights, rainy weather and wet roadway conditions. In the area where the crash occurred, the roadway is comprised of one east and one westbound asphalt travel lane, with paved shoulders on both sides of the roadway. The travel lanes are separated from one another by an asphalt median designated with Botts' dots. The travel lanes are straight with an uphill grade for westbound vehicles and a downhill grade for eastbound vehicles. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Kia Spectra four door sedan, was traveling west in the westbound lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2008 Chrysler Pacifica four door sedan, was traveling east in the eastbound lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 2002 Honda Civic two door coupe, was traveling west just ahead of V1. V2 crossed the center median, traveled into the westbound lane and the front of V2 impacted the left side of V3. V2 continued forward and the front of V2 impacted the front of V1, resulting in the actuation of V1's left front seat belt retractor pretensioner and the deployment of V1's left frontal air bag. During this crash event, V2 overpowered V1, forcing V1 backwards while rotating counterclockwise. V1 came to final rest straddling the shoulder and westbound lane, facing southwest. V2 rotated slightly counter clockwise and came to final rest in the westbound travel lane, near V1, facing east. After the impact between V2 and V3, V3 spun counterclockwise, departed the north side of the roadway and came to final rest completely off the road, facing southeast. All three vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant in V1 is a 47 year old female driver who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. The driver's frontal steering column mounted air bag deployed. She sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. No other occupants were in V1.