This severe frontal crash involves a 24 year old male driver who was restrained with a manual lap/shoulder belt with pretensioners and a frontal airbag deployment. He sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred on a two lane, two way roadway during daylight hours under clear, dry conditions. The roadway had narrow paved shoulders and was bordered by sloped sandy ditches on both sides. Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Toyota Sequoia four door large utility vehicle, was travelling south in the southbound lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Peterbilt medium heavy truck pulling a trailer was travelling north in the northbound lane. V1 then drifted into the northbound lane, and the front of V1 impacted the front of V2. V1 rotated counterclockwise during the impact and V1's front right corner impacted the left side of V2. V1 continued to rotate counterclockwise 120 degrees, crossed over the southbound lane and traveled down into the west side ditch. After a minor impact between V1's back plane and a wire fence, V1 came to final rest facing northeast. V2 post impact continued north and veered off the roadway to the right and travelled down into the sandy ditch for some distance. V2 came to final rest facing north in the ditch and then V2's engine compartment started on fire. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The driver of V1 is the case occupant. He is a 24 year old male who was restrained with a manual lap/shoulder belt. His seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and his frontal steering column mounted airbag deployed. He sustained serious injuries, was transported to a local hospital and was later transferred to the trauma center. A second occupant in V1 was the 24 year old female seated in the front right position. She was restrained with the manual lap/shoulder belt. Her seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and her frontal instrument panel mounted airbag deployed. She was transported to a local hospital and was later released after being treated for minor injuries.