This 68-year-old male (180cm/93kg, 5'11"/205lbs) was the driver of a 2006 Acura TL four-door sedan that was involved in a severe 50% offset frontal impact with the front of a 1991 Toyota pickup truck. The principal direction of force was 12 o'clock and the direct damage extended down the left side to the driver door panel that created some lateral intrusion and immediate counterclockwise rotation of 180 degrees from the point of impact. This case occupant was using the manual lap/shoulder belt and the belt retractor pretensioner actuated and the frontal steering column airbag deployed on the initial impact. The side impact seatback and left roof rail curtain airbags also deployed. On impact his body moved forward, but due to the rotation and lateral movement from damage swiping down the left side of the vehicle, his body actually moved forward and slightly left within the occupant compartment. The seatbelt restrained his torso/chest with significant loading documented on the webbing. His right leg appeared to be positioned on the brake pedal. His right knee then impacted below the steering column where it was found cracked with skin and bone fragments also documented. The brake pedal was found bent from his right foot. His left knee impacted and deformed the knee bolster near the intersection with the door panel that was also found cracked from his left knee. His face then contacted the intruding A-pillar near the area where it meets the window frame where skin transfers were documented. With the lateral intrusion of the door panel, his left elbow deformed and scuffed the forward upper door panel from contact. The armrest also had a scuff from contact with his abdomen. During the movement of the vehicle to final rest, it then appears his body moved left and rearward into the B-pillar where some scuffs were documented from contact with his left upper arm and/or shoulder. On the outboard side of the roof curtain airbag that had deployed, large amounts of blood from a head wound were documented as well as blood found on the upper B-pillar. This appeared to be the position of his head at final rest. This patient suffered multiple injuries including a traumatic brain injury with subarachnoid and subdural hemorrhage and a right posterior parietal scalp laceration. He also suffered facial fractures, a sternal fracture, multiple bilateral rib fractures, a C2 hangman's fracture, bilateral humerus fractures, left radial/ulnar fractures, bilateral femur fractures, a right patella fracture and tibia fracture with knee dislocation, a right calcaneal fracture, right medial malleolus fracture and right talus fracture. The traumatic brain injuries and facial fractures were attributed to striking the A-pillar, which had significant intrusion. The C2 fracture was attributed to compression/extension as the head struck the A-pillar. The rib fractures and sternal fractures were attributed to loading on the seat belt. The left humerus fracture was attributed to compression against the B-pillar. The source of the right humerus fracture was unknown. The left radial/ulnar fracture was attributed to the elbow contact with the door panel. The right femur fracture and knee injuries were attributed to contact of the knee below the steering column. The left femur fracture was attributed to contact of the left knee with the instrument panel. The source of the right fibula fracture was unknown. The right ankle and foot fractures were primarily attributed to compression with the toe pan, but interaction with the brake pedal was also considered as an alternate source.