This frontal impact crash case involves a 36 year old male driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, with deployed frontal, side and curtain air bags and who sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred in an intersection during evening hours, in darkness, with rainy weather conditions and wet roadways. The four lane, two way east-west roadway consists of one eastbound and one westbound travel lane with dedicated right turn only and left turn only lanes present at the intersection. The intersecting roadway consists of two north and two southbound lanes with left turn only lanes present at the intersection, along with a right turn only lane for northbound traffic. The lanes are comprised of asphalt with a downhill grade for eastbound vehicles and an uphill grade for westbound traffic. The case vehicle one (V1), a 2008 Honda Civic four door sedan, was traveling east in the eastbound travel lane and was approaching the intersection. Vehicle 2 (V2), a 2008 Toyota Rav4 compact utility vehicle, was stopped for the traffic signal in the westbound left-turn only lane, waiting to make a left turn onto the intersecting street. The driver of V2 began to make a left turn as V1 was crossing through the intersection and the front of V1 impacted the front of V2, resulting in the deployment of V1's driver frontal, side and side curtain air bags. After the impact, V1 rotated slightly clockwise and came to final rest facing southeast near the southeast corner of the intersection. V2 rotated counterclockwise and also came to final rest near the southeast corner, facing south. V1 and V2 sustained disabling damage and were towed from the scene. The case occupant is the 36 year old male driver of V1 who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. This case occupant's seat belt buckle and retractor pretensioners actuated during the crash. His steering column mounted frontal air bag, outboard seat back mounted side air bag and left roof side rail mounted curtain all deployed. He was transported to an outside hospital and was later transferred to the trauma center for treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle.