This multi-vehicle crash involves two case occupants in a moderate severity frontal collision, followed by a minor secondary side impact. The first case occupant is the 85 year old male driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, with a deployed frontal air bag who sustained serious injuries. The second case occupant is a 72 year old male, front row right side passenger, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, with a deployed frontal air bag who also sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred during daylight hours under overcast weather and dry roadway conditions. In the general area, the roadway is comprised of one north and one southbound asphalt travel lane, with paved shoulders on both sides. For northbound vehicles, the travel lanes curve to the left with an uphill grade. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Toyota Prius four door hatchback, was traveling north in the northbound lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2010 Dodge Caravan minivan, was traveling south in the southbound lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 2006 Volkswagen Passat four door sedan, was traveling north a short distance behind V1. All three vehicles were negotiating the curved section of roadway when V2 crossed the center lane lines, traveled into the northbound lane and the front of V2 impacted the front of V1, resulting in the actuation of V1's front row seat belt retractor pretensioners and the deployment of V1's dual frontal air bags. As a result of this frontal impact with V2, V1 was pushed rearward in a southbound direction and then V1's left front was impacted by the front of V3. Then V1 rotated slightly clockwise and came to final rest facing north, straddling the east shoulder and lane one. V3 traveled a short distance south and came to final rest facing north in lane one. V2 continued forward, rotated approximately 90 degrees counterclockwise, and came to final rest across lane one, facing east. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. V3 was driven from the scene. The first case occupant in V1 is an 85 year old male driver who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and his frontal steering column mounted air bag deployed. He sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. The second case occupant is the 72 year old male, front row right side passenger, who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and his instrument panel mounted frontal air bag deployed. He also sustained serious injuries and was taken to the trauma center. There was a 69 year old female occupant in the second row left seating position, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt who sustained injuries. Her medical treatment status is unknown. There was an 80 year old female occupant in the second row right seat, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. She sustained fatal injuries in the crash.