This crash occurred on a two lane, two way highway during a snow storm with a snow covered surface. Vehicle 3 (V3), an International straight truck with a snow plow, was in the eastbound lane with a slight upgrade and just beginning to negotiate a curve to the left. Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Volvo XC70 station wagon, was also eastbound behind V3 prior to the left curve. Vehicle four (V4), a 2007 Acura MDX utility vehicle was following eastbound behind V1. Vehicle two (V2), a 1987 Toyota 4-Runner, four door compact utility vehicle, was in the westbound lane and negotiating the same curve to the right with a slight downgrade. V2 lost control due to the snowy conditions, and entered the eastbound lane and the front of V2 impacted the left side of the snow plow blade on the front of V3. V2 was deflected to the right, back into the westbound lane but then veered back to the left into the eastbound lane where the front left of V2 impacted the front left of V1. V2 then rotated counterclockwise 90 degrees into the westbound lane and began to rollover to the right. V2 rolled two quarter turns and came to final rest on its roof top in the westbound lane facing south. After the impact between V1 and V2, V1 rotated counterclockwise 90 degrees in the eastbound lane. V1's left side quarter panel then impacted the front left of V4, resulting in minor damage. V1 came to final rest facing north in the eastbound lane, and V4 came to final rest still facing east in the eastbound lane and partially on the south paved shoulder. V3 stopped in the eastbound lane after the impact with V2. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage, and V3 and V4 were driven from the scene. The case occupant is the driver of V1 who is a 46 year old male and the only occupant in this vehicle. He was restrained with the manual lap/shoulder belt and the front steering column mounted, the side seatback mounted and the left side roof rail curtain airbags all deployed on impact with V2. He sustained serious injuries and was taken to a local hospital and later transferred to the trauma center where he was hospitalized.