This four vehicle crash involves two case occupants in separate case vehicles. The first case occupant is a 27 year old female front right passenger of V1, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, involved in a severe head-on collision with a frontal impact air bag deployment. She sustained severe injuries. The second case occupant is the 26 year old male driver of V2, wearing the available integrated manual lap/shoulder belt, with a frontal impact air bag deployment who sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred during evening hours in darkness under overcast, dry weather conditions. The roadway consists of two north and two southbound travel lanes with double yellow lanes lines separating the two. Vehicles traveling north have a slight downhill grade, while the southbound lanes have a slight uphill grade, and there are paved shoulders on both sides. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2012 Subaru Impreza four door sedan, was northbound in lane two, traveling a short distance behind vehicle three (V3), a 1990 Ford Ranger compact pickup. Vehicle four (V4), a 2008 Nissan Titan large pickup, was traveling north next to V3 in lane one. Case vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Chevrolet Avalanche large pickup, was traveling south in the inside southbound lane and was approaching the northbound vehicles. For unknown reasons, the driver of V1 attempted to pass V3 on the left. V1 traveled into the oncoming southbound lanes and the front of V1 impacted the front of V2, resulting in the actuation of V1's front row seat belt retractor pretensioners and the deployment of its frontal, front left knee, left side and left curtain air bags. During this event, V2's frontal air bags also deployed. V2 rotated counterclockwise and came to final rest facing northeast, with its back half on the west shoulder and its front half in the adjoining travel lane. After the initial impact, V1 rotated counterclockwise and the front of V3 impacted the back of V1, resulting in minor V1 damage. V1 continued rotating counterclockwise and came to final rest further north in lane two, facing southeast. V3 traveled to the right and crossed into V4's lane of travel, impacting the left side of V4 with its front right corner. V3 rotated clockwise and came to final rest facing south, straddling the east shoulder and lane one. V4 continued traveling north and came to a controlled stop on the east shoulder. V1, V2 and V3 were towed due to damage. V4 was driven from the scene. The first case occupant is the 27 year old front right female passenger in V1 who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt with an instrument panel mounted front air bag deployment. She sustained severe injuries and was transported to the trauma center, where she died forty-three days after the crash. The driver of V1, a 27 year old male, was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, and died at the scene. The second case occupant is the 26 year old male driver of V2 who was restrained with the integrated manual lap/shoulder belt with a steering column mounted front air bag deployment. He was transported to the trauma center where he was hospitalized for fourteen days. There were no other occupants in V2. The drivers of V3 and V4 were not injured.