This crash case involves a 46 year old restrained female with deployed air bag who sustained serious injury. The crash occurred during the early morning hours (dark but lighted) in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred on a three lane bituminous interstate highway (interchange area) basically straight in origin without any traffic control involvement. The roadway is level and divided on the inner lane by a metal guardrail and on the outer shoulder by a concrete barrier dividing the inner three lanes from a two lane exit ramp. The case vehicle (V1) a 2006 two-door hatchback Mitsubishi Eclipse was being driven northbound in the right lane and vehicle two (V2) a 1998 E-350 (Cutaway Van) was stopped on the right shoulder with its left rear partially encroaching into the right northbound lane due to a previous crash it was involved with V3. Vehicle #3 a 2002 five-door GMC Envoy, SUV was located on the northbound shoulder a few yards in front of V2. V2 and V3 were in a previous crash with each other and were at their final resting positions when this crash occurred. The occupants of both vehicles (V2 & V3) were out of their vehicles at the time of the crash between V1 and V2. The crash occurred when V1 traveled into the rear of V2 resulting in an offset frontal crash configuration with damage continuing from the right front bumper to the back hatch. After initial impact, V1 rotated 360 degrees (clockwise) before traveling to its final resting position partially in the left northbound lane (approximately 60 yards from initial impact). V2 was pushed forward and impacted vehicle # 3 which was parked on the right shoulder (from a previous crash with V2). Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage. V1 was being driven by the 46 year old female case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt. The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed as a result of the impact. The available seat back mounted air bag and the roof side rail air bag did not deploy. The case occupant was seriously injuried and transported to a local trauma center by a combination of ground ambulance and helicopter.