The offset frontal crash case involves a 13 year old restrained female with deployed air bag who sustained serious injury. The crash occurred during daylight hours in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred on a three lane bituminous roadway (one northbound lane and one southbound seperated by a 2 way left turn lane) basically straight in origin and without any intersection or traffic control involvement. At the location of the crash there is a less than 2% negative grade for the southbound lane and a less than 2% positive grade for the northbound lane. The case vehicle (V1) a 2006 five-door Ford Focus was being driven southbound and vehicle two (V2) a 2007 five-door Toyota RAV4 was being driven northbound. The crash occurred when V2, due to a medical condition, crossed over the double yellow line directly into the path of V1 resulting in an off-set frontal crash configuration for both vehicles. After initial impact V1 rotated clockwise 360 degrees before traveling to final rest in the southbound lane (partially in the center lane) facing south. After initial impact V2 rotated clockwise 180 degrees while rolling over one quarter turn onto its driver's side before traveling to its final resting place off the south road edge facing southeast. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage. The 13 year old female front right seat case occupant was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (seat belt pretensioner did actuate). The available front passenger air bag did deploy as a result of the impact. The case occupant was seriously injured and transported by helicopter to a level 1 trauma center for treatment. V1 was being driven by a 77 year old male who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt. The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed as a result of the crash. There was also a 9 year old female seated in the 2nd row left seating position. She was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt. The driver of V1 was transported from the scene to a local hospital for treatment of his moderate injuries and the 2nd row occupant was transported to a local hospital for treatment and then released.