This crash occurred on a multi-lane divided urban trafficway. The trafficway is situated in a north to south configuration and is comprised of three travel lanes for each direction. The trafficway is divided by a grass and tree covered median without a positive barrier. At the time of the crash it was dark and the streetlights were lit. The weather was clear and the road surface was dry. At the time of the crash traffic was light to moderate. Involved in the crash was the case vehicle (V1) a 1999 Ford Explorer 4-door SUV equipped with manual 3-point lap and shoulder restraints for each outboard seating position. In addition to the manual restraints, V1 is also equipped with a driver and right passenger frontal impact air bags, both of which, deployed in the during the crash sequence. V1 is also equipped with seat mounted side impact air bags for the front seat occupants. Only the driver's seat mounted side impact air bag deployed during the crash sequence. The driver of V1 was a 62-year-old male (CIREN subject in another case). He was not using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. The right front seat was occupied by a 58-year-old female (not a CIREN subject). She was using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. The right rear seat was occupied by a 96-year-old female (this CIREN subject). She was also using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. At impact with the tree the restrained right rear occupant moved forward with respect to the decelerating vehicle and in a path consistent with the 12 o'clock Principal Direction of Force (PDOF) impact acting on the case vehicle. The right rear occupant contacted and loaded the shoulder portion of the restraint with her chest and anterior neck. As a result of the contact the passenger sustained a contusion to the anterior neck. As the case vehicle started to rotate in a counterclockwise direction, the right rear occupant's left shoulder was able to move forward and this allowed the upper torso of the occupant to rotate out of the shoulder belt. When the shoulder belt fell down off the occupant's right shoulder, the lap portion as well as the lowered shoulder portion acted as a fulcrum allowing the passenger to bend forward. This caused a hyperflexion fracture to the anterior portion of the 5th cervical vertebra with an associated spinal cord injury. When the upper torso of the right rear occupant bent forward out of the shoulder restraint she contacted the rear surface of the right and left front seat backs with her head. As a result of this contact she sustained a contusion to the forehead as well as a subgaleal contusion to the left occipital region. In addition to the scalp contusions she also sustained a cerebral contusions to the bilateral frontal lobes, an intraventricular bleed on the left and a diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage.