This crash occurred on a divided urban trafficway. The trafficway is situated in a north to south configuration and is comprised of 4 travel lanes in the southbound direction and 3 travel lanes in the northbound direction. The travel lanes are divided by a raised grass median without a positive barrier. In addition to the 3 northbound travel lanes, there is also a northbound 2-lane service roadway separated from the travel lanes by a raised, mountable concrete median strip. The service road is bordered on the east side by a barrier curb and sidewalk. At the time of the crash it was dark and the streetlights were lit. The weather was clear and the road surface was dry. Traffic for that time of the day can be moderate to heavy. Involved in the crash was the case vehicle (V1), a 1998 Honda Civic 4-door sedan equipped with manual 3-point lap and shoulder restraints for each outboard seating position. In addition to the manual restraints the case vehicle was also equipped with a driver and right passenger frontal impact air bags, both of which deployed in the crash. The driver and lone occupant of the case vehicle was a 27-year-old male. He was not using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. The driver of the case vehicle struck his head in the crash and was unconscious upon arrival of the paramedics. He was pinned between the seats of the case vehicle and had to be extricated. He was transported to the trauma center with a trauma criterion of a GCS < 13. He was transported via helicopter. The case vehicle (V1) was traveling in a northerly direction in the middle northbound lane of the main roadway. As the vehicle proceeded north it veered to the right and crossed mountable median barrier on the east side of the trafficway continued to travel in a northeasterly direction. The case vehicle crossed the 2 northbound lanes of the service road and mounted the barrier curb which borders the east edge of the service road. When the case vehicle mounted the barrier curb, it struck a fire hydrant with the left rear fender. This impact caused the case vehicle to start to rotate in a counterclockwise direction as it crossed the sidewalk. At that time the case vehicle struck a palm tree with the left front suspension and left side of the vehicle. After this impact the case vehicle rotated counterclockwise to its final rest position along side the struck tree facing in a northerly direction