Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 77-year old male driver (case occupant 1) and a 76-year old, right front, female passenger (case occupant 2), both of a 2006 Ford Ranger compact pick-up truck, which was primarily involved in a severe, frontal impact, with a barrier pillar/post within a toll booth plaza. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight), of a summer weekday, in the northbound travel lanes, of a 12 lane, toll booth plaza. Each toll booth island is protected by an impact attenuator (unknown if wet or dry cell) with a lateral concrete barrier wall. Beyond this structure, protecting the toll booth itself, are two vertical barrier posts (concrete or reinforced steel). All travel lanes, leading into the toll plaza are straight. At the time of the crash, the roadway surface was dry and the weather was clear. The reported speed limit is 55 mph (89 km/h). The 77-year old male driver (case occupant 1) was operating Vehicle 1, the 2006 Ford Ranger compact pick-up truck, in the northbound travel lanes, approaching a toll booth plaza. Occupying the right front seating position was the 76-year old female passenger (case occupant 2). Both occupants were restrained by their respective 3-point, lap/shoulder belts and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with frontal impact air bags. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 swerved to the right as it entered the toll both area. Vehicle 1 swerved across an unknown number travel lanes before striking the end of an impact attenuator with its front left plane (left frontal plane is also possible / event 1). Vehicle 1 disengaged from the attenuator and sideswiped the lateral guardrail face of the attenuator itself with its left side plane (minor impact / event 2). Vehicle 1 is believed to have crossed one toll booth lane before contacting the corner of a barrier wall with its right side plane (minor impact / event 3). At this time, Vehicle 1 jumped the curbed edge of the raised island and subsequently struck the far right vertical barrier post with its frontal plane (severe impact / event 4). Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest in a toll booth lane, just right and forward of a toll booth itself, facing north. It is believed that Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed upon impact with the vertical barrier post (event 4), but a preceding deployment event cannot be ruled out. Post-Crash: The 77-year old male driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle after a 20 plus minute extrication (roof and driver's door removed, dash roll). The 76-year old female passenger was assisted from the vehicle. Both occupants were transported to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver subsequently expired 10 days post crash. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene as a result of damage sustained in the crash.