Case Focus: The case occupant is a 76-year old, male driver, of a 2002 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a severe, right side impact (far side), with the frontal plane of a 2001 Jeep Cherokee utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight), of a fall weekday, at the intersection of a north/south traffiway and an east/west, two-lane, residential roadway. The traffiway, prior to the intersection, has four northbound lanes and four southbound lanes (left and right turn lanes for both directions). The roadway surface was reportedly wet at the time of the crash and the weather was cloudy. The posted speed limit, for the north/south trafficway, was 80 km/h (50 mph). The 76-year old male case occupant was operating Vehicle 1, the 2002 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, in the left, southbound lane (left turn lane), approaching the intersection from the north. The case occupant was restrained by a 3-point, lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle was equipped with frontal impact air bags only. Vehicle 2, the 2001 Jeep Cherokee 4-door utility vehicle, was traveling northbound, in the left northbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the south. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the right side plane (right rear half) of Vehicle 1. As a result, Vehicle 1 spun clockwise and struck Vehicle 2's right side plane with its right front fender area (minor sideswipe damage). Vehicle 1 is believed to have come to rest in or near the intersection, facing an unknown direction. Vehicle 2 was redirected to the right and departed the northbound roadway, at the northeast corner of the intersection. Vehicle 2 continued on and is believed to have struck a fence with its frontal plane, where it came to rest. As expected, Vehicle 1's frontal impact air bags did not deploy for this crash, but the frontal impact air bags for Vehicle 2 did. Post-Crash: Emergency medical services personnel (EMS) responded to the scene and removed the driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant). He was transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center (CIREN) and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.