This 83-year old male case occupant was the driver of a 2005 Buick Park Avenue 4-door sedan, which was involved in severe, 12 o'clock, off-set frontal impact with a large concrete bridge/overpass support pillar. He was 175 cm (69 in) in height and weighed 61 kg (134 lbs) at the time of the crash. His seat was found in the mid-to-forward most track position with the seat backrest being upright (seat not deformed, but skewed forward due to floor pan warping). He was restrained by an available 3-point, manual lap/shoulder belt and had the benefit of a frontal impact air bag, which deployed as a result of the frontal impact. On impact, the case occupant was projected, in reference to the vehicle, directly forward, in response to the 0-degree impact to the frontal plane. He loaded his seat belt webbing and the frontal air bag with his upper torso (belt loading), but due to the extreme impact, was still able to load the steering wheel/hub (column compressed). His lower extremities moved forward as well, with his right knee/leg striking the knee bolster and his left knee and thigh striking the knee bolster (probable) or the left interior door panel (possible). Although his hands are believed to have been on the steering wheel at impact, it could not be determined what he contacted to have caused lacerations to both his left and right upper extremities. The case occupant's injuries include: a chest contusion, fractures of the left 1st through 6th ribs, a fracture of the right 2nd rib, bilateral hemothoraces, a left clavicle fracture, a sternal fracture and a heart laceration. The heart laceration and rib fractures are the result of probably contact of the thorax loading through the air bag and into the steering wheel or possibly due to contact with the seat belt. The chest contusion, bilateral hemothoraces, left clavicle fracture, and sternal fracture are due to contact with the seat belt. Laceration(s) of the spleen and liver were the certain result of loading contact of the seat belt webbing. Abrasions of the right knee and contusions of the right leg are the probable result of contact with the knee bolster. A left thigh contusion and a left femur fracture are the probable result of contact with the knee bolster or possibly the left, interior door panel. Right anterior arm contusions, right hand lacerations, left hand lacerations and a left elbow laceration are the result of contact with an unknown source. The maximum Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS) for this case occupant was AIS 5.