Case Focus: The focus of this case is on an 88-year old, female driver (case occupant), of a 2005 Ford 500 4-door sedan, which was involved in a moderate, frontal impact, with a 2004 Ford F-150 pick-up truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight), of a early fall weekday, at the intersection of two bituminous, trafficways. The eastern leg of the intersection consists of three west bound lanes separated from two west bound lanes by a raised concrete median. This leg of the intersection, for the westbound travel direction, has a slight left turning curve as it enters the intersection. The western leg of the intersection consists of three eastbound lanes separated from two westbound lanes by a raised concrete median. For the eastbound travel direction, the eastern leg curves right as it enters the intersection. The southern leg of the intersection consists of two southbound lanes separated from three northbound lanes by a raised concrete median. The northern leg of the intersection did not play a part in the crash. All four corners of the intersection have raised concrete/grass islands and the intersection is controlled by overhead, standard electric tri-colored signals. At time of the crash, the weather conditions were clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. The speed limit of the east/west trafficway, on both sides of the intersection, is 40 mph (64 km/h). The 88-year old female driver (case occupant) was operating Vehicle 1, the 2005 Ford 500 4-door sedan, in the left turn lane, of the eastern leg of the intersection. She was restrained by a 3-point, lap/shoulder belt. She intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted side air bags (front outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. Vehicle 2, a 2004 Ford F-150 pick-up truck was traveling eastbound in the right eastbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the west. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling eastbound. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and Vehicle 2's front left corner (and subsequent left side plane) struck Vehicle 1's frontal plane at an acute angle (event 1). Vehicle 1 rotated counter clockwise before departing the intersection at the southeast island. Vehicle 1 traversed the island and a transition lane before coming to rest up against a guardrail (no implied impact) at the southeast corner of the roadway. Vehicle 2 also departed the intersection at the southeast raised island and traversed it before coming to rest, east of the intersection/island, at or near the eastbound travel lanes. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed and the driver's seat belt pretensioner (retractor type) actuated. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred (post midnight) to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured. Both vehicles were towed due to damage sustained in the crash.