Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 23-year old, right-front female passenger (case occupant), of a 2008 Jeep Patriot, which was involved in a frontal impact with a utility pole. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the very early hours (dark, but overhead lights present), of a late summer weekend, on a straight and level, two-lane, bituminous east/west roadway. The overall crash area is rural in nature, with small residential and business units located along the roadsides. At time of the crash, the weather conditions were clear and the roadway surface was dry. The speed limit of the east/west roadway is 50 mph (80 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2008 Jeep Patriot compact utility vehicle, was being operated by a 24-year old female driver in the westbound travel lane. Occupying the right front seating position was the 23-year old female case occupant. Neither occupant was utilizing their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt; however, Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with frontal air bags, side impact air bags (front outboard) and side curtains. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 departed the roadway at the right edge and crossed a paved driveway entrance and a drainage ditch. As Vehicle 1 reached the far side of the drainage ditch, it struck a utility pole (cracked/sheared/yielding) with its frontal plane (event 1). At this time, Vehicle 1 struck a wooden post and beam fence with its frontal plane as well (event 2) located just beyond and next to the utility pole. Vehicle 1's post impact movement is unknown, but it is believed it came to rest at the drainage ditch area, at or near the point of impact with the utility pole. As a result of the pole impact, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed. Post-Crash: Both female occupants of Vehicle 1 were removed and subsequently transported. The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital and was reportedly treated and released with minor injuries. The right front, 23-year old female case occupant was transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.