Case Focus: The focus of this case is on 34-year old male driver, of a 2007 BMW 328i 4-door sedan and a 65-year old female driver, of a 2001 Chevrolet Suburban utility station wagon. The two case occupants were primarily involved in a moderate, front (BMW) to side (Chevrolet) "L-type" impact. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the late evening hours (dark, but street lights present), of a summer weekday, at the intersection (interchange area) of a two-lane, southbound roadway and a single lane entry ramp. The southbound roadway forms one direction of a north/south trafficway. The single lane ramp leads from the northbound roadway to a westbound ramp for an east/west trafficway. The single lane ramp forms the east and west legs of the intersection. The weather was clear and the intersection surface was dry. The posted speed limit for the southbound roadway was 89 km/h (55 mph). A 34-year old male driver (case occupant 1) was operating Vehicle 1, the 2007 BMW 328i, in the right southbound travel lane. He was restrained by a 3-point lap/shoulder belt and had the benefit of frontal and side (seat back and curtain) impact air bags. A 65-year old female driver (case occupant 2) was operating Vehicle 2, the 2001 Chevrolet Suburban utility station wagon, in the single lane entry ramp, approaching the intersection from the west (from the northbound roadway). A 3-point lap/shoulder belt restrained her. A frontal impact air bag was also present, but was not commanded to deploy for this crash. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time, with the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 striking the right front side plane of Vehicle 2. Based upon vehicle damage, it appears that Vehicle 2 rode up upon Vehicle 1's hood while rotating counterclockwise and struck Vehicle 1's left side A-pillar with its right side plane. Vehicle 2 continued to rotate and struck the top of Vehicle 1's trunk area with its right side as Vehicle 1 passed. Vehicle 1 departed the roadway to the right (southwest corner of the intersection) and began to rotate counterclockwise (likely as a result of Vehicle 2's impact to its trunk area). Vehicle 1 continued on, with its left side leading, until it tripped and rolled over one complete rotation (4 quarter turns) and came to rest upon its wheels, facing an easterly direction. Vehicle 2 came to rest, off the roadway, at the southwest corner of the intersection. Post-Crash: Both drivers (case occupants) were transported to a local trauma center (CIREN) and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.