Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 54-year old, female driver (case occupant), of a 2009 Hyundai Sonata 4-door sedan, which was involved in a severe, frontal impact with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (dawn), of a summer weekday, on a curved, two-lane roadway. This bituminous roadway runs generally east and west and has a left turning curve at the crash area for the eastbound travel direction. At the area of the curve, the eastbound travel direction also has a downhill grade, while the south roadside has noticeable embankment (positive grade). The posted speed limit is 40 mph (64 km/h). At the time of the crash, the roadway surfaces were dry and the weather was clear. The overall physical environment is rural. The 54-year old female case occupant was operating Vehicle 1, the 2009 Hyundai Sonata 4-door sedan, in the eastbound travel lane, approaching the curved and graded section of the roadway. She was utilizing a 3-point, lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, side air bags (seat back mounted front outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. Crash: As the roadway curved to the left, Vehicle 1 departed the roadway on the right side. Vehicle 1 subsequently traversed a gravel covered farm access road before climbing the embankment with its right side tires. Vehicle 1 traversed along the embankment, traveling parallel to the roadway, subsequently striking a large tree (90 cm in diameter) with its frontal plane. Vehicle 1 appears to have rotated clockwise before coming to rest at or near the struck tree. As a result of this crash, the driver's advanced frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The responding emergency medical systems personnel (EMS) subsequently removed the case occupant from Vehicle 1 and transported her, by land unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene as a result of damage sustained in the crash.