Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 29-year old, right front, female passenger (case occupant), of a 2010 Mazda CX-7, which was involved in a moderate, frontal impact, with an embankment/concrete culvert. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the early morning hours (dark), of a late summer weekday, on a straight, two-lane roadway. This bituminous roadway runs north and south and has a downhill grade for the northbound travel direction. The overall environment is rural in nature. At time of the crash, the weather conditions were clear and the roadway surface was dry. The speed limit of the east/west roadway is 55 mph (89 km/h). A 31 year old male driver was operating Vehicle 1, the 2010 Mazda CX-7, in the northbound travel lane. He intended to continue traveling north. The 29-year old female passenger (case occupant) occupied the right front seating position. Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were utilizing their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts (retractor type pretensioners present); however, the female case occupant was reportedly sleeping in a somewhat reclined position at the time, resulting in an incorrect positioning of both the lap and shoulder portions of the seat belt. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, front seat backrest mounted side impact air bags and roof side rail curtains. Crash: As Vehicle 1 traveled north, it drifted left and departed the west edge of the roadway. Vehicle 1 climbed a grass embankment and traveled north, parallel to the roadway for some distance. At this time, Vehicle 1 traveled through some minor brush and just left of a guardrail at the area of a small stream. Vehicle 1 continued off the near embankment of the stream, crossed over the stream and pitched downward (with a slight roll to the right about the longitudinal axis) before striking the embankment area on the far side with its frontal plane and striking the concrete culvert with its top/right side plane (front fender extending to the right A-pillar) in a non-horizontal fashion. Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise, along both the lateral and longitudinal axis, and came to rest at the far embankment, facing a southerly direction. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's front retractor type pretensioners actuated, while the frontal air bags and side curtains deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was able to exit the vehicle under his own power. The 29-year old, right front, female case occupant tried to exit the vehicle, but was unable to do so. She was found, by the responding emergency medical systems personnel (EMS) with her feet in the driver's foot well, her back against the instrument panel and her upper torso at or near the right front foot well area. The left side doors and B-pillar were removed by fire/rescue personnel and the 29-year old female driver of Vehicle 1 was removed. She was transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. The driver of Vehicle was transported to a local hospital where he was treated and released. Vehicle 1 was towed due to damage sustained in the crash.