Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 46-year old, female driver (case occupant), of a 2008 Ford Mustang 2-door coupe, which was involved in a severe, frontal impact, with the side plane of a 1988 BMW 325ix 2-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight), of a summer weekend, on a bituminous, two-lane roadway. This level roadway runs north and south and has a long sweeping right-handed curve for the northbound travel direction, leading into a straight portion of roadway (crash area). The speed limit for this roadway is 50 mph (80 km/h) and the overall environment is rural, with drainage ditches located at each roadside. The weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The 46-year old female case occupant was operating Vehicle 1, the 2008 Ford Mustang 2-door coupe, in the straight section of the roadway, in the southbound travel lane. She was utilizing a 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with pretensioner) and the vehicle was equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags and seat back mounted, side impact air bags. The driver of Vehicle 2, a 1988 BMW 325ix 2-door sedan, was traveling northbound and negotiating the sweeping right-handed curved section of the roadway. He intended to negotiate the curve and continue traveling northbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 2, while negotiating the curved section of roadway, experienced a loss of control. Vehicle 2 subsequently departed the right side of the roadway (eastern edge), at the termination of the curved section. At this time, the driver of Vehicle 2 appears to have over-steered left, placing Vehicle 2 in a right side leading yaw/rotation, as it traveled back across the roadway, in a northwesterly direction, approaching the southbound travel lane and the west edge of the roadway. The driver of Vehicle 1, seeing the approach of Vehicle 2, steered right and entered a paved shoulder area at the western edge of the roadway. This avoidance attempt was unsuccessful and the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 2, at the paved shoulder area. As a result of this impact, Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise 180 degrees and came to rest at the west roadside, near the impact area, facing a northerly direction. Vehicle 2 departed the roadway as well, while rotating clockwise, and came to rest approximately 16-20 meters northwest of the impact area, partially in the drainage ditch, facing a westerly direction. As a result of the initial impact, the driver's advanced frontal impact air bag deployed for Vehicle 1 (pretensioner also actuated). It should also be noted that the right front occupant of Vehicle 2 was fully ejected, while a rear occupant of Vehicle 2 was partially ejected, during the impact and/or post impact movement to rest. Post-Crash: The 46-year old female driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by air, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was also transported to a local trauma center and hospitalized. The two passengers of Vehicle 2 (full and partial ejection) expired at the scene. Both vehicles were towed from the scene as a result of damage sustained in the crash.