Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 28-year old, female driver (case occupant), of a 2006 Dodge Magnum 4-door station wagon, which was involved in an off-set frontal impact with a 2003 Chevrolet Tahoe utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This three-vehicle collision occurred during the pre mid-day hour (daylight), of a fall weekday, on a two-lane bituminous roadway. This north/south roadway has a downhill grade (> 2%) for the northbound travel direction, as well as a right turning curve leading into a straight section of the roadway. The west edge of the roadway is bordered by a metal guardrail. The posted speed limit is 50 mph (80 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. The 28-year old female case occupant was operating Vehicle 1, the 2006 Dodge Magnum station wagon, in the southbound travel lane. She was traveling the straight section of the roadway, at a reasonable distance behind Vehicle 3 and intended to continue traveling southbound. She was restrained by a 3-point, lap/shoulder restraint and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags. Vehicle 2, a 2003 Chevrolet Tahoe utility vehicle, was traveling in the northbound travel lane, approaching the curved section of the roadway. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to negotiate the curved section and continue traveling north. Vehicle 3, a 2000 Toyota Tundra pick-up truck, was traveling southbound, ahead of Vehicle 1, approaching the curved section of roadway. The driver of Vehicle 3 intended to negotiate the curved section of roadway and continue traveling southbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 2 was unable to negotiate the right turning curve and entered the southbound travel lane, heading north. Vehicle 2's frontal plane struck the left side plane of Vehicle 3 (event 1). At this time, Vehicle 3 departed the west edge of the roadway striking the metal guardrail located there with its right plane (event 2) before coming to rest. Vehicle 2 continued on and struck Vehicle 1's frontal plane with its frontal plane in an off-set type frontal impact (event 3). Vehicle 1 subsequently struck the guardrail at the west roadway edge with its back right corner (sideswiping up the right side plane) and came to rest (event 4). Vehicle 2 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest in the travel lanes. As a result of Vehicle 1's impact with Vehicle 2 (event 3), Vehicle 1's advanced frontal air bag deployed (driver position). Post-Crash: The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The drivers of Vehicle 2 and Vehicle 3 were both transported to local hospitals with non-incapacitating injuries. The extent of their injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. All three involved vehicles were towed due to damage sustained in the crash.