This crash occurred in a 4-leg urban intersection. The north-south legs of the intersection are part of a divided trafficway comprised of 2 through lanes in each direction, divided by a rasied median with no barrier, with a dedicated left turn lane for each direction. The east-west legs of the intersection are comprised of 2 undivided travel lanes in each direction. The intersection is controlled by a traffic signal that was operating properly. When the crash occurred the traffic light was flashing yellow for north-south traffic and flashing red for east-west traffic. At the time of the crash it was dark, the street lights were lit, the weather was clear and the road surface was dry. Traffic density at that time of the day is light. Involved in the crash was the case vehicle (V1) a 2000 Saturn LS 2 4-door sedan equipped with manual 3-point lap and shoulder restraints for each outboard seating position. In addition to the manual restraints the case vehicle (V1) is also equipped with a driver and right passenger frontal impact air bags, both of which deployed in the crash. The driver of the case vehicle (V1) was a 17-year-old male. He was using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. Also involved in the crash was the Principal Other Vehicle (POV) (V2) a 1996 GMC Yukon 4-door Sport Utility Vehicle. The driver of the case vehicle (V1) struck his head and loss consciousness in the crash. He was removed from the vehicle by the paramedics and transported to the trauma center under a GCS < 13 trauma criterion. He was transported via helicopter arriving 57 minutes after the crash. The case vehicle (V1) was traveling in a westerly direction in the outside westbound lane. The POV (V2) was traveling in a northerly direction in the inside northbound through lane. As the case vehicle (V1) was passing through the intersection it was struck in the left side by the front of the POV (V2). V1 was re-directed to the right. The case vehicle departed the intersection at the north-west corner and struck a row of shrubs. After the case vehicle (V1) struck the shrubs, it passed through and sideswiped a tree with the right side of the vehicle. The case vehicle (V1) came to final rest with the right side of the vehicle still engaged with the tree. After the initial impact, the POV (V2) rotated in a counterclockwise direction and came to final rest within the intersection heading in a westerly direction.