This crash occurred in a 3-legged urban intersection. The main roadway of the intersection is a 2-lane undivided trafficway situated in a north to south configuration. The intersecting trafficway enters at 90 degrees from the right and is situated in an east to west configuration. At the time of the crash it was dark but the streetlights were lit. The weather was clear and the road surface was dry. Traffic for that time of the day can be moderate to heavy. Involved in the crash was the case vehicle (V1) a 2002 Lexus GS 300 4-door sedan equipped with manual 3-point lap and shoulder restraints for each seating position. In addition to the manual restraints the case vehicle is also equipped with a driver and right passenger frontal impact air bags as well as seat mounted side impact air bags and side roof rail mounted curtains. Both frontal impact air bags deployed in the crash, however, none of the side impact air bags nor curtains deployed in the crash. The driver of the case vehicle (V1) was a 28-year-old male. He was not using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. Also involved in the crash were two Principal Other Vehicles (POV's). POV 1 (V2) was a 1998 Ford Windstar Minivan and POV 2 (V3) was a 2001 Ford F-250 crew cab pick up truck. V1 was traveling in a northerly direction in the proper lane. V3 was traveling in a southerly direction in the proper lane and V2 was traveling in a westerly direction on the intersecting trafficway. The intersection is controlled by a stop sign, which controls the westbound traffic. As V1 crossed through the intersection V2 entered the intersection and struck V1 in the right front fender. This impact caused V1 to rotate in a counterclockwise direction as V2 rotated in a clockwise direction. V1 and V2 struck a second time in a side-slap impact. After the side-slap impact V1 and V2 separated. V1 continued forward in a northwesterly direction and crossed the centerline directly into the path of V3. V1 and V3 struck in a head-on impact. Both vehicles came to final rest near the point of impact, in the middle of the southbound lane. The driver of V1 struck his head in the impact and lost consciousness. However, he was awake when the paramedics arrived. Upon arrival the paramedics found the driver on the right side of the vehicle. The right front door of the case vehicle was jammed shut in the crash. The right front door was opened post crash and the driver was removed from the vehicle and transported to the trauma center via helicopter.