This crash occurred on a three lane undivided residential trafficway. The trafficway is situated in a north to south configuration and is comprised of 1 southbound travel lane and 1 northbound through lane as well as a dedicated left turn lane. North of the point of road departure and impact, the roadway passes through a three legged intersection, which enters from the east. The intersection did not play a part in the crash. North of the intersection the trafficway is comprised of 2 undivided travel lanes. At the time of the crash it was dark and the streetlights were lit. The weather was clear and the road surface was dry. Traffic for that time of the evening can be moderate to light. Involved in the crash was the case vehicle (V1) a 1998 Ferrari F355 Spider equipped with a manual 3-point lap and shoulder restraint for each seating position. In addition to the manual restraint V1 is also equipped with a driver and right passenger frontal impact air bags, both of which, deployed in the crash. The driver of V1 was a 47-year-old male. He was using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. The right seat was occupied by a 48-year-old male. He was also using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. V1 was traveling in a southerly direction in the proper lane. This vehicle was equipped with a servo controlled transmission and clutch. It does not have a clutch pedal but rather is controlled by a computer servo that shifts the transmission when the driver presses a switch located in the steering wheel rim. The driver of the case vehicle (V1) had recently purchased the vehicle and was still unfamiliar with the vehicles driving characteristics. As V1 proceeded south, the driver downshifted; when the transmission shifted the increased torque caused the driver to loose control of the vehicle. V1 veered to the left across the centerline, the driver steered to the right and applied the brakes, however he overcorrected and the case vehicle (V1) veered rapidly back to the right and the vehicle departed the roadway on the west side as it was rotating in a clockwise direction. At that time the left side of the case vehicle struck a wooden utility pole. This impact was to the left front fender area just forward of the LF suspension. After the impact, V1 rotated in a clockwise direction and separated from the pole, coming to final rest facing in a southeasterly direction across the southbound lane. The driver of V1 lost consciousness in the crash; however he was awake on arrival of the paramedics. He was removed from the vehicle and transported to the trauma center under a "high suspicion of injury" trauma criterion via ambulance. The right front occupant did not meet trauma criteria and was transported to a local hospital where he was treated and released.