This crash occurred on a 2-lane residential trafficway. The trafficway is situated in an east to west configuration and is comprised of 1 lane in each direction. At the time of the crash it was daylight, the weather was clear and the road surface was dry. Traffic for that time of the day is usually light to moderate. Involved in the crash was the case vehicle, (V1) a 2000 Dodge Durango 4-door SUV equipped with a 3-point manual lap and shoulder restraints for each outboard seating position. In addition to the manual restraints V1 was also equipped with a driver and right passenger frontal impact air bags, both of which deployed in the crash. The driver and case occupant of V1 was a 38-year-old female. She was using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. Sitting in the right front seat, also a case occupant, was a 60-year-old female. She was also using the available manual restraint. The left rear seat was occupied by a 20-year-old male. He was not using the available manual restraint. The right rear seat was occupied by an 11-year-old male child. He was also not using the available manual restraint. Also involved in the crash was the Principal Other Vehicle (POV) (V2) a 1995 Oldsmobile Cutlass 4-door sedan. V1 was traveling in an easterly direction in the proper lane. V2 was traveling in a westerly direction in the proper lane. V2 was being driven by an underage driver without a proper driver license. As V2 proceeded west, the driver lost control of the vehicle, it crossed the roadway centerline and proceeded west in the eastbound lane. V2 struck V1 in a head-on collision. At impact, V1 was pushed rearward and laterally to the right and came to final rest on the grass which borders the north side of the road. At impact, V2 rotated in a counterclockwise direction approximately 180 degrees and came to final rest on the roadway centerline facing in an easterly direction. The driver of V1 did not loose consciousness in the crash. The LF door was jammed shut in the crash. Upon arrival paramedics needed to cut open the driver door to remove her from the vehicle. She did sustain lower extremity injuries and was transported to the trauma center with a "high suspicion of injury" trauma criterion. She was transported to the trauma center via helicopter arriving 1 hour and 9 minutes after the crash. The right front occupant was found dead at the scene. Upon arrival, paramedics found her outside the vehicle. She was transported to the medical examiners facility by a morgue vehicle.