This crash occurred in a 4-legged urban intersection. The legs of the intersection are situated in a north to south and an east to west configuration. Each leg of the intersection is comprised of one travel lane for each direction and a dedicated left turn lane. At the time of the crash it was early morning, dark and the street lights were lit. The weather was clear and the road surface was dry. Traffic for that time of the day is normally light. Traffic is controlled by a traffic signal which for that time of the day, is set to blinking yellow for the east to west traffic and blinking red for the north to south traffic. Involved in the crash was the case vehicle (V1) a 2004 Chevrolet Colorado 4-door pickup truck equipped with manual 3-point lap and shoulder restraints for each seating position. In addition to the manual restraints V1 is also equipped with a driver and right passenger frontal impact air bags. The lateral impact did not sustain sufficient deceleration to deploy the frontal impact air bags. The driver of V1(case occupant) was a 23-year-old male. He was not using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. The right front seat was occupied by a 25-year-old male. He was not using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. Also involved in the crash was the Principal Other Vehicle (POV)(V2) a 1997 Chevrolet C3500 4-door pickup truck. V1 was traveling in a northerly direction in the proper lane. V2 was traveling in an easterly direction in the proper lane. As V2 was passing through the intersection under a flashing yellow light, V1 crossed directly in front of the V2. V2 struck V1 in the left front fender area. This impact caused V1 to begin to rotate in a clockwise direction as V2 was rotating in a counterclockwise direction. The left side of V1 and the right side of V2 struck a second time in a sideslap impact. After this second impact the two vehicles separated and V2 came to final rest in the middle of the intersection. After the sideslap impact, the case vehicle departed the intersection at the northeast corner and struck a cable anchor located in the ground. This impact was to the center of the front bumper. The cable anchor was in place to hold a cable strong back for the signal support pole also located at the northeast corner of the intersection. The cable was missing prior to the crash and only the cable anchor was still in place. The impact bent the cable anchor out of the way as V1 rolled to its final rest position. During the crash sequence the driver contacted and shattered the left front window glass with his head. The driver loss consciousness as a result of the head strike. He was awake upon arrival of the paramedics. He was removed from V1 by the paramedics and transported to the trauma center under a high suspicion of injury trauma criterion. He was transported via helicopter to a local trauma center.