This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of two case occupants in opposing vehicles. The first case occupant was a 57-year-old female belted driver with a deployed frontal airbag. This occupant sustained serious injuries in a frontal impact. She was driving a 2006 Kia Sorento compact utility vehicle (V1) which impacted a 2007 Suzuki XL7 compact utility vehicle (V2) head-on with approximately 70% overlap. This investigation also focused on the injury mechanisms of the opposing vehicle driver, a 16-year-old female belted driver with deployed frontal and side curtain airbags. This occupant sustained moderate injuries in a frontal impact with the other case vehicle. The crash occurred late afternoon in clear weather on a dry roadway. A 2006 Kia Sorento compact utility vehicle (V1) was traveling south on a three-lane, two-way rural bituminous highway. V1 was approaching an intersection with a side road on the right. The grade for V1's approach was 3% uphill. A 2007 Suzuki XL7 compact utility vehicle (V2) was traveling northeast towards a stop sign at the same intersection. The grade for V2 was 3% downhill. V2 arrived at the intersection and began turning left, crossing into V1's lane of travel. V1 and V2 collided head-on in a full frontal configuration (Event 1). V1 traveled a short distance and came to rest in the roadway. V2 rotated clockwise 160 degrees, traveled a short distance south and then came to rest in the roadway. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. V1 was driven by a 57-year-old female case occupant. She was belted, but the available retractor pretensioner did not actuate. The steering wheel hub airbag deployed, but the available curtain airbags did not deploy. The driver was transported to a local trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of serious injuries. V2 was driven by a 16-year-old female case occupant. She was belted, but as for the other case vehicle the available retractor pretensioner did not actuate. The steering wheel hub and both curtain airbags deployed. This vehicle was not equipped with side seat back airbags. The driver was transported to a local hospital by ground ambulance where she was transferred to a trauma center for treatment of moderate injuries.