This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 24-year-old male belted driver with deployed airbags. He sustained critical injuries in a multi-event collision with a metal W-beam guardrail. The crash occurred early morning on a dry roadway under clear skies. It was dark with no street lighting. A 2011 Nissan Sentra intermediate size sedan (Vehicle 1) was traveling northeast on an interstate highway negotiating a right curve. The cement roadway was part of a divided traffic way, which was one-way with three lanes and a 3% downhill grade. As V1 negotiated the right curve, it departed the road surface to the left and entered the grass median, beginning a clockwise yaw. After traveling a considerable distance in the median area, V1 struck a steel guardrail end terminal, which is designed to attenuate impact, with its front plane (Event 1). The circumstances of the impact caused the W-beam guardrail to fold into a point. As V1 continued rotating clockwise, this folded guardrail point contacted the left front door (Event 2) and penetrated through the vehicle, coming out the second row right door. The momentum of V1 while impaled on the guardrail caused V1 to swing around counter-clockwise in a pendulum-like fashion. The front of V1 impacted the face of the guardrail (Event 3). V1 came to final rest against the face of the guardrail. After extensive extrication actions of rescue personnel, V1 was towed due to damage. The 24-year-old male driver was belted with an actuated retractor pretensioner. No anchor or buckle pretensioners were installed. There was severe loading to the belt which included webbing payout, a scuffed and cracked plastic latch plate, and a buckle receiver which was ripped open by the force on the belt. This force was attributed to the intruding guardrail pushing the left hip of the driver to the right. The steering wheel hub, left curtain, left outboard seatback, and right front instrument panel airbags deployed. The right curtain and outboard seat back airbags did not deploy. This occupant was reportedly pinned between the intruded guardrail point and the second row right door. After extrication, he was transported to a local trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of critical injuries. The case vehicle was also occupied by a 24-year-old male right front belted occupant who suffered police-reported incapacitating injuries. His retractor pretensioner was actuated, and he had the benefit of a deployed right front instrument panel airbag. The right curtain and outboard seat back airbags did not deploy. He was transported to a local hospital by ground ambulance for treatment.