This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an 18-year-old female belted driver with a deployed frontal airbag. This occupant was driving a full size sedan when she sustained moderate injuries in a head-on, small overlap crash with a large pickup truck resulting in severe damage to the case vehicle. The crash occurred during early morning daylight hours on a dry road. A 2006 Pontiac G6 full size sedan (Vehicle 1) was traveling east negotiating a left curve up a 7% grade. A 2006 Ford F-150 large pickup (Vehicle 2) was traveling west in the opposite direction negotiating the curve to the right and traveling down a 7% grade. The superelevation of the curve measured 11%. V1 crossed the center line and began traveling partially in the oncoming lane of travel. The front plane of V1 struck the front plane of V2 (Event 1) in a small overlap configuration. After impact, V1 departed the road to the right, leaving several gouges in the right lane before coming to rest on the south side of the road. The impact caused V2 to travel off its right side of the road, also leaving a gouge in the road. V2 then traversed a steep downwards embankment and rolled right one complete turn (Event 2), coming to rest upright in the north roadside. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. V1 was operated by an 18-year-old female driver. She was wearing her lap and shoulder belt as evidenced by loading to the webbing and rescue personnel cutting the belt for extrication. The retractor pretensioner was actuated at impact. There were no buckle or anchor pretensioners installed. The steering wheel hub airbag deployed at impact. The available mid right instrument panel airbag did not deploy. No other airbags were installed. This occupant was transported to a local trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of moderate injuries. The case vehicle was also occupied by a 16-month-old female second row right passenger. She was seated in a child seat and transported with police-reported minor injuries. There were no available airbags for her seating position.