This T-bone crash case (farside) involves an 18 year old restrained male seated in the 2nd row, right seating position with a deployed air bag who sustained a moderate injury. The crash occurred during the afternoon hours in wet and rainy weather. The collision occurred on a two-lane bituminous road (north/ south) at the crest of a hill. At the point of the collision there is a one-way bituminous driveway which is an entrance to a parking lot. The case vehicle (V1) a 2006 four-door Audi A4 was being driven westbound attempting to exit from the entrance of the parking lot. Vehicle #2 (V2) a 1993 two-door Ford F250 4x4 pickup truck was being driven northbound. The crash occurred when as V2 began to crest the hill, V1 entered the roadway (from the driveway) accelerating and attempting to execute a left turn to travel southbound. V2 tried to avoid the crash by steering to the left but was unable to and impacted its front with the left side of V1. After initial impact V1 rotated in a counter clockwise direction, impacting the south curb with its right rear rim before traveling to final rest partially off the south road edge facing south. After initial impact, V2 rotated counter clockwise 80 degrees and slightly forward before traveling to its final resting position in the middle of the roadway facing west. V1 and V2 were both towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. Our case occupant was an 18 year old who was seated in the 2nd row right seating position who was restrained by the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt. It is unknown if the available rear pretensioners actuated. The available curtain air bag did deploy for this seating position but it is not known which event deployed it. The case occupant received a serious injury and was transported by ground ambulance for treatment of his injury. There were three other occupants in the vehicle at the time of the crash. V1 was driven by an 18 year old male (non-case occupant) who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag did not deploy as a result of the impact. The available seat back mounted air bag and the roof side rail mounted curtain air bag did deploy as a result of the crash. It should be noted the driver's seatback mounted air bag flap opened but the air bag was unable to completely inflate due to b-pillar and door intrusion. This occupant was transferred to a local hospital and released with only minor injuries. The 18 year old male front right passenger (non-case occupant) was restrained by the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available instrument panel mounted air bag did not deploy as a result of the impact. The available seat back mounted air bag and the roof side rail mounted curtain air bag did deploy as a result of the crash. This non-case occupant was not injured in the crash and did not receive any treatment. There was an 18 year old female non-case occupant seated in the 2nd row left seating position who was not restrained by the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt. The available curtain air bag did deploy for this seating position. This occupant was out of position at the time of the crash. She was sitting slightly forward and to the right with her upper torso leaning completely down and on a diagonal between the two front seats. This occupant had a book bag positioned between her chest and lap. This occupant was transported to a local hospital and released with only minor injuries.