This frontal crash case involves a 23 year old restrained female seated in the front right seating position with deployed air bag who sustained serious injuries. This frontal crash also involves a 21 year old restrained female seated in the 2nd row right seating position who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred during the early morning hours (dark, with no lights) in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred on a two lane bituminous roadway within the confines of an s-curve with curve warning signs present. The roadway has a negative grade and is seperated by a solid double line. The case vehicle (V1) a 2007 four-door Jeep Liberty was being driven northwest. The crash occurred when V1 lost control exiting a left curve and traveled off the right side road edge and impacted a large tree (47 inches wide) with its front bumper area. This was V1's final resting position after impact. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V1 was driven by the 22 year old female non-case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner did actuate). The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed as a result of the impact. The driver was not injured in the crash and not transported to a medical facility. The front right 23 year old female case occupant was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner did actuate) and the available bottom mounted instrument panel passenger air bag deployed as a result of the impact. This case occupants seat was positioned between middle and rear most track position and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The lower seat back was deformed longitudinally 5 cm from the 2nd row right occupant. There was a 21 year old female case occupant who was seated in the 2nd row right seating position and she was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt. There are no air bags available at this seating position and the seat is not adjustable. The entire 2nd row seat backs were deformed 25 cm (max) by cargo from behind. Both case occupants were seriously injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of their injuries.