This nearside crash case involves a 47 year old restrained male seated in the front left seating position (driver) with deployed air bags who sustained critical injuries. The crash occurred during the evening hours (20:44/dark but lighted) in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred within the confines of a 4-way intersection. At this intersection there are four (slightly curved to the right) level bituminous northbound travel lanes (two straight, one left turn and one right lane) and two level bituminous southbound lanes. The north and south travel lanes leading up to the intersection limits are separated by a raised curb. This roadway is intersected by a five lane (-2.1% sloped) bituminous roadway (three eastbound lanes and two westbound lanes). The east and west travel lanes are separated by a raised curb. This intersection is controlled by traffic control devices (traffic signals) in each direction. The speed limit for north and south traffic was 50 mph (80 kmph) and 45 mph (72 kmph) for east and west. The case vehicle (V1), a 2003 four-door Buick LeSabre, was being driven northbound in the left straight lane and vehicle two (V2), a 2010 five-door Ford Flex, was being driven eastbound. The crash occurred when V2, for unknown medical reasons, traveled across the raised curb and into the westbound travel lane (traveling in the wrong direction). As V2 entered the intersection, the driver locked up its brakes and entered the intersection impacting the left side of V1 with its front. After initial impact, V1 traveled in a northeast direction off the roadway, impacting its right side with the ground (no rollover) at final rest. V2 rotated 60 degrees (CCW) before traveling to its final resting position off the northeast road edge, facing north. V1 and V2 were both towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V1 was driven by the 47 year old male case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (integrated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag and the seat back side mounted air bag both deployed as a result of the impact. This case occupant's seat was positioned between middle and forward most and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The case occupant was critically injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by air for treatment of his injuries.