This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 22 year old male driver of a 2003 Jeep Liberty compact utility vehicle. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags (for driver and front right passenger positions). None of the vehicle's air bags deployed as a result of a severe right side impact with a 2001 Dodge B3500 Ram Van (Vehicle 2). This occupant sustained serious injuries. This investigation also focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 22 year old female front right seat passenger of the 2003 Jeep Liberty compact utility vehicle. This occupants frontal air bag did not depoloy as a result of the severe right side Impact with a 2001 Dodge B3500 Ram Van (Vehicle 2). This occupant sustained moderate injuries. The crash occurred during the evening hours in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred within the confines of a 3-way (T) intersection. At this intersection there are two level bituminous northbound travel lanes with a dedicated left turn only lane. There are four level bituminous southbound lanes (two straight and one left turn lane and one right turn lane). The North and South travel lanes leading up to the intersection limits are separated by a grassy median. The North and South roadway is intersected by a three lane, level, bituminous roadway with three travel lanes (one westbound lane and two eastbound lanes). This roadway intersects the North/South roadway at a 60 degree angle. The entire T-intersection is controlled by traffic signals for all travel directions. The case vehicle (V1), a 2003 five-door Jeep Liberty, was being driven northbound (left turn lane) and vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Dodge B3500 Ram van, was being driven southbound (left /straight lane). The crash occurred when V1, for unknown reasons, entered into the intersection in an attempt to execute a left turn to travel west when it was impacted on the right side by V2. After initial impact, V1 began to rotate clockwise in a southwest direction before traveling to its final resting position in the southwest quadrant of the intersection facing southeast. After initial impact, V2 rotated 90 degrees before rolling one quarter turn before traveling to its final resting position on its driver's side in the southwest quadrant of the intersection facing northwest. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V1 was driven by the 22 year old male case occupant who was not restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag did not deploy as a result of the impact. This case occupant's seat was positioned at rear most and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The case occupant was transported to a level 1 trauma center by ground helicopter for treatment of his injuries. The front right passenger, a 22 year old female case occupant, was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available instrument panel mounted air bag did not deploy as a result of the impact. This case occupant's seat was positioned at rear most and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The case occupant was transported to a level 1 trauma center by helicopter for treatment of her injuries.