This frontal crash case involves a 78 year old restrained female seated in the front right seating position with deployed air bag who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred during the evening hours (dark, with no lights) in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred on a bituminous three lane one way northbound roadway. This level roadway is slightly curved to the left and has a shoulder on each side. The case vehicle (V1) a 2004 four-door Volvo S60 was being driven north bound in the left lane and Vehicle two (V2) a 1993 Ford Explorer (SUV) was being driven southbound in the north bound left travel lane. The crash occurred when V2, for unknown reasons entered the northbound travel lanes from an exit ramp (traveling the wrong direction) resulting in an offset frontal crash configuration for both vehicles. After initial impact, V1 rotated clockwise 90 degrees before traveling to its final resting position partially off the shoulder facing east. V2 continued traveling southbound rotating approximately 80 degrees clockwise to final rest facing west . V1 and V2 were towed from scene due to damage sustained in the crash. The front right, 78 year old female case occupant was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available front instrument panel air bag, side seat back mounted air bag and the roof side rail mounted curtain air bag all deployed as a result of the impact. This case occupant's seat was positioned at the middle position and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. There was also a 48 year old female (driver) who was strained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed as a result of the impact. The available side seat back mounted air bag and the roof side rail mounted curtain air bag did not deploy as a result of the impact. This case occupants seat was positioned at the middle position and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. There was a 19 year old female occupant seated in the 2nd row left seating position who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt. The available roof side rail mounted curtain air bag did not deploy as a result of the impact. The case occupant was seriously injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of her injuries. The other two occupants of V1 were transported to local hospitals where they were admitted for treatment of their injuries.