This frontal crash case involves an 83 year old restrained female seated in the front left seating position (driver) with a deployed air bag who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred during the afternoon hours in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred within the limits of a 4-way intersection. There are six bituminous travel lanes, four northbound lanes and two southbound lanes seperated by a raised curb. This road is intersected by five bituminous travel lanes with three eastbound lanes and two westbound lanes divided by a double yellow line. This intersection is controlled by a traffic control device. The case vehicle (V1), a 2002 four-door Honda CR-V, was being driven northbound (left straight lane) and vehicle two (V2), a 2003 four-door Toyota Corolla, was being driven eastbound (right curb lane). The crash occurred when V2, for unknown reasons, entered into the intersection and impacted its front with the left side (door) of V1. After initial impact, V1 was forced off the northeast quadrant of the intersection and off the roadway and impacted a concrete light post with its front at final rest. V2 rotated 90 degrees traveling to its final resting position in the southeast quadrant of the intersection facing north. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V1 was driven by the 83 year old female case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor & buckle type pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed as a result of the impact. This case occupant's seat was positioned between middle and forward most and the seat back was in the upright position. The case occupant was seriously injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of her injuries. There was also a 67 year old male front right seat occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor & buckle type pretensioner actuated). The available instrument panel air bag deployed as a result of the impact. This occupant's seat was positioned between middle and rear most and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The occupant was moderately injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of his injuries.