This frontal crash case involves a 62 year old restrained female driver seated in the front left seating position (driver) with a deployed air bag who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred during the late morning hours (11:15) in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred on a two lane roadway just south of an intersection. There is one northbound travel lane that is bituminous and has a positive 3% grade leading up to impact and one southbound bituminous travel lane that has a negative 2% grade leading to impact. This roadway is separated by a double yellow line. Just prior to impact, there is a four legged intersection with one lane (east and west) in each direction and is controlled by stop signs. The east/west roadway is intersected by one north and one southbound lane. The case vehicle (V1), a 2002 five-door Subaru Legacy, was being driven southbound and vehicle two (V2), a 1990 International 4600 Dump truck, was being driven northbound. The crash occurred when V2 was traveling northbound. As he approached the four-legged intersection, the driver noticed that two vehicles in front of him had stopped (waiting to make a left turn) and he steered to the left and applied his brakes in order to avoid the crash. As V2 locked up his brakes, he skidded into the southbound lane impacting the front of V1 with his front. After initial impact, V1 rotated slightly clockwise before traveling off the south road edge and traveled approximately 60 feet to its final resting position off the roadway facing south. After initial impact, V2 rotated 125 degrees counter clockwise before traveling to its final resting position in the middle of the roadway facing southwest. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V1 was driven by the 62 year old female case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed as a result of the impact. This case occupant's seat was positioned between middle and rear most and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The case occupant was transported to a level 1 trauma center by air for treatment of her injuries.