This frontal crash case involves a 47 year old restrained male seated in the front right seating position with a deployed frontal IP air bag who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred during the evening hours in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred in an intersection located within the confines of an interchange. Just prior to this intersection there are three level bituminous northbound travel lanes (one straight and two left turn lanes) and two level bituminous southbound lanes (two straight lanes). There are also two southbound right turn travel lanes prior to the gore of the interchange. The North and South travel lanes leading up to the intersection are separated by a raised curb. Within the interchange there are two sets of ramps entering and two sets of ramps leaving the intersection. The entire interchange is controlled by traffic lights. The case vehicle (V1), a 2007 four-door Pontiac G6, was being driven southbound (left straight lane) and vehicle two (V2), a 2010 four-door Lincoln MKS, was being driven northbound in the outside left turn lane. The crash occurred as V2 entered the intersection attempting to execute a left turn (onto the entrance ramp) to travel west and impacted its front right with the front left of V1. After initial impact, V1 began to rotate clockwise 100 degrees in a northwest direction before traveling to final rest. V2 rotated counter clockwise 45 degrees before traveling to final resting position facing west. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. The 47 year old male case occupant was seated in the front right seating position was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available passenger front IP air bag did deploy as a result of the impact but the side curtain air bag did not. This case occupant's seat was positioned between middle and rear most and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The case occupant was seriously injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of his injuries. V1 was driven by a 46 year old female non-case occupant who was not restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag did deploy as a result of the impact but the side curtain air bag did not. This occupant's seat was positioned between middle and rear most and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The non-case occupant was transported to a level 1 trauma center with moderate injuries by ground ambulance for treatment and was released the same night.