This frontal crash case involves a 19 year old restrained female seated in the front left seating position (Driver) with a deployed air bag who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred in the early evening hours (daylight) in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred on a two- lane bituminous roadway that curved to the right at the point of control loss (for case vehicle). This roadway has one westbound travel lane (separated by a double yellow line) and one eastbound travel lane. Prior to the right curve in the roadway (westbound) there is a curve warning sign with a speed advisory of 40 mph for our case vehicle. The posted speed limit for this roadway is 55 mph (89 kmph). The case vehicle (V1), a 2003 four-door Saturn Ion 2 was being driven westbound and vehicle (V2), a 1995 three-door Plymouth Voyager Minivan was being driven eastbound. The crash occurred when V1, for unknown reasons, lost control as it exited a right curve and traveled across the double yellow line (in a straight path) and impacted V2's front bumper with its front bumper. After initial impact, V1 rotated counterclockwise before traveling to its final resting position in the middle of the roadway facing north. After initial impact V2 traveled in a southeasterly direction before traveling to final rest off the edge of the eastbound road edge facing east. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash and there was approximately 20 minutes of extrication for each of the drivers. V1 was driven by the 19 year old female case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed as a result of the crash. This case occupant's seat track was positioned between forward most and middle and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The case occupant was seriously injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by helicopter for treatment of her injuries.