This nearside crash case involves a 51 year old restrained female seated in the front left seating position (Driver) with a deployed curtain air bag who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred in the morning hours (daylight) in dry and clear weather within the confines of a four legged intersection. There are three level bituminous northbound travel lanes (two straight lanes and one left turn lane) and three southbound level bituminous travel lanes (two straight lanes and one left turn lane). The north and south travel lanes are separated by a raised median and are intersected by two westbound lanes and one eastbound lane (for the westbound direction) This intersection is controlled by a traffic light in all directions. The posted speed limit for all directions is 35 mph (56 kmph). The case vehicle (V1), a 2004 four-door Mazda 6 was being driven westbound in the left turn only lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 four-door Honda Odyssey minivan was being driven northbound and vehicle three (V3), a 1995 four-door Chevrolet Suburban was being driven eastbound. Vehicle #1 was traveling westbound in the left turn only lane attempting to execute a left turn in order to travel south. Vehicle #2 was traveling northbound in the left straight lane attempting to travel through the intersection. V3 was traveling eastbound in the left turn lane attempting to execute a left turn to travel north. The crash occurred when V1 entered the intersection and was impacted on the left side by the front of V2. After initial impact, V1 traveled in a northwest direction impacting the right side of V3 with its front bumper before traveling to final rest position facing northwest. After initial impact, V2 continued in a northwest direction before traveling to its final rest position in the middle of the intersection. The final resting position of V3 is unknown due to it being removed from the intersection by the owner. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V3 was not towed from the scene. V1 was driven by the 51 year old female case occupant and was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed in the crash as a result of the impact. This case occupant's seat track was positioned at middle track position and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The driver's seat track was deformed do to door and b-pillar intrusion. The case occupant was seriously injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of her injuries.