This multiple event crash case involves a 26 year old restrained female seated in the front left seating position (Driver) with a deployed steering wheel mounted air bag who sustained severe injuries. The crash occurred in the daylight hours in dry and clear weather. There are four bituminous eastbound travel lanes (two straight lanes and one turn lane) and three westbound bituminous travel lanes (three straight lanes). The West and East travel lanes are separated by a raised curb median and there is a -3% grade for the eastbound travel direction. The posted speed limit for the west/east roadway is 40 mph (64 kmph). The case vehicle (V1), a 2010 four-door Toyota RAV-4, was being driven eastbound. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 4-door Toyota Camry, was being driven eastbound in front of V1. Vehicle #1 was traveling eastbound in the center straight lane and Vehicle #2 was traveling eastbound in the center straight lane in front of V1. Due to a medical episode, the driver of V1 passed out causing the vehicle to travel from the right side of the travel lane to the left impacting the rear of V2. V1 then traveled around V2 (on its left) in the left straight lane before traveling back across the eastbound lanes and impacting a light pole with its front bumper at final rest off the east road edge. After initial impact, V2 pulled off the right side of the roadway waiting to exchange information with V1. V1was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash whileV2 did not require towing. V1 was driven by the 26 year old female case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed in the crash. The seat back mounted air bag and the side curtain air bag did not deploy. This case occupant's seat track was positioned at middle and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The case occupant was severely injured and transported to a local hospital first before being transferred to a level 1 trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of her injuries. Investigators note: After V2 was impacted by V1, the passenger of V2 stated that he looked to the left as V1 passed their vehicle and noticed that the driver of V1 was slumped over the steering wheel. He did not see the driver's air bag deployed at this time.