This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 18 year old female driver of a 2013 Ford Focus 4-door hatchback. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. Event #1 involved the front of V1 impacting the rear of V2. The driver's space was also equipped with a knee bolster air bag. The driver's frontal and knee bolster air bags deployed as a result of a rear-end collision with a 1992 Honda Prelude 2-door coupe (Vehicle 2 - event 1). The 2013 Ford Focus was also equipped with seat back mounted side air bags for the front seating positions and curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions (non-deployed). Vehicle 1 was northbound on a (level) multi-lane divided interstate highway and proceeding straight in the outboard travel lane. The north/southbound travel lanes were divided, and bordered by, W-beam guardrails. It was dawn; with rainy weather conditions as the roads were wet. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 65 mph (105 km/h). The driver of Vehicle 1 failed to observe traffic (congestion) stopped ahead, as the frontal area subsequently impacted the back of Vehicle 2 (event 1). This initial impact resulted in moderate damage, and re-directed Vehicle 1 across the northbound lanes towards the center median. The initial impact also produced a chain of secondary impacts within the northbound outboard lane; as Vehicle 2 struck the back of Vehicle 3 (a 2003 Audi TT convertible - event 2) and Vehicle 3 struck the back of Vehicle 4 (a 2013 Honda CR-V sport utility - event 4). At this point, Vehicle 1 entered the northbound inboard travel lane and across the path of Vehicle 5 (a 2014 Kenworth semi tractor with semi-trailer). The back left area of Vehicle 1 was impacted by the front of Vehicle 5 (event 3). This event resulted in severe back damage to Vehicle 1. Vehicle 1 continued in a northwesterly direction as the front left area struck the W-beam guardrail along the center median (event 5), resulting in (overlapping) moderate damage. Vehicle 1 then spun counterclockwise off of the guardrail face and re-entered the northbound inboard travel lane, and (once again), across the path of Vehicle 5. The frontal area of Vehicle 1 was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 5 which resulted in additional overlapping moderate damage (event 6). Following the final impact, Vehicle 1 came to rest on the inboard northbound travel lane, facing southeast. Vehicle 5 came to rest just south of Vehicle 1 along the inboard travel lane, facing north. Vehicles 2, 3, and 4 came to rest in the outboard northbound travel lane (in close proximity to their respective point of impact) facing north. The unrestrained 18 year old female driver of the 2013 Ford Focus was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. The lack of restraint use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, relative to the extent of contacts into interior components. Furthermore, the driver and front right retractor pretensioners were not actuated. At event 1, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the deployed knee bolster air bag and deployed frontal air bag. Interaction with the deployed air bags were evidenced by the scuff marks documented on the face of each membrane. At event 3, the out-of-position driver was re-directed rearward in response to the 6 o'clock impact force and loaded the front left seat back. This trajectory was evidenced by the rearward deformation identified on this component. At events 5 and/or 6, the driver was again re-directed in a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force. The driver probably loaded through the deflated frontal air bag and deformed the steering wheel rim, as evidenced by the deformation noted on the upper and lower aspects of this component. Following the crash, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital and subsequently transferred to a nearby trauma center where she was admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. Vehicles 1, 2, and 3 were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage as Vehicles 4 and 5 were driven from the scene.