This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 55 year old female driver of a 2006 Toyota Camry LE 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of a head-on collision with a 2013 Hyundai Elantra GLS 4-door sedan (Vehicle 2). The case vehicle was also equipped with side air bags for the front outboard seating positions, and curtain air bags for all outboard seating positons (non-deployed). Vehicle 1 was southbound on a multi-lane (level) urban roadway and proceeding straight on the inboard through lane. The crash occurred on a hillcrest, just north of a 4-leg intersection, as the north/southbound lanes were divided by a grass median. It was dark (street lighted), with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The speed limit at the crash site was 72 km/h (45 mph). The police reported that Vehicle 2 was traveling northbound in the southbound travel lanes, in the direct path of the southbound Toyota. Both vehicles subsequently collided in a full frontal configuration, which resulted in moderately severe damage. At this point, Vehicle 1 rebounded and rotated clockwise to final rest in the southbound inboard travel lane facing northwest. Vehicle 2 rotated clockwise and came to rest straddling the southbound through lanes facing southwest. After V2 traveled to its final resting poistion, a fire began in the engine compartment which was subsequently extinguished by the fire department. The restrained 55 year old female driver of the 2006 Toyota Camry was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-forward track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, knee bolster, and deployed frontal air bag. Pronounced scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster. A scuff mark was also documented on the lower aspect of the steering column, and attributed to right thigh engagement. A small fracture (with displacement) was found on the adjacent fuse panel cover, and attributed to possible left arm/hand contact. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the faint scuff marks noted across the face of the membrane. In addition, the upper/lower portion of the steering wheel rim was deformed, indicative of possible driver loading through the deployed frontal air bag. Following the collision, the restrained 55 year old female driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injuries. The restrained 77 year old male front right passenger, and unrestrained 74 year old male rear right passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local hospital. The front right passenger expired prior to admission, as the rear right passenger was treated and released. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.