This frontal crash case involves a 43 year old restrained male case occupant seated in the front left seating position (Driver) with a deployed front steering wheel and a knee bolster air bag who sustained moderate injuries. There was also a 14 year old restrained male non-case occupant seated in the front right seating position with deployed front instrument panel, seat back, and roof side rail curtain air bags who sustained minor injuries. The crash occurred in the evening hours (dark, but lighted) in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred on a five lane, bituminous northbound trafficway that has four straight level travel lanes and one left exit lane. There are shoulders on both side of this roadway. The case vehicle (V1), a 2010 four-door Ford Fusion, was being driven northbound in the left exit lane at the time of the crash. Vehicle (V2), a 2005 four-door Jeep Grand Cherokee, was being driven northbound in the left exit lane directly in front of V1. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage suffered in the crash. Vehicle #1 was traveling northbound in the left turn lane (beginning of exit lane). Vehicle #2 was traveling northbound in front of V1 in the left turn lane. The crash occurred as V2 began to slow down due to slowed traffic in front and was impacted on the right rear by the front left of V1. After impact, V1 traveled in a northern direction traveling to final rest on the north shoulder just ahead of V2. After initial impact V2 rotated counter clockwise 160 degrees traveling off the North roadway and onto the shoulder impacting its right side with a guardrail. V2 rotated an additional 40 yards before traveling to its final resting position against the guardrail facing South. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V1 was driven by the 40 year old male case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag and the left knee bolster air bags deployed as a result of the crash. The seat back mounted and roof side rail curtain air bag did not deploy as a result of the crash. This case occupant's seat track was positioned between forward most and middle and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The driver's seat was power assisted and measurements were taken although there was no seat deformation. The case occupant was moderately injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of his injuries. There was also a 14 year old male front seat passenger (non-case occupant) who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available instrument panel mounted, seat back mounted, and roof side rail curtain air bags all deployed as a result of the crash. This non-case occupant's seat track was positioned between middle and rear most and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. This non-case occupant received minor injuries and was transported to a local trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of his injuries and released a short time later.