This frontal crash involves a 35 year old restrained male seated in the front left (Driver) seating position with a deployed steering wheel air bag who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred in the evening hours (dark but lighted) in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred on a two lane divided (without positive barrier) bituminous level roadway just west of an intersection. At the area of impact there are two westbound travel lanes and three eastbound lanes. The East and West travel lanes are separated by a grassy median and there are traffic control devices (signal) for each direction. The case vehicle (V1), a 2001 four-door Nissan Sentra, was being driven westbound in the right lane at the time of the crash. Vehicle two (V2), a 2008 New Flyer Transit Bus, was being driven westbound in the right lane at the time of the crash. Vehicle #1 was traveling eastbound in the right lane and Vehicle #2 was stopped just east of V1, discharging passengers. Once the driver of V1 realized that V2 had stopped he tried to brake and steer to the left but was unable to avoid the crash and impacted the rear of V2. After initial impact V1 rotated approximately 15 degrees clockwise before traveling to its final resting position. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V2 was able to continue on after the crash as it received minor damage to its rear bumper. The 35 year old male case occupant was seated in the front left seating position and was restrained by the available 3-point manual safety belt. The retractor type pretensioner did actuate and the available steering wheel air bag deployed as a result of the crash. This case occupant's seat was positioned between middle and rear most position and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. There was seat support deformation to the driver's seat. The case occupant was injured in the crash but did not go directly to a medical facility for treatment. The following day our case occupant was transported to a level 1 trauma center (by family) for treatment of his injuries sustained in the crash.