This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 65 year old female driver of a 2003 Mercedes Benz C240 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), door mounted side air bags (for all outboard seating positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver frontal air bag deployed as a result of a right angle impact with a 2007 New Flyer transit bus (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of an urban 4-leg intersection. The asphalt (level) north/southbound trafficway consisted of seven travel lanes which were divided by a raised concrete median. The asphalt east/westbound trafficway consisted of six travel lanes which crested at the intersection and were also divided by a raised concrete median. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by overhead tri-lights. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The speed limit for both trafficways was 35 mph (72 km/h). The case vehicle was traveling southbound on the inboard through lane and proceeding straight. Vehicle 2 was traveling eastbound on the outboard through lane and proceeding straight. As both vehicles entered the intersection, the right front side surface of Vehicle 1 was impacted by the front left area of Vehicle 2 (event 1). The impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, the back area of Vehicle 1 was struck by Vehicle 3, a 1997 Honda Civic DX 2-door hatchback, traveling southbound behind Vehicle 1 (event 2). This secondary impact resulted in minor damage to Vehicle 1. All three vehicles came to rest in close proximity to their respective point of impact in the intersection. Vehicle 1 came to rest facing southeast, Vehicle 2 came to rest facing east, and Vehicle 3 came to rest facing south. The restrained 65 year old female driver of the 2003 Mercedes Benz C240 was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-forward track position. It should be noted the driver used a pillow (to sit on) for support. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Following the collision, the restrained 65 year old female driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injury. All involved vehicles were towed from the crash site due to police reported disabling damage.