This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 55 year old female driver of a 2005 Hyundai Elantra GLS 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), seatback mounted side air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver frontal air bag deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a 2000 Jeep Cherokee Limited 4-door 4x4 sport utility (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred in the southbound lane of a two-lane north/south rural roadway, just north of a 4-leg intersection. South of the intersection, a hillcrest provided limited sight distance as the road curved right for northbound traffic. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions, but the (asphalt) road surface was reported by police to be covered in patches of ice. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by stop signs for east/westbound vehicles. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 45 mph (72 km/h). Vehicle 1 was southbound on approach to the 4-leg intersection, and proceeding straight on an uphill grade. Vehicle 2 was northbound on the same road and negotiating a right curve. Vehicle 2 exited the curve onto the straightaway as the driver observed a (non-contact) vehicle in the east sector of the 4-leg intersection turn right to proceed north, across his path of travel. Upon recognition of the impending harmful event, the driver of Vehicle 2 steered left in avoidance (of the NCV) and entered the southbound travel lane into the path of the 2005 Hyundai Elantra. The driver of Vehicle 1 steered right and braked in avoidance of Vehicle 2. As Vehicle 2 entered the southbound travel lane, the front left area impacted the front left area of Vehicle 1. The roadway slope, in conjunction with pre-impact braking by the driver of Vehicle 1, allowed the structure above the bumper to engage the undercarriage of Vehicle 2 in an underride configuration. The impact resulted in severe damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, both vehicles rotated counterclockwise and began their respective post-impact trajectories to final rest. Vehicle 1 came to rest straddling the west pavement edge of the road facing northeast, as Vehicle 2 came to rest in the northbound travel lane facing southwest. The restrained 55 year old female driver of Vehicle 1 was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-forward track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver initiated a forward (and slightly lateral) trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, knee bolster, and deployed frontal air bag. Pronounced indentations and scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation noted to the aft reinforcement panel. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the makeup transfers and scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. A tear was also found on the left lower quadrant of the air bag face, which suggested possible snagging by jewelry worn on the driver's left wrist. Deformation was identified on the left aspect of the center console, and attributed to right lower extremity contact. Following the crash, the restrained driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was reportedly entrapped by intruded interior components and subsequently extricated by rescue personnel. The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a nearby trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injury sustained in the collision. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.