This nearside crash case involves a 33 year old restrained female seated in the front left seating position (Driver) with deployed steering wheel, seat back, and roof side rail mounted air bags who sustained moderate injuries. The crash occurred in the morning hours (dark) in wet and rainy weather. Just before the impact location there are two concrete northbound travel lanes (positive 4% grade) with a right shoulder. There were also three southbound travel lanes (negative 4% grade) with two straight lanes, one left turn lane, and a right shoulder. The North and South travel lanes are separated by a grassy median. The posted speed limit for this roadway is 60 mph (97 km/h). The case vehicle (V1), a 2009 four-door Nissan Sentra, was being driven North in the inbound lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 IC Corporation RE-Series 3000 school bus, was being driven south in the outside lane. Vehicle #1 was traveling northbound in the right inbound travel lane and Vehicle #2 was traveling southbound in the outside travel lane. V1 began to travel across the grassy median and into the southbound travel lane as it began rotating clockwise on the wet roadway. V1 entered the outside (southbound) travel lane, the left side of its vehicle impacted the front of V2. After initial impact, V1 was forced backwards in a southwest direction, rotating 180 degrees before traveling to final rest on the south shoulder facing West. After initial impact, V2 traveled in a southeasterly direction before traveling to its final resting position across both southbound travel lanes facing southeast. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V1 was driven by the 33 year old female case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted, roof side rail curtain, and the seat back mounted air bags all deployed as a result of the crash. This case occupant's seat track was positioned at middle the seat back was in the slightly reclined position (moving slightly backwards due to b-pillar intrusion). The case occupant was moderately injured and transported to a local hospital before being transported to a level 1 trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of her injuries. The driver of V2 was not injured in the crash and there were no other occupants on the school bus.