This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 72 year old female front right passenger of a 2010 Ford Escape Hybrid 4-door sport utility. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), seat back mounted side air bags (for the front outboard seating positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver/front right passenger air bags, left front side air bag, and left curtain air bag deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a W-beam guardrail (event 1). The crash occurred in the grassy median area of a level east/west (asphalt) 4-lane divided trafficway. The median was bordered by W-beam guardrails, which ran parallel to the travel lanes and were supported by steel posts. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The speed limit at the crash site was 89 km/h (55 mph). Vehicle 1 was initially westbound on the inboard travel lane and proceeded to travel off the road edge entering the center median area in a forward tracking mode. As Vehicle 1 entered the center median, the front left area impacted the end section of a W-beam guardrail in an offset frontal configuration (event 1). Sustained contact with the guardrail allowed the direct damage to continue down the vehicle's left side surface into the front axle area, resulting in moderate damage. Deformed sections of the guardrail detached from the support posts causing direct damage to the vehicle's front end structure (event 2). At this point, a section of the guardrail separated from the damaged length and struck the vehicle's right front side surface (event 3), just behind the right front wheel/tire (i.e. right front wheel well). The third event resulted in additional moderate exterior vehicle damage, as the guardrail segment subsequently penetrated the interior passenger compartment. This single section of guardrail pierced the vehicle's interior right toepan/kicker panel area and intruded diagonally across front row occupant space. Vehicle 1 came to rest alongside the struck guardrail (in the center median) facing west. The restrained 72 year old female front right passenger of the 2010 Ford Escape sport utility was presumed to be in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact 1, the front right passenger initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint and deployed frontal air bag. Interaction with the deployed front right passenger air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks identified across the face of the membrane. During impact 3, intrusion of the guardrail section across the front right occupant space severely lacerated both lower extremities resulting in a near complete bilateral amputation. This injury mechanism was evidenced by the pronounced skin tissue and ligament transfers found on the (intruded) guardrail segment. Following the collision, the restrained 15 year old female driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital for treatment and released. The restrained 72 year old female front right passenger was transported by air to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injury. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.