This multi-event case involves a 78 year old restrained male seated in the front left seating position (Driver) with a deployed steering wheel mounted air bag (seat back, and roof side rail mounted air bags did not deploy) who sustained moderate injuries. The crash occurred in the late evening hours (dark but lighted) in dry and clear weather. There are two westbound travel lanes (one left turn and one right turn lane) and one eastbound travel lane that are separated by a grassy median. The east and west bituminous travel lanes have a negative slope and connect with a north/south roadway at a 3-leg intersection. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by overhead tri-lights. The posted speed limit for this roadway is 35 mph (56 km/h). The case vehicle (V1), a 2005 four-door Toyota Highlander, was being driven west. Vehicle 1 was traveling westbound on the inboard travel lane when the driver allowed it to drift into the adjacent outboard (westbound) lane and enter the 3-leg intersection in a forward tracking mode. Vehicle 1 traversed a center traffic island which divided the north/southbound lanes as the frontal area subsequently impacted a W-beam guardrail (event 1). The initial impact resulted in moderate damage, but did not alter the vehicle's trajectory as it continued in a northwesterly direction across the southbound lanes, and depart the west pavement edge. The vehicle reached a steep embankment and the undercarriage struck the ground resulting in minor damage (event 2). The embankment produced a ramping effect as Vehicle 1 was launched into an iron fence which bordered a parking lot (event 3). This impact resulted in overlapping damage to the front and undercarriage areas of Vehicle 1. At this point, the vehicle's undercarriage struck the asphalt surface of the parking lot which resulted in additional moderate overlapping damage (event 4). The frontal area of Vehicle 1 then impacted the brick face of a one-story building resulting in additional moderate overlapping damage (event 5). Vehicle 1 was reported by police to have come to rest partially inside the struck building facing northwest. V1 was towed from the scene due to disabling damage. V1 was driven by the 78 year old male case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed as a result of the crash. The available roof side rail curtain, and seat back mounted air bag did not deploy as a result of the crash. This case occupant's seat track was positioned at rear most and his seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The case occupant was moderately injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of his injuries.