This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 52 year old male rear right passenger of a 2007 Infinity M35X 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), seat back mounted side air bags (for the front outboard seating positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The right front side air bag and right curtain air bag deployed as a result of an oblique angled impact with a 2006 Chrysler Sebring 2-door convertible (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of an urban 4-leg intersection. The east/westbound trafficway consisted of seven (level) travel lanes which were divided by a raised curbed median. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by overhead tri-lights. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 45 mph (72 km/h). It was dark, with rainy weather conditions as the roads were wet. Vehicle 1 was initially westbound on the inboard turn lane when the driver slowed in an attempt to turn left (south) at the 4-leg intersection. Vehicle 2 was eastbound on approach to the same 4-leg intersection, and proceeding straight in the outboard through lane. Vehicle 1 entered the intersection and turned south, across the path of the eastbound Chrysler. As Vehicle 1 crossed the eastbound (outboard) travel lane, the right rear side surface was subsequently impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2. Impact resulted in moderate damage to both vehicles. At this point, both vehicles rotated clockwise and began their respective post-impact trajectories towards the southeast sector of the intersection. Vehicle 1 came to rest facing southwest as Vehicle 2 came to rest facing southeast. The restrained 52 year old male rear right passenger of the 2007 Infinity M35X was presumed to be postured in an upright position. Restraint use was evidenced by the stress found on the lower anchor stitching of the rear right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the rear right passenger initiated a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 3 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, interior door surface, and deployed right curtain air bag. An indentation was identified just below the right rear door armrest, indicative of passenger pelvic engagement. Scuff marks and panel fractures documented just above the door armrest were indicative of passenger right arm/shoulder contact. Interaction with the deployed right curtain air bag was evidenced by the facial smudge mark noted on the inboard surface of the membrane. Following the collision, the restrained (unknown aged) female front right passenger and restrained 52 year old male rear right passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local trauma center. The front right passenger of Vehicle 1 was treated for minor injury and released. The rear right passenger of Vehicle 1 was admitted for further treatment of serious injury sustained in the crash. The restrained 50 year old female driver of Vehicle 1 was reported by police as uninjured in the crash. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.