This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 29-year-old pregnant (1st trimester) female driver of a 2007 Honda Accord EX 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags/seatback mounted side air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions, and curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions. The driver frontal, seatback mounted and curtain air bags all deployed as a result of a frontal ("end-on") impact with a concrete jersey barrier. The crash occurred off the east pavement edge of a 5-lane north/south urban roadway. Just south of the crash site, the asphalt travel lanes were straight with a positive grade for northbound traffic. Just north of the crash site, the (northbound) travel lanes curved right and leveled off at a 4-leg intersection. In the vicinity of the crash site, the road was under improvement due to adjacent housing construction, as the northbound travel lanes were bordered to the east by a concrete barrier wall. The concrete barrier had no end-treatment safety devices or features. It was dark; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 56 km/h (35 mph). Vehicle 1 was initially northbound in the outboard travel lane and proceeding straight. Vehicle #1 then departed the right (east) pavement edge in a forward tracking mode. The frontal area of Vehicle 1 impacted the end profile of a concrete jersey barrier (i.e. "end-on" impact type) which resulted in severe damage. The case vehicle rebounded off of the barrier wall and came to rest in close proximity to the point of impact (on the east shoulder) facing north. The unrestrained 29 year old female driver of the 2007 Honda Accord was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-track position. The lack of restraint use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, relative to the crash severity and extent of occupant contacts identified across interior components. At impact, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force. The upper and lower sections of the steering wheel were heavily deformed, indicative of probable driver loading through the deployed (and possibly deflated) frontal air bag. . It should also be noted that there was substantial upward movement of the steering column documented, as the column shear capsules were found fully compressed. Vertical and longitudinal intrusion of the left toepan, floorpan, and floor pedals produced an entrapment mechanism of the driver's lower extremities against the seat cushion (confirmed by driver's medical records). The driver seat back was found deformed from a semi-reclined to a forward mid-range position. This deformation was the result of a loose spare tire (and/or cargo) stowed in the trunk which penetrated the interior passenger compartment through the second row seat back (at the hinged junction of the folding seat back and cushion bight). Cargo movement through the passenger compartment at the moment of impact could have compounded the (unrestrained) occupant kinematic response into frontal components. Following the collision, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was extricated by rescue personnel and immediately transported to a nearby trauma center. The driver was subsequently admitted for treatment of serious injury sustained in the crash. The case vehicle was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.