This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 77 year old female driver of a 2014 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal/seat back mounted side air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions) and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The right front side air bag and right curtain air bag deployed as a result of a right angle impact with a 2008 Ford F450 4-door 4x4 Super Duty pickup truck (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred within an urban (level) 4-leg intersection. The north/south (asphalt surfaced) trafficway was divided by a raised curb median, as the northbound roadway consisted of 3 travel lanes. The east/west (asphalt surfaced) roadway consisted of 3 travel lanes within the west leg, and 2 travel lanes within the east leg of the intersection. Traffic control consisted of stop signs for the east/west sectors of the intersection. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 35 mph (56 km/h). Vehicle 1 was initially stopped and facing east in the west leg of the intersection. Vehicle 2 was northbound on the inboard through lane and proceeding straight. Vehicle 1 entered the intersection to proceed eastbound, across the path of the northbound Ford pickup. Upon recognition of the impending harmful event, the driver of Vehicle 1 accelerated in avoidance. The driver of Vehicle 2 steered right in anticipation of the impending crash. The frontal area of V2 subsequently impacted the right front side surface of Vehicle 1 (event 1). The impact resulted in moderate damage to the case vehicle and produced a counterclockwise rotation as both vehicles were re-directed towards the northeast sector of the intersection. During this post-impact trajectory, the right rear side surface of Vehicle 1 subsequently struck the left side surface of Vehicle 2 in a "side-slap" configuration. This secondary impact resulted in minor damage to Vehicle 1. Both vehicles came to rest in the northeast sector of the intersection facing northeast. The restrained 77 year old female driver of the 2014 Hyundai Elantra was presumed to be in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. The police report stated that the driver was restrained by the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, which was confirmed during the follow up interview. At impact 1, the driver initiated a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 2 o'clock direction of force. The second event was minor in nature and produced little if no kinematic response from the driver. However, any kinematic response would only compound the (now) out-of-position driver into the aforementioned interior component. Following the collision, the restrained driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital for treatment. She was subsequently transferred to a nearby trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injury sustained in the crash. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to police reported disabling damage.