This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 76 year old male driver of a 2011 Jeep Grand Cherokee Laredo 4x4 4-door sport utility. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags/seat back mounted side air bags (for the front outboard seating positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). Both side air bags and left/right curtain air bags deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a large diameter tree (event 2). The crash occurred off the east pavement edge of a 2-lane north/south rural roadway, located on the south end of an "S" curve (i.e. "switchback" curve). North of the crash site, the roadway transitioned from a sharp curve into a straightaway configuration. Immediately south of the crash site, the roadway began to curve again in the opposite direction. The (level) asphalt surfaced roadway was bordered to the west by private yards, and to the east by thick wooded areas. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 80 km/h (50 mph). Vehicle 1 was southbound on the straightaway, and entered a right curve when the driver observed a deer crossing the road from the west. Upon recognition of the impending harmful event, the driver steered left in avoidance of the animal. Vehicle 1 subsequently departed the left (east) pavement edge and traversed a small roadside embankment. The case vehicle's front undercarriage dug into the earthen embankment resulting in minor damage (event 1). At this point, the front left area impacted a large diameter tree which resulted in moderate damage (event 2). The struck tree was sheared/uprooted as Vehicle 1 came to rest in close proximity (off the east pavement edge of the road) facing southeast. The restrained 76 year old male driver of Vehicle 1 was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. The first event was minor in nature, and produced little if no kinematic response from the driver. At impact 2, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force. Following the collision, the restrained driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital for treatment. He was subsequently transferred (by air) to a nearby trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injury sustained in the crash. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.