This case involves a 35-year-old male driver who was 188 cms (6'2") tall and weighed 87 kilograms (192 lbs). The case occupant was driving a 2013 Hyundai Veloster 3-door hatchback involved in a moderate severity rollover crash in addition to multiple impacts with trees. The first impact with a tree initiated a lateral rollover. The grill of the car then impacted a dirt mound creating an end-over-end movement that was arrested by a collision with a second tree. The case occupant was restrained with the available three-point belt equipped with a retractor pretensioner which actuated in the crash. The Hyundai Veloster was equipped with a steering wheel, side curtain, and seatback air bag at the driver's position. Only the steering wheel air bag deployed as a result of the crash. On impact, during Event #2, the case occupant moved upwards towards the roof and outwards towards the driver's door. This is evidenced by contacts on the driver's door, roof, and header as well as a left scalp contusion and laceration. The case occupant sustained a left frontoparietal subarachnoid and subdural hemorrhage and a parieto-occipital skull fracture. These injuries possibly were due to the head loading by the roof during the rollover event. Alternatively, these injuries possibly were due to the head loading from the sunvisor during the impact with the second tree. There are contacts on the roof and header to support both scenarios. He also sustained C2 spine fractures, C4 left transverse foramen, C5 right posterior arch, multiple C6/C7 fractures, T1 minor compression, and T1 right transverse process fractures. These fractures are attributed to the same potential mechanisms as the skull and intracranial injuries. The rollover event caused the case occupant to impact the driver's door as evidenced by contacts by deformation of the door. This impact probably resulted in a left pulmonary contusion from loading through his shoulder. The case occupant also sustained a left scapula fracture probably from contacting the seat back.