This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 30 year old female driver of a 2008 Nissan Maxima SE 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags, seat back mounted side air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver frontal air bag deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a large diameter tree (event 4). The crash occurred off the south pavement edge of an east/west multi-lane urban trafficway. The asphalt surfaced east/westbound travel lanes were divided by a grass median, and curved left for eastbound traffic. The trafficway crested in the vicinity of the crash site and was bordered by residential yards, as the posted speed limit was 45 mph (72 km/h). It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 was initially eastbound in the outboard travel lane and proceeding straight. As Vehicle 1 entered a left curve, the driver allowed it to continue in a forward tracking mode and depart the south pavement edge. The vehicles's right front area subsequently sideswiped a roadside signpost resulting in minor damage (event 1). The impact did not alter the case vehicle's trajectory as it traveled in a southeasterly direction across an empty lot. Vehicle 1's front area impacted a small silt fence which bordered a private driveway, resulting in minor damage (event 2). As the case vehicle traversed a residential yard, the undercarriage dug into the soft soil (event 3). At this point, Vehicle 1 approached a stand of trees. The vehicles frontal area impacted two (closely spaced) large diameter trees almost simultaneously, which resulted in moderate overlapping damage (events 4 and 5). Specifically, event 4 involved the case vehicle's front left area, as event 5 involved the front right area. Vehicle 1 rebounded off of the struck trees and came to rest (off of the south pavement edge of the east/west roadway) in close proximity to this final point of impact facing northeast. The unrestrained 30 year old female driver of the 2008 Nissan Maxima was presumed to be abnormally postured and possibly slumped slightly to the right (unconscious), with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. The lack of restraint use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, relative to the extent of occupant contacts documented across the vehicle interior. In addition, the driver restraint was found restricted in the retracted (stowed) position by the retractor pretensioner deployment. Events 1 and 2 were minor in nature, and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the driver. At event 3, the non-horizontal undercarriage impact may have placed the driver further out of position postured abnormally to the right. However, it was of the Investigator's opinion (based upon scene/vehicle physical evidence) that this event did not meet or exceed the vehicle's frontal air bag deployment threshold, nor initiate any significant kinematic response from the driver. The fourth and fifth events, which occurred almost simultaneously, initiated a forward kinematic trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force. Following the collision, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital and subsequently transferred to a nearby trauma center where she was admitted for treatment of serious injury. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.