This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 80 year old female front right passenger of a 2010 Toyota RAV-4 4-door all-wheel drive sport utility. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags/seat back mounted side air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver and front right passenger air bags deployed as a result of a moderate severity offset frontal collision with a 2001 Honda Civic 4-door sedan (Vehicle 2 - event 1). The case vehicle's left and right curtain air bags deployed as a result of a subsequent (undetermined) impact in this multi-event crash envelope. The crash occurred at a multi-lane 4-leg urban intersection. The south leg of the intersection consisted of 6 level/asphalt travel lanes divided by a grass median. The north leg of the intersection consisted of 8 level/asphalt travel lanes divided by a raised concrete median. Traffic through the 4-leg intersection was controlled by overhead tri-lights. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 45 mph (72 km/h). It was dark (trafficway lighted by overhead lamps); with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 was initially southbound on the inboard left turn lane of the north/south trafficway and entered the 4-leg intersection to proceed east. Vehicle 2 was northbound in the outboard through lane of the north/south trafficway and entered the 4-leg intersection to proceed straight. Vehicle 3, a 2006 Acura TL 4-door sedan, was also northbound (on the inboard through lane), and entered the 4-leg intersection to proceed straight. Vehicle 1 entered the intersection and began to turn left across the path of the northbound Honda. The frontal area of Vehicle 1 impacted the front left area of Vehicle 2 resulting in moderate damage (event 1). At this point, Vehicle 1 rotated sharply counterclockwise as the right side surface subsequently struck the left side surface of Vehicle 2 in a secondary "side-slap" configuration (event 2). The impact resulted in moderate damage to the case vehicle. Vehicle 2 came to rest in the northeast sector of the intersection facing northeast. Vehicle 1's sudden counterclockwise rotation following the first event produced a roll moment as the center of gravity was tipped outboard of its wheels. This initiated a 2-quarter turn left side rollover which resulted in moderate top damage (event 3). During the rollover sequence, Vehicle 1 rotated about its vertical and longitudinal axis while traveling in a southwesterly direction across the northbound lanes. Vehicle 1 traversed the northbound inboard travel lane, across the path of Vehicle 3. Upon recognition of the impending harmful event, the driver of Vehicle 3 braked in avoidance and came to a complete stop within the intersection. The (inverted) back area of Vehicle 1 impacted the frontal area of Vehicle 3 resulting in minor damage (event 4). Vehicle 1 (on its roof) and Vehicle 3 came to rest in close proximity to the final point of impact (in the intersection) facing north. The restrained 80 year old female front right passenger of the 2010 Toyota RAV-4 was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-forward track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available front right passenger 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Although evidence indicated that the passenger frontal air bag deployed as a result of the first event, it was unknown which event triggered deployment of the left and right curtain air bag (possibly event 2 or 3). Following the collision, the restrained 54 year old male driver and restrained 80 year old female front right passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported (via ground) to a nearby trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was treated and released, as the front right passenger was admitted for further treatment of serious injury sustained in the crash. Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to police reported disabling damage, as Vehicle 3 was driven from the scene.