This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 33-year-old male driver and a restrained 31-year-old female front right passenger of a 2008 Lincoln MKX 4-door all-wheel-drive sport utility vehicle. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags, seatback mounted side air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The frontal driver and passenger air bags deployed as a result of a severe rear-end collision with a large transit bus (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred in the northbound outboard lane of a 7-lane north/south urban trafficway, just south of a 4-leg intersection. The north/south asphalt surfaced trafficway was level and straight, with the adjacent intersection controlled by overhead tri-lights. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The posted speed limit in the vicinity of the crash site was 45 mph (72 km/h). Vehicle 2, a northbound 2012 New Flyer (heavy duty cab forward) transit bus, was decelerating to a stop in the outboard travel lane when the driver of Vehicle 1, a 2008 Lincoln MKX approaching from the rear, failed to observe traffic ahead. The frontal area of the case vehicle subsequently impacted the back area of Vehicle 2 resulting in moderately severe damage. Both vehicles came to rest in close proximity to the point of impact (in the northbound outboard travel lane) facing north. The 33-year-old male driver of the 2008 Lincoln MKX was presumed to be abnormally postured upright and leaning slightly to the left, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force. In addition, the column shear capsules were found partially compressed along with upward/lateral movement of the column itself. The 31-year-old female front right passenger of the 2008 Lincoln MKX was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-forward track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. In addition, the belt webbing was noted to be locked in the out/used position by retractor pretensioner deployment. At impact, the front right passenger initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force. Following the collision, both restrained occupants of Vehicle 1 were transported (via ground) to a nearby trauma center where the driver was admitted for treatment of his moderate injuries and the front right passenger was admitted for treatment of her severe injuries. Both vehicles were reported by police to have been towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.