This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 11 year old female 3rd row, right child passenger of a 2005 Honda Odyssey EXL minivan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags/seat back mounted side air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver frontal air bag, left front side air bag, and left curtain air bag deployed during a multi-event crash envelope. The crash occurred at a rural 4-leg intersection between a state roadway and residential connector. The asphalt surfaced east/west state roadway consisted of 2 travel lanes which crested at the intersection with a public residential access road to the south, and private residential road to the north. An additional (third) travel lane was present for westbound vehicles turning right (north) onto the private road. The north/south asphalt surfaced residential access roadway consisted of 2 travel lanes which were straight and level. Traffic control consisted of a stop sign for northbound vehicles entering the state roadway from the south leg of the intersection. The north leg was marked as a private road and had no stop sign present. A limited sight distance existed for west and southbound vehicles approaching the intersection, a result of thick wooded areas in close proximity to the north pavement edge of the east/west roadway. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 50 mph (80 km/h) for east/westbound traffic, and 25 mph (40 km/h) for north/southbound traffic. Vehicle 1 was southbound on the private residential roadway on approach to the 4-leg intersection. Vehicle 2, a 2003 Chevrolet Silverado C-1500 series 4x2 pickup truck was westbound and proceeding straight also on approach to the 4-leg intersection. Vehicle 1 entered the intersection in an attempt to proceed straight, across the path of the westbound Chevrolet pickup. Upon recognition of the impending harmful event, the driver of Vehicle 2 steered left in avoidance and crossed the centerline into the eastbound travel lane. As both vehicles entered the intersection, the front left area of Vehicle 1 impacted the right front side surface of Vehicle 2 (event 1). The impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, both vehicles began their respective post-impact trajectories towards the southwest sector of the intersection. Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise as the left rear side surface struck the right rear side surface of Vehicle 2 in a "sideslap" configuration (event 2). The impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1, while it continued its post-impact trajectory across the path of Vehicle 3, an eastbound 2001 Honda CR-V LX sport utility. The left side surface of Vehicle 1 was subsequently impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 3 (event 3). The impact resulted in additional moderate overlapping damage to the case vehicle's left side surface, and reversed its rotation (counterclockwise) to a rest position in close proximity to this final event. Vehicle 1 came to final rest straddling the centerline of the east/west roadway facing southwest. Vehicle 3 came to final rest straddling the south pavement edge of the east/west roadway facing northeast. Vehicle 2 came to final rest in a private yard (in the southwest sector of the intersection) also facing northeast. Following the collision, the restrained 43 year old female driver, restrained 8 year old female second row left child passenger (restrained within a child safety seat), restrained 2 year old female second row right child passenger (restrained within a child safety seat), and restrained 9 year old female third row left child passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported by ground to a local hospital for treatment. The restrained 11 year old female third row right child passenger was transported by air to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injury. The driver of Vehicle 1 was subsequently admitted to the local hospital for treatment of serious injury. The remaining child passengers of Vehicle 1 were treated and released. All 3 vehicles were towed from the crash site due to police reported disabling damage.