This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 19 year-old male driver of a 2008 Lexus IS 250 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags (steering wheel & knee bolster)/ Side air bags (seat back and curtain) for the driver and front right passenger positions. Both driver frontal air bags deployed as a result of the impact with V2, a 2013 Toyota Tacoma Access cab (4WD). The crash occurred at a 3-leg intersection. The northbound leg has two straight asphalt travel lanes with one left turn only lane and a downhill slope. The southbound leg has two straight asphalt travel lanes with one left turn only lane and one right turn only lane. All south lanes have a slight right curve and a uphill slope. The north and south travel lanes are separated by a raised curb median and there are no traffic control devices. The third leg (east/west) has one asphalt travel lane in each direction that is separated by a double yellow line. Just prior to the intersection the east roadway has an uphill slope slope and the intersection is controlled by a stop sign. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 45 mph (72 km/h). It was dark with street lights; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 was eastbound and attempted to enter the intersection in order to execute a left turn in order to travel in a northbound direction. As Vehicle 1 crossed over the southbound travel lane and into the northbound travel lane, its front bumper impacted the left side surface of V2. The impact resulted in moderate damage to the case vehicle, and initiated a counterclockwise rotation as it traveled to its final resting position in the northeast sector of the intersection. After initial impact, V2 continued on to its final resting position partially off the roadway in the northeast sector of the intersection. The restrained 19 year old male driver of the 2008 Lexus IS 250 was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to between middle and rear most position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver initiated a forward and lateral trajectory in response to the 2 o'clock direction of force and loaded the seat belt, steering wheel/column, seat pan and left/center knee bolsters. Following the collision, the restrained 19 year old male driver of Vehicle 1 was transferred to a nearby trauma center and admitted for further treatment of severe injuries sustained in the crash. Both vehicles were reported by police as towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.