This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 29 year old male driver of a 2014 Chevrolet Cruze 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags, seatback mounted side air bags, knee bolster air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver frontal air bag, knee bolster air bag, left front side air bag, and left/right curtain air bags deployed as a result of a multi-event crash envelope. The case vehicle sustained severe damage as a result of an offset frontal collision with a 1996 Ford Explorer 4-door 4x4 sport utility (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred at a 3-leg rural "T" intersection. The north/south roadway consisted of 2 straight, asphalt surfaced, travel lanes which crested at the junction with the 2-lane east/west roadway. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by a stop sign for westbound (turning) vehicles. The speed limit in the vicinity of the crash site was 89 km/h (55 mph). It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 was traveling northbound on approach to the 3-leg intersection and proceeding straight. Vehicle 2 was southbound on approach to the same intersection, and had slowed to turn left and proceed east. As both vehicles reached the junction, Vehicle 2 began to turn left, across the path of the northbound Chevrolet. The front right area of Vehicle 2 was impacted by the front left area of Vehicle 1 in an offset frontal configuration (event 1). The impact resulted in severe damage to Vehicle 1, as the offset nature of this configuration allowed Vehicle 2 to sustain contact down the left side surface. At this point, both vehicles began to rotate counterclockwise and begin their respective post-impact trajectories to final rest. Vehicle 2 rebounded and traveled to the northwest, subsequently departing the west pavement edge where the left side surface struck a roadside tree (event 2). Vehicle 1 traveled to the northeast where it departed the east roadedge as the left rear side surface also struck a large diameter tree, resulting in moderate damage (event 3). Vehicle 1 came to final rest off the east pavement edge facing northeast, as Vehicle 2 came to rest off the west pavement edge facing northeast. The 29 year old male driver of Vehicle 1 was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. The lack of active restraint use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, relative to the crash severity and extent of occupant contacts documented across frontal components. At impact 1, the driver initiated a forward and lateral trajectory in response to the 11 o'clock impact force and loaded the deployed driver knee bolster air bag and deployed frontal air bag. Interaction with the deployed knee bolster air bag was evidenced by the faint scuffs identified on the face of the membrane, and pronounced indentation found on the aft knee bolster panel. Faint scuff marks were also noted on the face of the deployed driver frontal air bag; however, this contact evidence was partially masked by blood spatter. To the left of the aforementioned knee bolster contact, additional deformation was documented on the forward portion of the left front door interior surface, indicative of lower extremity pocketing adjacent to the left A-pillar. A linear occupant contact pattern was identified along the aft portion of the left front door armrest, and attributed to left thigh engagement. The upper portion of the steering wheel rim was deformed (with compression of the column shear capsules), suggestive of driver loading through a deflated air bag membrane. A localized area of driver contact evidence was documented on the left mid-windshield, which consisted of skin tissue and small strands of hair. Following the elongated (and sustained) maximum engagement with Vehicle 2, the occupant kinematic was re-directed to the right in response to the vehicle's counterclockwise rotation to final rest. This kinematic response was supported by the lateral movement of the center console which was deformed to the right. At impact 3, the driver kinematic was again re-directed to the left in response to the 9 o'clock impact force. The (now out-of-position) driver probably loaded the left front door interior surface, but any potential overlapping contact evidence could not be specifically tied to this event. It should be noted that no distinct evidence of engagement was identified on the inboard surface of the deployed seat back mounted left front side air bag nor deployed left curtain airbag. Although interaction with these deployed supplemental restraints during the multi-event crash scenario was certain, the exact deployment event could not be determined during subsequent analysis of the force direction. Following the collision, the unrestrained driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a nearby trauma center via air and admitted for treatment of serious injury. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site with police reported disabling damage.