This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 58 year old female driver of a 2012 Honda Civic EX 2-door coupe. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags, seatback mounted side air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The left curtain air bag and left front side air bag deployed as a result of an oblique angled impact with a 2010 Chevrolet Silverado K1500 series 4x4 pickup truck (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred in the eastbound travel lanes of a 6-lane divided limited access state trafficway. The eastbound roadway consisted of 3 asphalt surfaced, straight, level, travel lanes which were bordered to the north by a grass median divider and to the south by a (single lane) exit ramp. A crossover junction was located in the vicinity of the crash site, and designated as "authorized vehicles only". Exit traffic was controlled by a toll station immediately adjacent to the local connector. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The posted speed limit on the state trafficway was 65 mph (105 km/h). Vehicle 2 was eastbound on the inboard travel lane and proceeding straight. Vehicle 1 was initially westbound on the eastbound roadway off-ramp when the driver made an abrupt right turn (north) in an attempt to enter the crossover junction and proceed westbound (onto the westbound roadway). Vehicle 1 traversed the eastbound lanes, across the path of the eastbound Chevrolet pickup. As Vehicle 1 crossed the eastbound, inboard travel lane, the left side surface was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2. Impact resulted in moderate damage, and re-directed both vehicles into a northeasterly trajectory across the grassy median. Vehicle 1 and 2 reportedly sustained contact to final rest in the westbound roadway facing northwest and northeast, respectively. The 58 year old female driver of the 2012 Honda Civic EX 2-door coupe was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver initiated a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 9 o'clock impact force. Following the collision, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported (via ground) to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injury. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.