This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 10 year old male front right child passenger and restrained 9 year old female rear right child passenger of a 2011 Volkswagen Jetta SE 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags, seatback mounted side air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver and passenger frontal air bags deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a large diameter tree (event 2). The crash occurred off the north road edge of a 3-lane eastbound interstate roadway. The asphalt surfaced (level) multi-lane east/west trafficway was divided by a large wooded median area and curved left for eastbound vehicles. The crash site was located just east of an interchange on-ramp, and adjacent to a small crossover junction designated "official use only". It was daylight; with rainy conditions as the roads were wet. The posted speed limit in the vicinity of the crash site was 70 mph (113 km/h). Vehicle 1 was initially eastbound on the inboard travel lane and negotiating a left curve when the vehicle broke traction on the wet road surface and entered the center median area. The case vehicle traversed the crossover access road on a northeasterly trajectory and approached a cluster of trees within the median area. As Vehicle 1 entered the median wooded area, the right front side surface subsequently sideswiped a small diameter tree resulting in minor damage (event 1). At this point, the frontal area simultaneously impacted a large diameter tree which resulted in severe damage (event 2). The first tree was struck a second time along the right rear side surface, resulting in additional minor damage (event 3). Vehicle 1 subsequently came to rest in close proximity to the cluster of struck trees (within the center median) facing northeast. The 10 year old male front right child passenger of the 2011 Volkswagen Jetta was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the fabric transfers/loading marks documented on the available front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Analysis of the manual restraint system relative to the child passenger's official injury data suggested improper placement of the shoulder harness across the neck and lap webbing high across the abdomen. Following the collision, the restrained child passenger was transported by ambulance to a nearby level 1 trauma center and admitted (2 days) for treatment of serious injury. The 9 year old female rear right child passenger of the 2011 Volkswagen Jetta was presumed to be seated in an upright posture and faced forward. Restraint use was evidenced by the fabric transfers/loading marks documented on the available rear right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Analysis of the manual restraint system relative to the child passenger's official injury data suggested improper placement of the shoulder harness across the neck and lap webbing high across the abdomen. Following the collision, the restrained child passenger was transported by ambulance to a nearby level 1 trauma center and admitted (1 day) for treatment of serious injury. The restrained (non-case occupant) 31 year old female driver of the 2011 Volkswagen Jetta was also transported by ground to the same medical facility due to police reported moderate injuries sustained in the crash. She was treated and released. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.