This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 22 year old female driver and unrestrained 30 year old female front right passenger of a 2012 Scion TC 2-door hatchback. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags, knee bolster air bags, seatback mounted side air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). Both frontal air bags, knee bolster air bags, and curtain air bags deployed as a result of a moderate severity offset frontal collision with a 2003 Chevrolet Geo Tracker 4x4 sport utility (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred in the southbound travel lane of a north/south 2-lane rural roadway, just north of an adjacent hillcrest. The asphalt surfaced roadway was bordered to the east and west by thick wooded areas, and curved left (with a negative grade) for northbound traffic. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. The posted speed limit in the vicinity of the crash site was 55 mph (89 km/h). The case vehicle was initially southbound and proceeding straight on an uphill slope. Vehicle 2 was northbound on the same roadway and negotiating a left curve. As Vehicle 2 approached the apex of the left curve, the driver allowed the right side wheels to depart the east road edge onto the gravel shoulder. The driver steered left in an attempt to stabilize Vehicle 2's northbound travel and re-entered the roadway in a northwesterly trajectory towards the southbound lane. Upon recognition of the impending harmful event, the driver of Vehicle 1 braked and steered left in avoidance of the northbound Chevrolet. As Vehicle 2 entered the southbound travel lane, the front right area impacted the front right area of Vehicle 1. The impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, both vehicles began to rotate clockwise and sustained contact from maximum engagement through the initial spinout phase of the collision sequence. This sustained contact produced additional damage along Vehicle 1's right front side surface. Vehicle 1 continued its post-impact trajectory to the southeast and subsequently came to rest straddling the centerline of the road facing west. Vehicle 2 traveled to the northwest along its post-impact trajectory and came to rest straddling the west road edge facing southeast. The 22 year old female driver of the 2012 Scion was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rearward track position. The lack of restraint use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, relative to the extent of contact across frontal components. In addition, the restraint was found restricted in the stowed position by retractor pretensioner deployment. At impact, the driver initiated a forward (and slightly lateral) trajectory in response to the 11 o'clock impact force. The 30 year old female front right passenger of the 2012 Scion was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. The lack of restraint use was also evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the available front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, relative to the extent of contact across frontal components. In addition, the restraint was found restricted in the stowed position by retractor pretensioner deployment. At impact, the front right passenger initiated a forward and (slightly lateral) trajectory in response to the 11 o'clock impact force. Following the collision, the unrestrained 22 year old female driver and unrestrained 30 year old female front right passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported via ground to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injury. The unrestrained (unknown aged) rear right adult male passenger of Vehicle 1's treatment status, if any, was unknown. However, he was reported by police to have sustained minor injury in the crash. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to police reported disabling damage.