This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 19-year-old female belted passenger with no airbag protection. She was the left rear passenger of a 2013 Nissan Altima, an intermediate size sedan, involved in multiple off-road impacts to various objects. The case vehicle sustained moderate damage. This case occupant sustained moderate injuries in the crash. The crash occurred during midafternoon hours on a dry road under clear skies. A 2013 Nissan Altima intermediate sedan (Vehicle 1) was traveling northeast negotiating a left curve on a two-lane rural road. The bituminous road was on a 3% downhill grade in the curve, on level grade after the curve. V1 was negotiating the left curve when it departed the right side of the road. V1 returned to the road, crossed the center line, and then departed the left side of the road. The front of V1 struck a rock-filled culvert (Event 1). V1 then traveled a considerable distance partially in a shallow ditch, likely unable to steer out of the ditch. V1 struck a plastic utility marker (Event 2) followed by a street sign (Event 3), both with its front plane. V1 continued across an intersecting side street and then struck an upwards embankment with its front left corner (Event 4), pushing the left front axle back 15 cm. The force and location of the impact caused V1 to begin a counterclockwise rotation. An unknown plane of V1 struck a small yard ornament (Event 5), followed by the ground (Event 6), as evidenced by its right rear axle being pushed forward. V1 then contacted a wooden mailbox post (Event 7) before coming to rest partially in the road. V1 was towed due to damage. The 19-year-old female left rear occupant was belted at the time of the crash as evidenced by a purple clothing transfer to the belt, 4 cm of shoulder belt payout, and loading to the latch plate. No belt pretensioners were available for this 2nd row seat. The available curtain airbag did not deploy during the crash sequence. No other airbags were installed for this seating position. This occupant was transported to a trauma center for treatment of moderate injuries. The case vehicle was also occupied by a 23-year-old belted male driver with a deployed frontal airbag. He was reported to have minor injuries and was transported and released from a hospital. There was also a 22-year-old male right front belted passenger with a deployed frontal airbag. He was treated at a hospital later for minor injuries.