This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 84 year old male rear left passenger of a 2006 Lincoln Town Car Signature Limited 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags and (seat back mounted) side impact air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal air bag and side impact air bag deployed as a result of an oblique angle collision with a 2004 Ford Econoline E350 Super Duty van (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was initially stopped and facing west at a 3-leg rural ("T") intersection, attempting to turn left (south). Vehicle 2 was northbound on a two-lane roadway, on approach to the same intersection. It should be noted that a sight obstruction was identified at the southeast corner of the intersection, which may have contributed to pre-crash circumstances. Vehicle 1 entered the intersection and began to turn left, across the path of Vehicle 2. As Vehicle 1 crossed the northbound travel lane, the left front side surface was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2. Impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1. Both vehicles came to rest in close proximity to the point of impact within the intersection. Vehicle 1 came to rest facing northwest, and Vehicle 2 came to rest facing northeast. The unrestrained 84 year old male rear left passenger of the 2006 Lincoln Town Car was presumed to be seated in an upright posture. The lack of restraint use was evidenced by the extent of contacts across the rear left occupant space, relative to the absence of loading marks on the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the rear left passenger initiated a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 9 o'clock impact force and loaded the interior door surface and driver seat back. This trajectory was evidenced by the scuff marks and indentations identified on these components. Deep scratch marks were also documented on the grab handle located above the left rear window area (i.e. roof side rail). It should be noted that a localized scuff mark was found on the aft aspect of the deployed driver side impact air bag. The proximity of this contact along the kinematic path suggested possible penetration of the rear left passenger into the driver space. Following the crash, both occupants of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local hospital. The restrained 50 year old male driver's treatment status was unknown. The rear left passenger of Vehicle 1 was subsequently transferred to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.