This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 35 year old female driver of a 2000 Plymouth Neon 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an oblique angled impact with a 2003 Chrysler PT Cruiser (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was northbound on a two-lane rural roadway, on approach to a 4-leg intersection. Vehicle 2 was eastbound, on approach to the same intersection. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by stop signs for east/westbound vehicles. It was dusk, with rainy conditions as the roads were wet. Vehicle 2 entered the intersection, across the path of Vehicle 1. As Vehicle 2 crossed the northbound lane, the frontal area impacted the left front side surface of Vehicle 1 (event 1). Impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1. This initial impact re-directed both vehicles into the northeast sector of the intersection. Vehicle 1 subsequently departed the east pavement edge and encountered a steep drop off into a wooded area. This produced a roll moment as the vehicle's center of gravity was tipped outboard of its wheels. This mechanism initiated a 3-quarter turn right side rollover ("fallover"), resulting in moderate top damage (event 2). During the rollover, Vehicle 1 struck four additional objects (events 3-6), resulting in minor damage. Vehicle 1 was reported by police as coming to rest on its left side (in the wooded area) facing northwest. Vehicle 2 struck a small diameter post alongside the north shoulder of the intersection (event 7), where it came to rest facing northeast. The restrained 35 year old female driver of the 2000 Plymouth Neon was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the fabric transfers and loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact 1, the driver initiated a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 9 o'clock impact force and loaded the interior door surface. This trajectory was evidenced by the indentations, panel fractures, and scuff marks identified along this component. Scuffing was noted on the left kicker panel, with extremity pocketing on the adjacent knee bolster. The brake pedal was also deformed to the right. During the roll moment (event 2), the occupant kinematic was re-directed to the right. Makeup transfers and scuff marks identified across the face of the deployed driver air bag membrane suggest possible interaction during the subsequent rollover. The headliner fabric was abraded just above the driver space (e.g. head scuff). Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.