Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 77-year-old male driver and a 77-year-old right front female passenger, both of a 2010 Honda Insight Hybrid 4-door hatchback, which was involved in a moderate, head-on (offset/oblique right) collision with the frontal plane of a 2011 Volkswagen Routan minivan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours (daylight) of a fall weekday, at the intersection of a straight east/west roadway and a north/south roadway. At the intersection, the east/west roadway consists of five travel lanes. For both the east and westbound travel directions, leading into the intersection, there are two through lanes and one dedicated left turn lane. For both the east and west travel directions, leading away from the intersection, there are two travel lanes. Both the westbound and eastbound travel directions have a negative downhill grade leading into the intersection. The north and south legs of the intersection did not play a part in the crash. The intersection is controlled by standard, overhead tri-colored, electric traffic signals. The east/west roadway, for both travel directions, has a speed limit of 35 mph (56 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2010 Honda Insight Hybrid 4-door hatchback, was being operated by the 77-year-old male driver (case occupant 1) in the dedicated left turn lane, at the eastern leg of the intersection. Occupying the right front seating position was a 77-year-old female passenger (case occupant 2). The driver of Vehicle 1 was unbelted, but the right front passenger was utilizing her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, side torso impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 2011 Volkswagen Routan minivan, was traveling eastbound in the left eastbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the west. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling eastbound. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the front right plane of Vehicle 1. Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise as Vehicle 2 was redirected to the southeast. Both vehicles came to rest in the intersection, at the eastern leg, at or near the eastbound travel lanes. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed, as did the right front side torso air bag and the right side rail curtain. Post-Crash: Both the driver and right front passenger of Vehicle 1 (case occupants 1 and 2) were transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital with possible injuries. The extent of their injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.