Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted 64-year-old male driver of a 2009 Ford Mustang 2-door convertible, which was primarily involved in a severe, frontal impact with a large tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours (daylight) of a summer weekday, on a two-lane, straight roadway. This roadway runs generally north and south and has a left turning curve for the southbound travel direction, just beyond the area of roadway departure for Vehicle 1. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The roadway has a speed limit of 40 mph (64 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2009 Ford Mustang 2-door convertible (Shelby GT500), was being operated by the 64-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by a 3-point lap/shoulder belt, with retractor pretensioner, and the case vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags and seat back mounted side impact air bags (front, outboard positions). The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the left turning curve and continue traveling south. Crash: For unknown reasons, while traveling south along the straight section of roadway, Vehicle 1 may have drifted left and off the east edge of the roadway before the driver attempted to steer right to regain the roadway. At this time, the driver of Vehicle 1 appears to have steered left, but subsequently departed the west edge of the roadway at or near the beginning of the left turning curve. At this time, Vehicle 1's frontal plane struck a mail box post (yielding object/event 1) as it continued traveling in a southerly direction off the west edge of the roadway. Vehicle 1 traveled some distance before striking a large tree with its frontal plane (event 2). At this time, Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise, less than ninety degrees, and contacted some brush/shrubs with its right side plane (event 3) before coming to rest at or near the impact with the tree, facing a southeasterly direction. As a result of the impact with the tree (event 2), Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed and the driver's belt pretensioner actuated. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle, by responding emergency medical services personnel, after a 30-minute extrication process. The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.