Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted 58-year-old male driver of a 2008 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a near side collision (left side plane) with the frontal plane of a 2012 Ford Explorer. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight) of a spring weekday, at the intersection of an east/west roadway and a north/south roadway. The east/west roadway consists of two travel lanes and intersects the north/south roadway on the east side, forming a "T-type" intersection. The east/west roadway has a negative downhill grade leading into the intersection. The north/south roadway has a negative downhill grade and a left turning curve for the northbound travel direction, leading into the intersection from the south; however, at the intersection and beyond the roadway has a positive uphill grade. At the intersection, both the northbound and southbound travel directions have two travel lanes apiece. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. The east/west roadway has a speed limit of 35 mph (56 km/h), while the north/south roadway has a speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2008 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 58-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the westbound travel lane, at the eastern leg of the intersection. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling southbound. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his 3-point lap/shoulder belt and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted side torso air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. Vehicle 2, a 2012 Ford Explorer compact utility vehicle, was traveling northbound in the left northbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to negotiate the graded and curved section of roadway, pass through the intersection and continue traveling north. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1). Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise as Vehicle 2 was redirected to the northwest. Vehicle 1's left front corner area subsequently struck Vehicle 2's left side plane as Vehicle 2 passed by (event 2 / minor scraping). Vehicle 1 came to rest in the left southbound travel lane, facing a southerly direction, while Vehicle 2 came to rest in the intersection, facing a northwesterly direction. As a result of the first event, Vehicle 1's driver frontal air bag, driver's side torso air bag and left roof side rail curtain deployed. Post-Crash: The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with moderate to severe injuries. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 2 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital with possible injuries and treated and released. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.