Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 48-year old right front male passenger of a 2010 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a moderate, non-horizontal front right corner impact, including wheel/axle engagement, with a ditch/culvert. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours (dark), of a winter weekend, on a two-lane, bituminous roadway. This roadway runs generally east and west, and at the area of the crash, the roadway has a ninety-degree (approximate) left turning curve for the eastbound travel. Near the termination of the curve (eastbound), bordering the south roadway edge is a ditch/culvert and a private driveway. At the time of the crash, it was snowing / sleeting and the roadway surface was icy. The roadway has a speed limit of 30 mph (48 km/h) and the overall environment is rural. Vehicle 1, the 2010 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was being operated by a 24-year-old male driver in the eastbound travel lane. Occupying the right front seating position was the 48-year-old male passenger. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt; however, the right front passenger of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was unrestrained. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, a driver's knee bolster air bag, hip/torso side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the left turning curve and continue traveling eastbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 negotiated the curved section of the roadway, it experienced a loss of control (icy road conditions) and departed the south edge of the roadway. At this time, Vehicle 1 struck a ditch/culvert with its lower front right corner and right front wheel/axle (event 1) and then struck a mail box post (event 2) with its frontal plane (suspected to be at the front right corner area). Vehicle 1 came to rest at the ditch/culvert area, next to a private driveway, facing an easterly direction. Per the event data record (EDR), Vehicle 1 experienced a longitudinal delta-v of less than 11.0 mph and a lateral delta-v of around 7 mph during this crash, no air bags were commanded to deploy and neither front occupant's pretensioners actuated. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was uninjured; however, the right front male passenger (case occupant) was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with a serious injury. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.