Case Focus: The focus of this case is on an unbelted 51-year-old female driver of a 2011 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a moderate, frontal impact (small overlap corner impact) with a large tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the early morning hours (dark) of a summer weekend, on a two-lane, north/south roadway. This roadway has a negative graded right handed curve for the southbound travel direction. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The roadway has a speed limit of 40 mph (64 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2011 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan, was being operated by the unbelted 51-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the southbound travel lane. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the right turning curve and continue traveling southbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, as Vehicle 1 traveled southbound, it drifted left, across the northbound travel lane and off the east edge of the roadway. Vehicle 1 continued on a short distance and sideswiped a large tree with its left side plane (event 1). Vehicle 1 continued southbound, along the east edge of the roadway and subsequently struck another large tree (130 cm in diameter) with its front left corner area (event 2). Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise as it traveled back across the roadway and came to rest at the west roadway edge, facing a northwesterly direction. As a result of the second tree impact, Vehicle 1's frontal and left side (side rail / seat back) air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle by responding emergency medical services personnel and transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to critical injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.