Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 21-year-old male driver of a 2010 Kia Forte 2-door coupe, which was primarily involved in a severe, offset frontal impact with the frontal plane of a 2003 Saturn Vue compact utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the evening hours (dusk) of a spring weekday, on a two-lane, bituminous roadway. This roadway runs generally north and south and has a negative graded right turning curve for the northbound travel direction. The roadway has a speed limit of 25 mph and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The overall environment is rural with residential units occupying either side of the road. Vehicle 1, the 2010 Kia Forte 2-door coupe, was being operated by the 21-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by a 3-point lap/shoulder belt and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, seat back mounted side impact air bags (outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the graded and curved section of roadway and continue traveling northbound. Vehicle 2, a 2003 Saturn Vue compact utility vehicle, was traveling southbound, approaching the graded and curved section of roadway from the north. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to negotiate the curved section of the roadway and continue traveling southbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 negotiated the graded and increasing curvature of the roadway, the driver of Vehicle 1 applied the brakes, but was unsuccessful in keeping Vehicle 1 within its travel lane. Vehicle 1 subsequently entered the southbound travel lane. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 in an offset manner. Vehicle 2 was pushed rearward as it rotated counterclockwise out of the impact and off the west edge of the roadway. Vehicle 2 came to rest in a private residential driveway, facing a northerly direction. Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise out of the impact and toward the east roadside edge. Vehicle 1 continued to spin and eventually rolled one quarter turn onto its left side plane before coming to rest facing a northwesterly direction, at the east roadside edge, some distance north of the impact area. As a result of the initial frontal impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed as did the driver's hip/torso side bag (seat back mounted). Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital with non-incapacitating injuries. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.