Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 53-year-old, male driver of a 2009 Toyota Tacoma compact pick-up truck, which was involved in a moderate, front right corner impact with a tree, with a subsequent two-quarter turn rollover onto the top plane. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight) of a spring weekday, on a two-lane, bituminous roadway. This roadway runs generally east and west with a posted speed limit of 45 mph (72 km/h). Just prior to the crash area, the roadway has a positively graded right turning curve which straightens at the crash area (still positively graded), for the westbound travel direction. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The overall environment is rural. Vehicle 1, the 2009 Toyota Tacoma compact pick-up truck (regular cab), was being operated by the 53-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the westbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was unbelted, but Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, seat back mounted side impact air bags (outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling westbound. Crash: For unknown reasons (possibly preceding medical condition), Vehicle 1 departed the roadway to the right. As Vehicle 1 traveled along the paved shoulder area, at the straight section of roadway, the driver applied the brakes, but Vehicle 1 still veered slightly right. Vehicle 1 skidded, but still departed the north edge of the road while traveling westbound. Vehicle 1 subsequently struck a tree (yielding) with its front right corner area (event 1) and rotated clockwise. As Vehicle 1 rotated, it rolled two-quarter turns onto its top plane (event 2) and came to rest at the north roadside shoulder area, facing a southeasterly direction. As a result of the tree impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed as did both roof side rail curtains. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.