Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted 19-year-old male driver of a 2010 Honda CR-V compact utility vehicle, which was involved in a narrow corner frontal collision with the frontal plane of a 2002 Kenworth W900 heavy/medium straight truck (dump truck configuration). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the post afternoon hour (daylight) on a two-lane east/west roadway. This bituminous east/west roadway has an uphill grade and a right turning curve for the westbound travel direction. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The roadway, at the actual impact area, has a speed limit of 55 mph (89 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2010 Honda CR-V compact utility vehicle, was being operated by the 19-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the westbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, front seatback mounted side impact air bags (torso side bags) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the graded right turning curve and continue traveling westbound. Vehicle 2, a 2002 Kenworth W900 heavy/medium straight truck (dump truck configuration), was traveling eastbound. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling eastbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 failed to negotiate the graded right turning curve and entered the eastbound travel lane while traveling westbound. Based upon scene evidence (area of impact), it appears that the driver of V2 may have steered right (unconfirmed) to avoid a collision, but was unsuccessful. At this time, the frontal plane (front left corner) of Vehicle 1 struck the front left corner of Vehicle 2 (engaging the side plane of Vehicle 2 as well) in a head-on, narrow corner type impact. Vehicle 2 continued on for some distance but the driver of Vehicle 2 was able to bring Vehicle 2 to a controlled stop on the south paved shoulder area. Vehicle 1 disengaged from Vehicle 2 and continued on for some distance coming to an uncontrolled stop at the north paved shoulder area, facing a northwesterly direction. As a result of Vehicle 1's impact with Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1's driver frontal air bag, driver's side torso air bag and left side rail curtain air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle by responding emergency medical services personnel and transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured and was not transported. Vehicle 1 was towed due to damage sustained in the crash, while Vehicle 2 was also towed, but reported to be still functional.