Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted 44-year-old male driver of a 2005 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, which was involved in a severe, off-set frontal impact with the frontal plane of a 2004 Toyota Sequoia utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the pre-midnight hour, of a spring weekday (dark, roadway lights present), on a straight, two-lane roadway (bridge span). This roadway runs generally east and west and has a slight uphill grade for the eastbound travel direction, at the area of the crash. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The roadway has a speed limit of 40 mph (64 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2005 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 44-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the eastbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, seat back mounted side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling eastbound. Vehicle 2, a 2004 Toyota Sequoia utility vehicle, was traveling westbound, approaching the crash area from the east. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 drifted left and entered the westbound travel lane. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 in an off-set configuration. Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise 180-degrees and came to rest in the eastbound travel, next to a concrete barrier wall, facing a westerly direction. Vehicle 2 came to rest in the westbound travel lane, facing an unknown direction (suspected to be a southwesterly direction). As a result of the frontal impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle after a prolonged extrication, and transported, by both land and air units, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. The driver and right front passenger of Vehicle 2 were both transported to a local hospital with possible incapacitating injuries, but the extent of their injuries and treatments, if any, are unknown. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.