Case Focus: The focus of this case is on an improperly belted 18-year-old male driver of a 2005 Toyota 4Runner compact utility vehicle, which was involved in a severe head-on collision with a 2011 Honda Odyssey minivan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours (daylight) on a three-lane, north/south roadway. This roadway eventually becomes a divided trafficway at the area of the crash with a painted median. This straight roadway has a downhill grade for the southbound travel direction and a posted speed limit of 35 mph (56 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2005 Toyota 4Runner compact utility vehicle, was being operated by the 18-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the southbound travel lanes, approaching the crash area from the north. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt with noted extra slack and the lap portion of the belt likely positioned at the abdomen level. The case vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 2011 Honda Odyssey minivan, was traveling northbound. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling northbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, as Vehicle 1 traveled south, it drifted left and into the northbound travel lane. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 in a head-on collision. Vehicle 1 came to rest in the northbound travel lane, just south of the impact area. Vehicle 2 was pushed rearward and came to rest in the northbound travel lane, south of the impact area. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: Both drivers were removed from their respective vehicles by responding emergency services personnel (EMS) and transported, by respective land units, to a regional trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was hospitalized with minor to critical injuries, while the driver of Vehicle 2 was treated and released. Both vehicles were towed due to damage sustained in the crash.