Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted 50-year-old female driver, of a 2007 Toyota Solara 2-door coupe, which was involved in a moderate, frontal impact with the right side plane of a 2000 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 large pick-up truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This multi-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) of a spring weekday, at the intersection of a four-lane bituminous north/south roadway and a two-lane, bituminous east/west roadway. The east/west roadway intersects the north/south roadway on the west side, forming a "T-type" intersection (controlled by a stop sign). Leading into the intersection from the north, the roadway has a downhill graded left turning curve. Leading into the intersection from the south, the roadway has downhill graded right turning curve. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. The north/south roadway has a speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2007 Toyota Solara 2-door coupe, was being operated by the 50-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the southbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the north. Occupying the right front seating position was a 17-year-old male passenger. Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, seat back mounted side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 2001 Toyota Land Cruiser utility vehicle, was traveling northbound, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling north. Vehicle 3, a 2000 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 large pick-up truck, was stopped at the southern leg of the intersection, in the left northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 3 was waiting for traffic to clear in order to turn left and continue traveling west. Vehicle 4, a 2006 Kia Spectra5 4-door hatchback, was stopped at the western leg of the intersection, in the eastbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 4 was waiting for traffic to clear in order to turn right and continue traveling south. Crash: For unknown reasons, as Vehicle 2 traveled north, its frontal plane struck the rear plane of Vehicle 3 (event 1). As a result, Vehicle 3 was pushed forward and across the southbound travel lanes in a westerly direction. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 3 (event 2). Both Vehicle 1 and 3 were redirected to the southwest corner of the intersection. Vehicle 3 eventually struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 4 with its right side plane (event 3) before departing the intersection and striking a stop sign post with its frontal plane (event 4) and a ditch with its frontal undercarriage area (event 5). Vehicle 3 came to rest, off the road, at the southwest corner of the intersection, facing a southwesterly direction. Vehicle 1 came to rest at the southwest corner of the intersection, also facing a westerly direction and in close proximity to Vehicle 3. Vehicle 4 came to rest at the western leg of the intersection, in the eastbound travel lane, facing an easterly direction. Vehicle 2 came to rest in the northbound travel lanes at or just beyond the intersection, facing a northerly direction. As a result of the frontal impact (event 2), Vehicle 1's frontal impact air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The drivers of Vehicle 2 and 4 were reported to be uninjured. The driver of Vehicle 3 was reported to have sustained non-incapacitating injuries and was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital. The driver and right front passenger of Vehicle 1 sustained non-incapacitating injuries and were transported, by land unit, to a local hospital; however, the right front passenger was treated and released, but the driver of Vehicle 1 was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. Vehicles 1, 2 and 3 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. Vehicle 4 was driven from the scene by its driver.