This 87-year-old female case occupant was the belted driver of a 2010 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved a moderate, 11 o'clock, frontal impact with the frontal plane of a 2005 Chevrolet Trailblazer utility vehicle. The case occupant was sitting upright in a bucket seat which found, at inspection, in the mid-to-rear seat track position (highly probable post crash movement given the case occupant's height). At the time of the crash, the case occupant was 152 cm (60 inches) in height and weighed 54 kg (120 pounds). During the impact, the case occupant was projected forward and left in reference to the vehicle. The case occupant loaded her seat belt restraint with her upper torso and pelvis, evident by the loading marks at the D-ring and latch plate, as her left knee deformed the knee bolster panel and her right knee scuffed the knee bolster panel at respective locations. As the case occupant moved forward and left, she likely engaged a portion of the deployed frontal air bag with her right chest as her right shoulder area contacted the steering wheel rim. Given the restraint by the seat belt along with portions of the frontal air bag and the deployed side curtain air bag, the case occupant's head extended, while moving downward and left, and struck the door window sill area (small, round indentation in the forward region), while her left chest possibly contacted the rear upper quadrant of the door panel itself (possibly via the side hip/torso air bag or just forward of the deployed air bag). Likewise, her left hip indented the door panel/armrest in the rear lower quadrant area, via the deployed side air bag. Based upon injury and a slightly deformed brake pedal arm, it is suspected that the case occupant's right foot contacted/loaded the brake pedal during the crash. Though there was a minor subsequent secondary impact as the case vehicle traveled to its final rest, the case occupant eventually rebounded and came to rest in her respective seating area in an non-upright posture, where she was found by responding emergency medical services personnel. The case occupant's injuries include fractures of the left 2nd through 7th ribs due to possible contact with the seat belt webbing or possibly with the rear upper quadrant of the door panel. A right chest contusion and an abdomen contusion were the certain result of contact with the seat belt webbing at respective locations, while a right clavicle fracture was the possible result of contact with the steering wheel/rim. A C5 fracture and dislocation, with cord contusion, were the probable result of the case occupant's upper torso being restrained by the deployed frontal air bag and the left side rail curtain as the case occupant's head moved forward and down (flexion), though direct head contact with the left door window sill area is still a possibility. A right knee contusion was the certain result of contact with the knee bolster panel, while a right ankle contusion was the probable result of contact with the floor/toe pan. Finally, a right bimalleolar fracture was the probable result of foot contact with the brake pedal or possibly contact with the floor/toe pan. The maximum Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS) for this case occupant was MAIS 5.