Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted 31-year-old male driver of a 2011 Chevrolet Camaro 2-door coupe, which was primarily involved in a frontal impact with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the post mid-night hours (dark, street lights present) of a late spring weekday, on a two-lane north/south roadway. This roadway is straight, with a downhill grade for the northbound travel direction, and has dedicated bicycle lanes adjacent to either travel lane, as well as dedicated on-street parking for either side of the roadway. At the time of the crash, the weather was reported to be clear though the roadway surface was reported as wet. The roadway has a speed limit of 30 mph (48 km/h) and the overall environment is urban, with commercial businesses occupying both roadside areas. Vehicle 1, the 2011 Chevrolet Camaro 2-door coupe, was being operated by the 31-year old male driver (case occupant) in the southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat-back mounted side air bags (front outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling north. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 departed its travel lane to the left and eventually departed the roadway on the left side (western edge). At this time, Vehicle 1's left front wheel/rim struck a concrete curb (event 1) before it's frontal plane struck a small roadway sign post (event 2). Vehicle 1 continued north along the side walk area and crossed a small intersecting alleyway before its right front wheel/rim struck the curb (event 3) on the north side of the alleyway. At this time, Vehicle 1's frontal plane struck another small roadway sign post (event 4), a street lamp post (event 5) and another small roadway sign post (event 6). Vehicle 1 continued to travel north and subsequently struck a tree with its front right corner area (event 7). At this time, Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise and struck a building with its back plane (event 8) as it rotated clockwise to its final rest position. Vehicle 1 came to rest on the west sidewalk area, just north of the impacted tree and building, facing a southerly direction. As a result of the crash, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed as did both roof side rail curtains. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle after a 30 plus minute extrication effort by fire/rescue and emergency medical services personnel and transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.