Case Focus: The focus of this case is on an unbelted 49-year-old, right front male passenger of a 2013 Hyundai Veloster 3-door hatchback, which was primarily involved in a front right, narrow corner impact with the left side plane (left front corner area) of a 1998 Pontiac Grand Prix 2-door coupe. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the late afternoon hours (daylight), of a summer weekend, at the intersection of a four lane north/south roadway and a two-lane east/west roadway. The east/west roadway intersects the north/south roadway on the west side, forming a "T-type" intersection. The north/south roadway, at the intersection consists of two southbound lanes and two northbound lanes. The southbound travel direction, leading into the intersection, has a positively graded left turning curve, while the east/west roadway, leading into the intersection, is straight with a slight uphill grade. Traffic entering the intersection from the eastbound travel direction is controlled by a posted sign. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Both roadways have a speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2013 Hyundai Veloster 3-door hatchback, was being operated by a belted, 20-year-old female driver in the left southbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the north. Occupying the right front seating position was the unbelted 49-year-old male passenger. Occupying the left and right rear seating positions were a 15-year-old male passenger and a 17-year-old male passenger, respectively. Although Vehicle 1 is not equipped with a center rear seating position, the area was still occupied by a 20-year-old male passenger. All three rear passengers were not belted. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, front, seat back mounted side impact air bags (outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to cross through the intersection while negotiating the left turning curve and continue traveling south. Vehicle 2, a 1998 Pontiac Grand Prix 2-door coupe, was stopped at the intersection in the eastbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling northbound. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the driver of Vehicle 1, seeing the approach of Vehicle 2, steered left in order to avoid a collision, but was unsuccessful. The frontal plane of Vehicle 1 (front right corner area) struck the left side plane of Vehicle 2 (left front corner area). Vehicle 2 was rotated clockwise and came to rest in the intersection, facing a southwesterly direction. Vehicle 1 was redirected in a southwesterly direction and departed the east edge of the roadway some distance south of the intersection where it came to rest facing a southerly direction. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's frontal impact air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver and the three rear occupants of Vehicle 1 were able to exit the vehicle under their own power and were reported to be uninjured. The right front male passenger of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was removed from the vehicle by responding emergency medical services personnel and transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to critical injuries. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.