Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted 57-year-old, female driver of a 2008 Chevrolet Uplander minivan, which was primarily involved in a frontal impact, inclusive of the lower front undercarriage, with an embankment. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the early morning hours (dawn), of a summer weekend day, at the intersection of a north/south, two-lane roadway (access ramp lanes for an interchange) and a two-lane, east/west roadway. The north/south roadway intersects the east/west roadway on the north side, forming a T-type intersection. Leading into the intersection, the north/south roadway has a right turning curve and a downhill grade. Access into the intersection is controlled by a posted stop sign. The east/west roadway is relatively straight and level and has no controls for access into and through the intersection. The north/south roadway (access ramp lanes) has a speed limit of 25 mph (40 mph). At the time of the crash, the weather was reported to be clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2008 Chevrolet Uplander minivan, was being operated by the 57-year-old female driver (case occupant), in the southbound ramp lane, approaching the intersection from the north. The driver of Vehicle 1 was noted to be utilizing her 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner) and the case vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags only. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the right turning curve and come to a stop at the intersection before turning left and traveling east. Crash: For unknown reasons (possible distraction), Vehicle 1 traveled into and through the intersection and departed the south side of the intersection. At this time, Vehicle 1's frontal plane (including undercarriage) struck an embankment (event 1) and two small vertical metal sign posts (events 2 and 3) before coming to rest at the impact area, facing a southerly direction. As a result of the impact with the embankment, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed and the belt pretensioner actuated. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was removed from the vehicle and transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to critical injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.