Case Focus: The focus of this case is on an unbelted 17-year old, male driver of a 2014 Honda Civic 2-door coupe, which was primarily involved in a severe frontal impact with a utility pole. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the post mid-night hours (dark, no street lights) on a two lane north/south roadway. Leading into the crash area, the northbound travel direction is straight with a slight uphill grade, but curves to the left at the area of the crash. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The roadway has a speed limit of 35 mph (56 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2014 Honda Civic 2-door coupe, was being operated by the 17-year-old male case occupant in the northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was not belted, but Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat-back mounted side impact air bags (front outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the left turning curve and continue traveling northbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 departed the east side of the roadway at the area of an intersecting residential roadway. At this time, Vehicle 1's right side wheels struck a curb at the northeast corner of the intersection (events 1 and 2). Vehicle 1 continued traveling in a northerly direction and subsequently struck a utility pole with its frontal plane (event 3). Vehicle 1 is believed to have rotated clockwise after striking the pole and came to rest near the pole impact area, facing an easterly direction. As Vehicle 1 came to rest, it gouged the surface of the roadway with it's left rear wheel/rim (event 4). After coming to rest, falling debris from the utility pole struck the top plane of Vehicle1 at different areas (event 5). As a result of the crash, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed as did both front, seat back mounted side air bags and roof side rail curtains. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.