Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted 56-year-old, male driver of a 2010 Hyundai Genesis 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a frontal undercarriage impact with a culvert embankment. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the evening hours (dark, no street lights) of a summer weekend, on a two-lane north/south roadway. This roadway is level with a left turning curve for the northbound travel direction. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The roadway has a speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h) and the overall environment is rural. Vehicle 1, the 2010 Hyundai Genesis 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 56-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat-back mounted side air bags (front and rear outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the left turning curve and continue traveling north. Crash: As Vehicle 1 entered the area of the left turning curve, it departed the east roadway edge, while traveling straight. Vehicle 1 subsequently struck a mail box with its frontal plane (event 1) and then a culvert embankment with its frontal-undercarriage area (event 2). Vehicle 1 subsequently rolled over (event 3), during which it struck an electrical utility box with its top plane (event 4). Vehicle 1 rolled 1 complete turn (4 quarter turns) and then slid through an open field. Vehicle 1 eventually struck the ground with its back plane (event 5) before coming to rest on an adjacent residential roadway, facing a northeasterly direction. As a result of the crash, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.