Case Focus: The focus of this case is on an unbelted 28-year-old, male driver of a 2011 Chrysler 300 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a near side impact (left side) with a large tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the post mid-night hour (dark, no street lights) of a summer weekend, on a two-lane, bituminous east/west roadway. This roadway is straight, but has a slight negative grade (less than two percent - considered level) and a left turning curve at the area of the crash. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The roadway has a speed limit of 30 mph (48 km/h) and the overall environment is rural. Vehicle 1, the 2011 Chrysler 300 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 28-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the westbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was not belted, but the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, a driver's knee air bag, seat-back mounted side air bags (front outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the left turning curve and continue traveling west. Crash: As Vehicle 1 entered the area of the left turning curve, it departed the north roadway edge. Vehicle 1 subsequently struck a tree with its right side plane (event 1) but continued in a westerly direction while rotating clockwise. Vehicle 1 impacted some small shrubs/brush with its frontal plane (event 2) before striking a large tree with its left side plane (event 3). Vehicle 1 is suspected to have rotated counterclockwise an unknown degree and came to rest at or near the last tree impact, likely facing a northwesterly direction. As a result of the first tree impact (event 1), Vehicle 1's seat belt pretensioner's actuated; the driver's frontal air bag and knee bolster air bag deployed, as did the right roof side rail and the right front passenger's seat back mounted side air bag. As a result of the last tree impact (event 3), Vehicle 1's left roof side rail curtain and the driver's seat-back mounted hip/torso air bag deployed (with noted seat belt "pinching / restriction"). Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was extricated (unknown duration) from the vehicle by responding fire/rescue and emergency medical services personnel, and transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.