Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 29-year-old female driver of a 2007 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in an offset frontal impact (mimics a corner impact extending down the side plane) with the frontal plane of a 2012 Peterbilt model 348 heavy/medium straight truck (configured as a tanker). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the post-midnight hours (dark, street lights present) of a spring weekday, on a two-lane roadway, within the confines of a tunnel. At the area of the crash, the southbound travel direction has a downhill grade and left turning curve. At the time of the crash, the roadway had a speed limit of 30 mph (48 km/h) and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 29-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the southbound travel lane. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her 3-point, lap/shoulder belt and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat-back mounted side air bags (front outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the graded and curved section of the roadway and continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 2012 Peterbilt model 348 heavy/medium straight truck (configured as a tanker), was traveling northbound. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling northbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 departed the roadway to the right and struck the curb with its right front wheel and right rear wheel (events 1 and 2) before traveling across the southbound travel lane and entering the northbound travel lane. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 (event 3). Vehicle 1 then rotated counterclockwise and struck the tunnel wall with its back right corner (event 4) before coming to rest. Vehicle 2 subsequently came to rest, but experienced a vehicle fire (event 5) which was extinguished by the driver of Vehicle 2. As a result of the impact with Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag, side hip/torso air bag and left side rail curtain deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was extricated and transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was transported to a local hospital, but the extent of his injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.