Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted 50-year-old, female driver of a 2006 Ford Escape (hybrid) compact utility vehicle, which was involved in an oblique frontal impact with the left side plane of a 2003 Toyota 4Runner compact utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This three-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight) of a winter weekday, on a four lane north/south trafficway, inclusive of an intersection. This north/south trafficway is relatively straight and consists of two northbound through lanes separated from two southbound through lanes by a painted median (formerly a center, left turn lane). The impact area forms the northern leg of a "T-type" intersection. Though the intersection is just south of the impact area, it did not play a part in the crash. The southbound roadway, leading into the intersection from the north, has an uphill grade. Traffic leading into and through the intersection is controlled by overhead, standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals. The speed limit for the north/south trafficway on either side of the intersection is 45 mph (72 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear, but the roadway surfaces were reported to be wet. Vehicle 1, the 2006 Ford Escape (hybrid) compact utility vehicle, was being operated by the 50-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the left southbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the north. Occupying the right front seating position was a 68-year-old male passenger. Occupying the left, center and right rear seating positions were a 14-year-old female, a 14-year-old male and a 19-year-old male respectively. Both the driver and right front passenger were restrained by their respective 3-point, lap/shoulder belts, while the second row passengers appeared to be unrestrained, based upon the interior vehicle inspection. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with redesigned frontal air bags only. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling southbound and through the intersection. Vehicle 2, a 2003 Toyota 4Runner compact utility vehicle, was traveling in the right northbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling north in the right northbound lane, through the intersection and beyond. Vehicle 3, a 2001 Toyota Avalon 4-door sedan, was traveling southbound in the left southbound through lane, behind Vehicle 1, approaching the intersection from the north. The driver of Vehicle 3 intended to continue traveling southbound and through the intersection. Crash: As Vehicle 2 traveled through the intersection, traffic in front of Vehicle 2 started to stop. The driver of Vehicle 2 swerved left to avoid the stopping vehicles and entered the left northbound lane, but in doing so, lost control (suspected left then right steering maneuver). Vehicle 2 began to slide, left side leading, into the southbound travel lanes. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Vehicle 1 is believed to have come to rest in the southbound travel lanes, facing a possible southwesterly direction, just at or north of the intersection. After the impact, Vehicle 2 was spun counterclockwise and was subsequently struck on the right side plane by Vehicle 3's frontal plane (event 2). At this time, both Vehicle 2 and Vehicle 3 came to rest in the southbound travel lanes, north of the intersection. As a result of the first event, Vehicle 1's frontal impact air bags deployed and the front seat belt pretensioners (buckle type) actuated. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital, by land unit, but was later transferred (post-midnight) to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The right front passenger of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital with incapacitating injuries. The left and center rear child passengers were also transported to a local hospital and treated and released with minor injuries. The right rear passenger of Vehicle 1 was also reported to be transported and released, but supposedly uninjured. Both the driver of Vehicle 2 and Vehicle 3 were reported as being transported with non-incapacitating injuries, but the extent of their injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. All three vehicles involved in the crash were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.