Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 27-year-old male driver of a 2007 Scion tc 2-door hatchback, which was primarily involved in a far side impact with the termination end of a guardrail (sustained impact with the guardrail section, with two areas of interior penetration). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the post-midnight hours (dark, street lights present) of a spring weekday, at the transition/merge area of two trafficways. Both trafficways (one from the east and one from the west) consist of two travel lanes and have long sweeping curves (left handed from the west and right handed from the east). These two trafficways eventually form a straight, four-lane northbound roadway, with guardrails at either side of the roadway. The speed limit for all roadways in this area is 55 mph (89 km/h) and at the time of the crash, it was raining and the roadway surfaces were wet. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Scion tc 2-door hatchback, was being operated by the 27-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the left travel lane of the trafficway from the east (left handed curve), approaching the merge/transition area. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his 3-point, lap/shoulder belt and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat-back mounted side air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the curved section of roadway and continue traveling northbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 negotiated the left handed curve, it experienced a loss of control and eventually departed the west side (left side) of the northbound roadway at the area of convergence. At this time, the right side plane of Vehicle 1 struck the end plane of a guardrail (event 1). Vehicle 1 continued to engage the guardrail section with its right side plane (events 2 and 3) with two areas of noted guardrail penetration into the passenger compartment. Vehicle 1 eventually rotated clockwise out of the guardrail impact area and slid down the west roadside embankment into an area of vegetation (event 4) that included minor brush and shrubs, striking the same with its lower left side plane (possibly inclusive of the left front wheel). Vehicle 1 reportedly came to rest in this area, facing an easterly direction. As a result of the guardrail impact, Vehicle 1's right side impact air bags deployed (with possibly restricted deployment of the right front, seat backrest mounted side air bag). As a result of the left side plane impact, Vehicle 1's left side impact air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was extricated and transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.