Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 79-year-old female driver of a 2012 Ford Fusion 4-door sedan, which was involved in a head-on frontal impact with a 2007 Chevrolet Suburban utility station wagon. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the post mid-day hour (daylight) of a late spring weekend day, at the intersection of a five-lane north/south roadway and a three-lane east/west roadway. The southern leg of the intersection is straight, with an uphill grade and consists of three northbound travel lanes (two through lanes and one dedicated left turn lane) and two southbound travel lanes. The northern leg of the intersection has the same lane configuration and number, but has a negative grade and a right turning curve leading into the intersection from the north. The east/west roadway did not play a part in the crash. Traffic entering and passing through the intersection is controlled by overhead, standard electric tri-colored traffic signals. The speed limit for the north/south roadway is 40 mph (64 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2012 Ford Fusion 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 79-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the right, northbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the south. Occupying the right front seating position was a 77-year-old male passenger. Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point, lap/shoulder belts and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling northbound. Vehicle 2, a 2007 Chevrolet Suburban utility station wagon, was approaching the intersection from the north in the left southbound through lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling southbound. Crash: As Vehicle 2 approached the intersection from the north, it failed to negotiate the right turning curve. Vehicle 2 drifted left, across the southbound left turn lane and into the northbound travel lanes. Vehicle 2's frontal plane subsequently struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1) in the right northbound travel lane, at or near the northeast corner of the intersection. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's frontal impact air bags deployed. Vehicle 1 was reportedly pushed backwards and reportedly came to rest in the northbound travel lane, at the southeast corner of the intersection, facing a northerly direction. Vehicle 2 reportedly came to rest at or near the impact area, facing a southerly direction. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle and transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The right front male passenger of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital with non-incapacitating injuries, but the extent of his injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. The driver of Vehicle 2 was also transported, by land unit, to a local hospital with reportedly non-incapacitating injuries. The extent of his injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.