Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 40-year-old female driver of a 2012 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a head-on collision with the frontal plane of a 2014 Honda Accord 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the pre-mid night hours (dark, no street lights) of a fall weekday, on a two-lane bituminous roadway. This roadway runs generally east and west, in the area of the crash and has a right turning curve and a slight downhill grade for the westbound travel direction. The speed limit for the roadway is 45 mph (72 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2012 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 40-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the westbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her 3-point lap/shoulder belt and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, side impact torso air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling westbound. Vehicle 2, a 2014 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound, approaching the crash area from the west. The driver and a right front passenger of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling eastbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 traveled west, it drifted into the eastbound travel lane and subsequently struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 with its frontal plane (head-on collision). Reportedly, Vehicle 1 came to rest straddling the westbound roadway edge, facing a southeasterly direction, while Vehicle 2 came to rest, just west of Vehicle 1, straddling the westbound roadway edge, also facing a southeasterly direction. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag, hip torso side bag and left side rail curtain deployed. Vehicle 1 also has damage to the back right corner area (minor) due to an unknown contact source. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 reportedly was able to self extricate herself (probably with assistance) and was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver and right front passenger of Vehicle 2 were also transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, both with minor injuries. The extent of their injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.