Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a restrained 55-year-old female driver of a 2012 Toyota Highlander utility vehicle, which was primarily involved in a frontal impact with the right side plane of a 2004 Toyota 4Runner utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the mid-day hours (daylight) of an early autumn weekend day, at the intersection of a three-lane east/west roadway and a two-lane, north/south roadway. At the intersection, the east/west roadway consists of three travel lanes (a westbound through lane, and eastbound through lane and a dedicated left turn lane for both travel directions) and is relatively straight, with a downhill grade for the westbound travel direction, approaching the intersection from the east. The northbound roadway consists of two travel lanes (one-lane each direction) and has a slight uphill grade for the northbound travel direction, entering the intersection from the south. Traffic entering the intersection at the north and south legs of the intersection are controlled by posted signage (stop signs). The speed limit for the east/west roadway is 45 mph (72 km/h), while the north/south roadway has a speed limit of 30 mph (48 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2012 Toyota Highlander utility vehicle, was being operated by the 55-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the westbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the east. Occupying the right front seating position was a 24-year-old male passenger. Both the driver and right front passenger were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, a driver's knee bolster air bag, side impact hip/torso air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling westbound. Vehicle 2, a 2004 Toyota 4Runner compact utility vehicle, was stopped at the southern leg of the intersection, in the northbound travel lane. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 2 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling northbound. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Both vehicles were redirected in a northwesterly direction and subsequently "side slapped" with the right side plane of Vehicle 2 contacting the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 2). Both vehicles departed the roadway at the northwest corner with Vehicle 1 striking a sign post with its frontal plane (event 3) before coming to rest at an embankment. Vehicle 2 also came to rest, off road, at the northwest corner of the intersection, in close proximity to Vehicle 1. As a result of the crash, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags, driver's knee bolster air bag, driver's side impact hip/torso air bag and both roof side rail curtains deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was extricated from Vehicle 1 by fire/rescue personnel and transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The right front passenger of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital and treated and released. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 2 was reported to have sustained non-incapacitating injuries and was also transported from the scene by land unit to a local hospital where they were reported to have been treated and released with minor injuries. Both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.