Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 29-year-old male driver of a 2010 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a frontal impact with a large tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight) of a fall weekday, on a bituminous, two-lane north/south roadway. This roadway is level, but has a long gradual left turning curve leading into the crash area from the south. The speed limit for this roadway is 40 mph (64 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2010 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 29-year-old male driver (case occupant 1) in the northbound travel lane. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 1 was not restrained by an available 3-point lap/shoulder belt, but Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with frontal impact air bags, side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the left turning curve and continue traveling northbound. Crash: Reportedly, a deer entered the path of Vehicle 1 and the driver attempted to steer left, but still struck the deer with an unknown plane (event 1: based upon police report, but unconfirmed and possibly overlapping with other crash related damage). Vehicle 1 entered the southbound travel lane and the driver attempted to brake. Vehicle 1 subsequently departed the west edge of the roadway and struck the far side embankment of a ditch with its lower front undercarriage (event 2). Vehicle 1 continued on a short distance and eventually struck a small tree with its left front corner, with sideswipe damage extending down the left side plane (event 3). Vehicle 1 then struck a much larger tree with its front left plane (event 4). Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest in the area of the large tree, facing a westerly direction. It should be noted that the right front fender sheet metal exhibited minor deformation damage that could not be attributed to any object at the crash area, but was still included as part of the crash as an unknown object/event (event 5). It should also be noted that the event data report/crash data report recorded a right, lateral side event for Vehicle 1, but without definitive event timing or information. It is believed that as a result of the large tree impact (event 4), Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed. It could not be determined which event resulted in the roof side rail curtains deploying. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was extricated from the vehicle (roof structure removed) and transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed due to damage sustained in the crash.