Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 46-year-old male driver of a 2007 Chevrolet Impala 4-door sedan, which was involved in a near side impact by the frontal plane of a 2010 Ford Taurus 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the mid-day hour (daylight) of a summer weekday, on a curved, two-lane, level roadway. This roadway runs generally north and south and has a left turning curve for the northbound travel direction. The speed limit for the roadway is 40 mph (64 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Chevrolet Impala 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 46-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the northbound travel lane. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his 3-point lap/shoulder belt and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 was negotiating the left turning curve and intended to continue traveling northbound. Vehicle 2, a 2010 Ford Taurus 4-door sedan, was traveling southbound, approaching the crash area from the north. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 2 intended to negotiate the right turning curve and continue traveling southbound. Crash: As Vehicle 2 negotiated the right turning curve, it drifted left into the northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1, seeing the approach of Vehicle 2, steered right into the east paved shoulder area and braked. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1). Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise as it was pushed back and off the roadway. Vehicle 1 came to rest, at the east roadside, facing a westerly direction. Vehicle 2 deflected out of the impact and traveled south, coming to a stop in the southbound travel lane, south of the impact area, facing a southerly direction. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed, as did both roof side rail curtains. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was extricated from Vehicle 1 by fire/rescue personnel and transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 2 was reported to have sustained non-incapacitating injuries and was also transported from the scene by air unit. The extent of their injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.