Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 55-year-old female driver of a 2010 Hyundai Tucson compact utility vehicle, which was involved in a far side impact (with a subsequent one-quarter turn rollover to the left), by the frontal plane of a 2004 Jaguar X-type 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) of a fall weekday, at the intersection of a bituminous southbound roadway (one-way) and a bituminous eastbound roadway (one-way). Both the southbound and eastbound roadways are straight and consist of two travel lanes. Leading into the intersection, the eastbound roadway has a slight uphill grade while the southbound roadway has a noticeable downhill grade. The intersection is controlled by standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals, atop lamp posts positioned at the corners of the intersection. The two roadways intersect at a slightly obtuse angle. The speed limit for both roadways is 25 mph (40 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2010 Hyundai Tucson compact utility vehicle, was being operated by the 55-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the right southbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the north. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her 3-point lap/shoulder belt and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, side impact hip/torso air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 2004 Jaguar X-type 4-door sedan, was traveling in the left eastbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the west. The driver and a right front passenger of Vehicle 2 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling east. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1). Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise and rolled left one-quarter turn onto its left side plane (event 2) and came to rest, south of the impact area, in the northbound travel lane, at the southern leg of the intersection. Vehicle 2 is believed to have rotated clockwise an unknown degree and came to rest within the intersection, facing a southeasterly direction. As a result of the first impact (event 1), Vehicle 1's right front, side hip/torso air bag and right roof side rail curtain deployed. As a result of the second event (roll onto the left side plane), Vehicle 1's driver's side hip/torso air bag and left roof side rail curtain deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was assisted from the vehicle and transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, treated and released. However, the driver of Vehicle 1 sought treatment approximately seven days later at a local hospital and was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center where she was hospitalized with a severe injury. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to have sustained non-incapacitating injuries and was transported from the scene, while the right front passenger of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured. Both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.