Case Focus: The focus of this case is on an 82-year-old female right front passenger of a 2009 Infiniti G37 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a far side impact by the frontal plane of a 2002 Dodge Ram K1500 large pick-up truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) of a summer weekday, at the intersection of a commercial parking lot entrance and a north/south trafficway. The parking lot entrance accommodates two-way traffic and intersects the trafficway on the west side. The southbound roadway of the north/south trafficway, prior to the parking lot entrance, consists of two travel lanes and is separated from the two northbound travel lanes by a painted median. The southbound travel direction has an uphill grade and a right turning curve prior to the intersection with the commercial parking lot entrance. At and south of the commercial parking lot entrance the traffiway becomes a six-lane roadway (two northbound lanes and four southbound travel lanes). Opposite the commercial parking lot entrance, on the eastside of the north/south trafficway, is a limited access entrance/exit area to a mall parking lot (entrance and exit only from the northbound travel direction). The speed limit for the north/south trafficway is 35 mph (56 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2009 Infiniti G37 4-door sedan, was being operated by a 56-year-old female driver in the exit lane of the commercial parking lot. Occupying the right front seating position was the 82-year-old female passenger (case occupant). It could not be determined if the driver was utilizing her 3-point lap/shoulder belt, but the right front passenger was restrained by her 3-point, lap/shoulder belt. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, side impact hip/torso air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 was stopped at the exit lane waiting for traffic to clear in order to turn right and continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 2002 Dodge Ram K1500 large pick-up truck, was in the left, southbound travel lane, approaching the intersection of the parking lot entrance from the north. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to negotiate the right turning curve and continue traveling southbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, as Vehicle 2 traveled south it drifted right and departed the southbound roadway at the northwest corner of the parking lot entrance. At this time, reportedly, the driver of Vehicle 2 fell out of the vehicle and onto the roadway surface (event 1). Vehicle 2 continued on and subsequently struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 with its frontal plane (event 2). Vehicle 1 was pushed in a southerly direction where it's right front wheel and sill area struck a curb (event 3). At this time, Vehicle 1 started to roll right about the longitidunal axis, with its right side plane (front section) now contacting the curb and ground; however, Vehicle 1 struck a utility pole (non-horizontal impact / event 4) with its right side plane and a sign post (event 5) with its top plane (across the backlight area near the pole impact area), both of which interupted the rollover process. Damage at two separate areas to the right side plane (right front fender and right front passenger door area) were the suspected result of contact with the ground / curb during the pre-roll motion and are believed to be a continuation of the event 3 impact with the curb/ground. Vehicle 1 is believed to have come to rest at the southwest corner of the intersection, facing an easterly direction, on all four wheels. As a result of the impact with Vehicle 2 (event 2), Vehicle 1's left side hip/torso air bag and left side rail curtain deployed. As a result of an impact to the right side plane, Vehicle 1's right side hip/torso air bag and right roof side rail curtain deployed. Vehicle 2 disengaged from Vehicle 1 and crossed the north/south roadway and came to rest at the east roadside area, at the entrance/exit area to the mall parking lot, facing a northerly direction. Post-Crash: The driver and right front passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was treated and released with minor injuries, but the right front passenger of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was hospitalized with moderate injuries. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 2 was reported to have sustained possible incapacitating injuries and was also transported from the scene by land unit. The extent of his injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.