Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 66-year-old right front female passenger of a 2009 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in narrow corner frontal impact with the left side plane of a 2001 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight) of a summer weekend day, at the intersection of an east/west roadway and a north/south roadway. Both roadways are relatively straight and level and the overall environment is rural. The intersection is controlled by flashing, overhead, single-colored, electric signals (yellow for east/west and red for north/south), while traffic entering the intersection from the northern and southern legs is also controlled by posted signage (stop sign). The speed limit for the east/west roadway is 50 mph (80 km/h), while the north/south roadway has a speed limit of 40 mph (64 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2009 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, was being operated by a 62-year-old male driver in the westbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the east. Occupying the right front seating position was the 66-year-old female case occupant. Both the driver and the right front passenger were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, side impact hip/torso air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling westbound. Vehicle 2, a 2001 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan, was traveling southbound, approaching the crash area from the north. The driver and two passengers of Vehicle 2 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling southbound. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 (front right corner) struck the left side plane of Vehicle 2 (left front corner) within the intersection (event 1). Both vehicles were redirected towards the southwest corner of the intersection and subsequently "side slapped" with the left side plane of Vehicle 2 contacting the right side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 2). Both vehicles departed the roadway at the southwest corner where upon Vehicle 1's frontal plane (front left) struck an embankment (event 3) and a grouping of poles (event 4). Vehicle 1 continued on in westerly direction and came to rest, facing west, along the south roadside area. Vehicle 2 also came to rest, facing a westerly direction at the south roadside edge, at or near Vehicle 1. As a result of the crash, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags, side hip/torso air bags and roof side rail curtain air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver and right front passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported, by land unit, to a local hospital. The driver of Vehicle 1 was treated and released with minor injuries, but the right front passenger of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. The driver and two passengers of Vehicle 2 were also transported, by land units, to a local hospital; however, the driver and a child passenger were subsequently transferred to regional trauma centers and hospitalized. The extent of their injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.