Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 59-year-old male driver of a 2013 Subaru Forester compact utility vehicle, which was primarily involved in a near side impact (left side plane) by the frontal plane of a 2001 Ford F-150 large pick-up truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight) of a fall weekday, at the intersection of an east/west trafficway and a north/south roadway. The east/west trafficway consists of three eastbound lanes separated from four westbound lanes by a raised concrete median. The east/west trafficway is straight with a negative grade for the eastbound travel direction. The north/south roadway consists of two travel lanes (one for each direction). The northern leg of the intersection intersects the east/west trafficway at a right angle, whereas the southern leg of the intersection intersects the trafficway at an obtuse angle and is somewhat offset (further west) from the northern leg. The southbound travel direction, at the northern leg, has a positive grade leading into the intersection. The east/west trafficway has a speed limit of 30 mph (48 km/h) with no traffic controls, while the north/south roadway has a speed limit of 15 mph (24 km/h) with traffic controls in the form of signage. At the time of the crash, it was raining and the roadway surfaces were wet. Vehicle 1, the 2013 Subaru Forester 4-door compact utility vehicle, was being operated by the 59-year-old male driver (case occupant 1) in the center, eastbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the west. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 1 was restrained by a 3-point lap/shoulder belt and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with frontal impact air bags, side impact hip/torso air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling east. Vehicle 2, the 2001 Ford F-150 large pick-up truck, was being operated by its driver and sole occupant in the southbound travel lane, at the northern leg of the intersection. The driver of Vehicle 2 was stopped at the intersection and intended to pass through the intersection (cross over the east/west trafficway) and continue traveling south. It should be noted that based upon the physical damage appearance to Vehicle 1, Vehicle 2 probably had some type of attachment to the frontal plane (i.e. brush bar, plow attachment frame, etc.). Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1). As a result, Vehicle 1 was redirected towards the southeast corner of the intersection. Vehicle 1 struck the curb with its front right wheel (event 2) and departed the south edge of the eastbound roadway. Vehicle 1 struck a street lamp pole with its frontal plane (event 3) and rotated counterclockwise a small amount an eventually struck a chain link fence with its right front plane (event 4) before coming to a stop. At this time, debris from the struck street lamp pole fell onto the top plane of Vehicle 1 (event 5). Vehicle 1 came to rest, off the roadway, at the southeast corner of the intersection, facing an easterly direction. Vehicle 2 came to rest within the intersection, after rotating counterclockwise and unknown degree, facing a southeasterly direction. As a result of the first and main impact (event 1), Vehicle 1's driver's side hip/torso air bag deployed as did the left roof side rail curtain air bag. Post-Crash: Both the driver of Vehicle 2 and the driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant 1) were able to extricate themselves from their vehicles and were treated on scene. The driver of Vehicle 1 left the scene, but later that day went to a regional trauma center, due to pain, and was hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was also treated on scene. It is not known if the driver of Vehicle 2 sought treatment later. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene, but not due to disabling damage. Vehicle 2 was reported to be disabled, but unknown if towed from the scene.