This case involved the belted 61-year-old female driver of a pickup responding to a left side leading, four quarter-turn trip-over sequence. The vehicle sustained moderate damage severity while the subject received serious injury, primarily due to partial ejection of that hand. This two-vehicle crash occurred on the eastbound side of a divided, four-lane interstate traveling through a rural area. There were two lanes for travel in each direction divided by a natural median. The concrete roadway had a long, gradual left curve and uphill grade. There was an overpass in the midst of the curve and on this day it was iced over. The left roadside consisted of a paved shoulder and the median. The right roadside (south) consisted of a paved shoulder that gave way to a shallow loose dirt embankment leading downward to the paved surface of an entrance ramp adjoining the interstate at that point. The weather was clear and the roadway surface icy during the morning (daylight) weekday crash. The Case Vehicle (V1, 2008 Ford F150 FX2 Sport pickup) was traveling eastbound in the number-one (right) lane behind other motorists. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row frontal-impact air bags. The 61-year-old female driver (case subject/sole occupant) was determined to have been using the belt restraint during the crash. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2000 BMW 323ci) was traveling eastbound ahead of V1 in the number-one lane. Several vehicles had 'spun-out' as they crossed the overpass (iced over) and had lost control. V2 lost control as he encountered the ice as well and began to spin counterclockwise as he continued east, placing V2's left plane perpendicular to traffic. The subject (V1 driver) observed this and steered left, in an effort to avoid, or go around, V2. The left front of V2 was struck by the right side of V1 in a 'minimal damage' impact. The contact resulted in the subject steering right more severely than she had intended and the vehicle began a clockwise yaw as it traveled off of the right (south) roadside, across the shoulder and down into the shallow depression. V1's front left tire lost its bead and the rim dug into the soft dirt, tripping the vehicle to the left. Damage indicates that the vehicle rolled onto its left side, landing just above the beltline, and continued over until coming to rest on its wheels facing west on the north shoulder of the adjacent on-ramp. V2, meanwhile, had slid off of the north side of the roadway and came to rest in the median facing westerly. Both vehicles were towed from the scene, V1 due to disabling damage. The subject/driver of V1 was transported to a trauma facility due to serious injury.