This case involved a belted driver responding to a head-on collision (frontal impact with another passenger vehicle) with frontal impact air bag deployment. This crash occurred on a two-lane, east/west, street traveling through a residential area. There was a single lane for traffic in each direction separated by a painted double yellow line. West of this crash site there was a three-legged intersection adjoining from the south. The roadway was straight with a gradual incline for westbound traffic. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the evening (dark, no street lights) weekday crash. The case vehicle one (V1) a, 1998 Honda Civic 2-door hatchback, was traveling westbound. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and driver and front row passenger frontal impact air bags. The 48-year-old female driver (case subject) was determined to have been using the belt restraint based on 'other than physical evidence'. The additional 23-year-old female front right seat passenger was also determined to have been using the belt restraint. The opposing vehicle two (V2), a 1990 Buick Regal 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound. The driver was the sole occupant of V2. V2 had made a wide right turn (from northbound T-intersection street) onto the eastbound trafficway, entering into the westbound lane where the front of V2 struck the front left of another passenger vehicle, which had stopped in time to avoid a solid collision. After the glancing blow the driver of V2 stopped and then continued eastbound, swerving into and out of the eastbound lane until finally entering the path of V1. The driver of V1 (subject) observed the preceding events and applied her brakes without lockup. The front of V1 struck the front of V2. V1's frontal impact air bags deployed. The impact caused V1 to rebound slightly and come to rest adjacent to the impact point facing westbound, its original direction. V2 rotated slightly counterclockwise and came to rest facing V1, northeast. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The subject (driver of V1) was transported to a trauma facility due to 'severe' injury(s). The front right seat passenger of V1 was also transported due to less than 'severe' injury. The driver of V2 was transported with an internal injury as reported by the police crash report.