This case involved a belted front right seat passenger responding to a frontal impact with the back of another passenger vehicle (stopped). The subject's frontal impact air bag deployed. This three-vehicle crash occurred on a multi-lane, divided, interstate traveling through an urban area. The north/south trafficway had five lanes for northbound travel, was straight, level and was surfaced with concrete. The weather was clear and the roadway dry during the night-time (dark-street lights), weekday crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2002 Nissan Sentra, 4-door sedan) was traveling northbound in the number-three lane. The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row frontal impact air bags. The two occupants, a 31-year-old male driver and a 24-year-old female front right seat passenger (case subject) were both using the belt restraints. The opposing vehicle (V2, 1992 Mercury "station-wagon")was sitting, stopped, in the northbound number-three lane apparently without lights on. There was one occupant inside V2. The third vehicle (V3, 2005 Chevrolet Cobalt, unknown body type) was traveling northbound in the number-three lane to the rear of V1. There were three occupants in V3. As V1 approached V2 from the rear, the driver of V1 observed the stopped V2 and attempted to steer left in an effort to avoid it. The maneuver resulted in the front right of V1 striking V2 in the back left. V1's first row frontal impact air bags deployed. The impact propelled V2 forward and to the right where it came to rest facing northeast straddling the number-one and two lanes. Meanwhile, the impact had caused V1 to begin to rotate clockwise as it pushed V2 out of the way. Before V1 could rotate significantly, however, it was struck on its back right corner by the front of V3. The secondary impact to the back of V1 ceased its rotation and propelled it to the left where it came to rest facing north straddling the number-five/median lane line. V3 came to rest facing north in the number-three lane. All three vehicles were towed as a result of damage. The case subject, a 24 year old female (front right seat passenger V1) was transported to a trauma facility due to 'severe' injury(s). The driver of V1 was not reported as injured.