This case involved the unbelted male front right seat passenger of a passenger car responding to a frontal, off-set left collision with the front of another passenger car. The eleven o'clock principal direction of force impact caused 'moderate' vehicle damage and resulted in serious injury. The subject's frontal-impact air bag deployed. This two-vehicle crash occurred at a four-way intersection in a rural residential area. The straight east/west trafficway had a single lane for travel in each direction separated by a continuous center turn lane. There was only a single stop sign controlling the southbound approach to the intersection. The northbound approach was, in effect, a driveway and there was no control at its intersection. There were no lane delineations though it is used as a two lane, two way road/driveway. The concrete road was straight and had an upward grade as it intersected the, level, bituminous east/west roadway. The weather was clear and the roads dry during the daytime crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2006 Saturn ION, four-door sedan) was traveling northbound on its approach to the intersection with the intention of turning left. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts (pretensioner equipped), first row frontal-impact air bags.. There were two occupants in V1. The seventy-year-old female driver was using the belt restraint based on the condition found. The 65-year-old male front right seat passenger (case subject) was not using the belt restraint. The opposing vehicle (V2, 1994 Buick Century, four-door sedan) was traveling eastbound on its approach to the intersection with the intention of traveling straight through. V1 (northbound) came to a stop at the intersection with the east/west road. V1 began to turn left across the intersection, to the point its front plane was angled toward the front of V2, approaching from its left. The driver of V2 had observed this and had begun a slight left steering maneuver. The front of V2 struck the front of V1 in the center of the intersection. The eleven o'clock principal direction of force deployed the case vehicle frontal air bags. The impact deflected V1 to the right (clockwise) approximately 90-degrees, as the left rear of V1 struck the right rear of V2 in a secondary impact (side-slap). V1 rolled, tracking, to a third event and its final rest against a small steel street sign pole facing northeast. V2 had come to rest within the intersection facing northeast. Both vehicles were towed from the scene, V1 due to disabling damage. The driver of V1 was transported with minor injuries. The case subject (front right passenger) was transported to a trauma facility with serious injuries.