This case involved the unbelted female front right seat passenger of a sport utility vehicle responding to a six quarter-turn rollover. The vehicle damage was 'severe' and the subject received serious injuries. This single vehicle crash occurred on the eastbound side of a four-lane, divided, interstate. There were two lanes for travel in each direction divided by a natural median. The crash site also included an entrance lane adjoining the eastbound lanes from the right (south). The south roadside profile consisted of a paved shoulder and a depressed dirt and gravel gore area, between the eastbound lanes and the adjoining entrance ramp. On the opposite side of the entrance ramp, a downward embankment gave way to the level sand terrain. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry, during the evening (dark-not lit), weekday crash. The case vehicle (2009 Toyota RAV4, 5-door utility vehicle) was traveling east in the number-one lane. The vehicle's first row lap and shoulder belts were pretensioner equipped. There were first row frontal-impact air bags, and left and right roof rail mounted rollover-air bags. There were two occupants in the case vehicle. The forty-one year old male driver was using the belt restraint while the forty-two year old female front right seat passenger (case subject) was not, based on the condition found. As the case vehicle traveled east, the driver allowed the vehicle to track off of the roadway to the right (south) at a shallow angle until it encountered the depressed gore area. Based on the scene evidence, the driver attempted to steer the vehicle across the gore and onto the adjacent entrance ramp. The vehicle climbed across the raised ramp and traveled off of the opposite side, listing to the left as it dropped approximately 2meters to the sandy terrain. The vehicle overturned a total of six quarter-turns to the left, coming to rest on its top facing southwest. The vehicle's left and right roof rail mounted rollover-air bags deployed. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage while the subject was transported to a trauma facility due to serious injuries.