This case involved the 21-year-old, male driver of a compact passenger car responding to a nine quarter-turn, right side leading rollover (trip) sequence. The subject was using the lap and shoulder belt. The vehicle was not equipped with side air bags and the frontal-impact air bags did not deploy. The non-horizontal direction of force impact to the top/left greenhouse area resulted in a 'severe' vehicle damage estimate while the subject received serious injuries. This single vehicle crash occurred on a three-lane trafficway traveling through a rural area. The curved north/south trafficway had two lanes for northbound travel and a single southbound lane separated by painted double yellow lines. For northbound travel there was a left curve and uphill grade. The right (east) roadside consisted of a narrow paved shoulder, a wide gravel/dirt shoulder and then level, natural terrain. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the nighttime (dark-not lit), weekday crash. The case vehicle (2006 Pontiac G6 GT, 2-door coupe) was traveling northbound in the right lane. The vehicle was equipped with first row, outboard, integrated-lap and shoulder belt seats, and frontal-impact air bags. The 21-year-old male driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint, based on the post-crash position it was found in. The subject was fatigued and allowed the vehicle to drift off of the right roadside and onto the level, natural terrain. The subject steered left in an effort to regain the roadway and the vehicle began a counterclockwise yaw. The vehicle tripped on its right wheels as it encountered drainage ditches along its trajectory. The vehicle landed first on its top left roof rail/A-pillar complex and continued overturning to the right for a total of nine quarter-turns, coming to rest on its right side facing southwest (back toward the roadway). The vehicle was towed due to disabling greenhouse and wheel damage. The driver (subject) was transported to a trauma facility due to serious injuries.