This case involved the improperly belted 49-year-old female driver of a passenger car responding to a far-side (right) impact with the front of a passenger van. The two-o'clock principal direction of force impact caused 'moderate' vehicle damage while the subject received serious injuries. The subject's frontal-impact hub mounted and lower left dash (knee bolster) mounted air bags deployed. This two-vehicle crash occurred on a multi-lane, divided, north/south street at a three-leg intersection traveling through a residential area. There were two lanes for travel in each direction with a left turn lane at the south approach for turning left onto the adjoining street. The trafficway was straight and level. The intersection was controlled by tri-color traffic signals at all corners. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the night time (dark-street lights), weekday crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2005 Toyota Scion tC, 2-door hatchback) was traveling southbound on its approach to the intersection intending to turn left. V1's first row lap and shoulder belts were pretensioner equipped. There were also first row frontal-impact air bags and a left lower dash mounted frontal-impact air bag. There were four occupants of V1. The 49-year-old female driver (case subject), 15-year-old female front right seat passenger, 15-year-old male second row left seat passenger and 15-year-old male second row right seat passenger were all using the belt restraints. The subject was wearing the shoulder portion of the belt under her left arm and across her chest. The opposing vehicle (V2, 1997 Chevrolet Astro Van) was traveling northbound in the number-one (right) lane on its approach to the intersection with the intention of traveling straight through. V1 began its left turn as both vehicles entered the intersection simultaneously. The front of V2 struck the right plane of V1, centered at the right front axle/wheel well. V1's frontal-impact air bags deployed. The impact rotated V1 counterclockwise, abruptly, approximately 180-degrees as V2 rotated clockwise. The vehicles struck a second time with V1's right rear against V2's left rear. V1was deflected back toward the north and then into the median where it came to rest facing northwest. V2 was deflected clockwise, to the right, where it came to rest at the northeast corner facing east. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. All four occupants of V1 were transported to various medical facilities due to varying degrees of injury. The subject was transported to a trauma facility due to a fractured pelvis.