This case involved a belted 16-year-old male second row-left seat occupant of a passenger car responding to a frontal impact into a tree. The twelve-o'clock principal direction of force impact caused 'severe' vehicle damage and resulted in serious injury to the subject. This single-vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane north/south residential roadway traveling through a wooded, hilly neighborhood. There was a single lane for travel in each direction separated by painted double yellow lines. The curving roadway had a slight elevation gain and tight right curve from south to north on the approach to the crash site. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the nighttime (dark-street lights) weekday crash. The Case Vehicle (2008 Volkswagen Rabbit, 3-door hatchback) was traveling northbound, had just come out of a left curve and approaching a right curve. The vehicle's front row lap and shoulder belts were pretensioner equipped. There were first row frontal-impact air bags, first row seat back mounted and left and right roof rail mounted (curtain) air bags. The sixteen-year-old male driver, sixteen-year-old front right seat passenger, sixteen-year-old second row left seat passenger (case subject) and the seventeen-year-old second row center seat passenger were all using the belt restraints. The sixteen-year-old second row right seat passenger was not using the belt restraint available for his position. The driver came out of a left curve and began to negotiate a sweeping right curve. The vehicle traveled left of the centerline and the driver steered right in an attempt to keep the roadway. Physical evidence indicates that the vehicle was in a clockwise yaw as it left the roadway and struck a eucalyptus tree with its front left. The vehicle's frontal-impact air bags deployed during the crash. The tree had a large lower root bundle that also made contact with its undercarriage, preventing the vehicle from rotating counterclockwise to final rest. The vehicle came to rest with its front against the tree facing north. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. All five occupants (including the second row-left, case subject) were transported to various trauma facilities due to sustaining serious injuries.