This case study involved the belted female driver of a passenger car responding to a frontal collision (twelve o'clock principal direction of force impact) with a sport utility vehicle. The subject's frontal-impact air bag deployed. The subject sustained serious torso and pelvic injury while the vehicle was 'severely' damaged. This three-vehicle crash occurred on a seven-lane, divided, east/west-street traveling through a suburban area. There were three lanes for travel in each direction and a left turn lane, divided by a raised curb median. The eastbound approach to the crash site was straight and had a slight uphill grade. The westbound approach had a left curve and a downhill grade. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the mid day, weekday crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2003 Honda Accord, 4-door sedan) was traveling eastbound in the number-three lane. V1's first row lap and shoulder belts were equipped with pretensioners and first row frontal-impact air bags. The thirty-three year old female driver (case subject/sole occupant) was determined to have been using the belt restraint. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2007 Chevrolet Aspen, 4-door utility vehicle) was traveling westbound in the number-three lane. The driver was the sole occupant in V2. The third vehicle involved (V3, 2004 Toyota Tacoma, pickup) was traveling eastbound in the number-two lane, some distance behind V1. There was a single occupant in V3. The driver of V1 was traveling eastbound, up the slight grade, in the number-three (inside) lane. V2 was traveling westbound, around the left curve, and downhill also in the inside lane. The driver of V2 was intending to merge into the left turn lane and make a left turn. During the merging maneuver the driver of V2 allowed the vehicle's front left wheel to strike the raised curb median, which caused the vehicle to rotate counterclockwise as the left tire snagged the curb. V2 continued across the median and into the path of V1 (opposite direction) where the front left of V1 struck the front right of V2. V1's frontal-impact air bags deployed. The damage to V1 indicates that V2 was partially airborne as the vehicles collided. The impact caused V1 to rotate counterclockwise (pivoting around its front left wheel) as V2 also rotated counterclockwise (but faster). V2 made contact along V1's left plane with its right, as though V2 might overturn onto V1. V2 came to rest facing east up against the median. During V1's counterclockwise rotation, its back end spun into the number-two lane, and into the path of V3. The right back of V1 struck the left plane of V3 as its driver attempted to steer away from the initial collision. V1 came to rest facing southwest in the eastbound lanes. After the second impact V3 began a counterclockwise yaw and came to rest in the eastbound lanes facing northwest. All three vehicles were towed from the scene due to disabling damage. Only the driver of V1 (case subject) was transported to a medical (trauma) facility, and that due to serious injuries.