The unrestrained 155 cm (5'1"), 61 kg (135 lb), 80-year-old female right-front passenger of the 2001 Chevrolet Monte Carlo 4-door sedan moved forward in response to the initial severe 11 o'clock impact. The 1-cm laceration to the top of the head and the underlying patchy subarachnoid hemorrhage are probably due to head contact with the rearview mirror. The abrasion below the left orbit, the 2-cm laceration to the bridge of the nose, the lacerations to the upper and lower lips and the nasal and maxillae fractures are probably due to contact with the top of the center instrument panel. The contusion over the sternum, the depressed fracture of the sternum at the 3rd rib, the pericardiac and cardiac lacerations, the complete transection of the aorta at the level of the diaphragm, the mid-line laceration of the liver with pulpification, the fractures of the 1st left posterior rib, the 2nd to 9th anterolateral left ribs, the 2nd to 6th anterior right ribs, 2nd to 9th anterolateral right ribs and the 1st to 9th posterior right ribs are due to contact with the protruding center instrument panel. The fracture/dislocation of the left wrist and the contusions of the left hand and wrist are due to contact with the center instrument panel. The contusion and abrasion of the right arm and fore arm are probably due to contact with the airbag. The displaced fracture of the pubic bone and the fracture of the distal left femur are probably due to contact with the right-lateral face of the protruding center instrument panel. The bladder rupture is probably due to cutting by the displaced pubis fracture. The lacerations and abrasions to the left knee are probably due to contact with the underside of the right instrument panel. The 15 cm contusion to the left leg and the contusion to the anterior distal thigh are due to contact with the right-lateral face of the protruding center instrument panel. The contusion to the right lower quadrant of the abdomen and the abrasions to the right knee are probably due to contact with the deployed air bag. The contusion to the right wrist and hand and the right knee are from an unknown source.



The case occupant died approximately three minutes after arriving in the trauma bay.