This case involved the unbelted 20-year-old female front right seat passenger of a passenger car responding to a 2 o'clock principal direction of force, near side (centered) impact with the front of a pickup. The subject sustained severe injury as a result of the 'severe' impact. This two-vehicle crash occurred at the three-way intersection of a six-lane, north/south, divided trafficway and a five-lane, east/west trafficway that adjoined from the east. The intersection was controlled by tri-color traffic signals on all corners. Southbound approach had two lanes for travel in each direction divided by a natural median and two designated left turn lanes. The trafficway curved, right for southbound, left for northbound traffic. The weather was cloudy but the bituminous roadway was dry. The case vehicle (V1, 2002 Ford Mustang, 2-door coupe) was traveling southbound on its approach to the intersection in the number-one (right) left turn lane, intending to turn left. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts (pretensioner) and first row frontal impact air bags. The 24-year-old male driver was using the belt restraint based on physical evidence. There was one additional passenger of V1, a front right seat 20-year-old female occupant (case subject) was not using the belt restraint, based on physical evidence. The opposing vehicle (V2, 1997 Ford F-150 pickup) was traveling northbound in the number-two lane (left), negotiating the left curve and intending to travel straight through. The driver of V1 approached the intersection and came to a stop. V1's driver then began to negotiate a left turn maneuver. The front of V2 struck the right side of V1 centered in the right door area. V2 sustained contact with the right side of V1 as it pushed it to the northeast corner. The vehicles came to rest still within contact, as the 'recovery hooks' on the front of V2 had become embedded in the subject's door. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The case subject (FR passenger V1) was transported to a trauma facility due to severe injuries. The driver of V1 was also transported and released from the facility. There were no injuries reported to the driver or occupants of V2.