This case involves the belted female driver of a minivan responding to a near-side, forward of occupant compartment, impact with a passenger car. The vehicle sustained moderate damage ('10 o'clock principal direction of force') resulting in serious injury to the subject. This two-vehicle crash occurred at the four-way intersection of a residential and a commercial street in an urban area. The east/west trafficway had seven lanes divided by a raised curb median. For westbound traffic there were three lanes for continued travel and a left turn lane pocket. The bituminous trafficway was straight and level. The north/south trafficway had three lanes separated by painted double yellow lines. For southbound traffic there was a single lane for continued straight and right turn travel, and a designated left turn lane. The southbound approach was bituminous, straight and had a downhill grade. The intersection was controlled by tri-color traffic signals. The case vehicle (V1, 2002 Pontiac Montana, 4-door passenger van) was traveling southbound, downhill, on its approach to the intersection with the intention of turning right. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts first row frontal-impact air bags and first row seat back mounted side-impact air bags. The 76-year-old female driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint. The opposing vehicle (V2, an unknown year Honda Accord) was traveling westbound on its approach to the intersection with the intention of travelling straight through. V1 had come to a stop and had then proceeded into the intersection. V2 entered the intersection simultaneously and the front of V2 struck the left plane of V1, forward of its A-pillar. The impact caused V1 to rotate clockwise approximately 60-degrees as it came to rest facing west in the center westbound lane. V2 was deflected to the left (SW) where it crossed the raised curb divider, the opposing lanes and ran off of the south edge of the trafficway where it struck a block wall and came to rest. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The subject was transported to a trauma facility due to serious head injury.