This case involves the belted male driver of a compact, hybrid, passenger car responding to a head-on, offset, collision with a large pickup. The 12 o'clock principle direction of force impact caused 'severe' vehicle damage, deployed the subject's frontal-impact air bag and resulted in severe injuries. This two-vehicle collision occurred on a divided, three-lane east, west trafficway traveling through a residential, suburban area. There were two lanes for travel in each direction divided by a painted median and a designated right turn lane for eastbound traffic. An intersection was located just east of the crash site. Along the south roadside, outside of the right turn lane, was a metal guardrail. The eastbound approach to the crash site was straight while the westbound approach had a left curve. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the mid-afternoon, weekday crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2007 Toyota Prius, 4-door sedan) was traveling eastbound. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts (first row pretensioners), first row frontal-impact air bags, seat back mounted first row side-impact air bags and roof rail mounted side-impact air bags. The 62-year-old male driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint as determined based on physical evidence. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2002 Dodge Ram 1500 pickup) was traveling westbound on its approach to the crash site, negotiating a left curve as it passed through an intersection. While negotiating the curve/intersection, the driver of V2 allowed the vehicle to travel into the on-coming eastbound lanes. The subject (V1 driver) observed V2 in his lane ahead and had begun to steer to the right in an attempt to avoid the approaching vehicle. The front left of V1 struck the front left of V2 in a head-on, extremely left-offset (corner) configuration. Physical evidence and vehicle dynamics suggest V2 was fully into the eastbound lane and was probably steering back to the westbound lane when the impact occurred. The impact caused the subject's steering wheel hub mounted frontal-impact air bag to deploy. V1's forward momentum was absolved as its rear wheels lifted up off of the ground. V1 was moved rearward as it rotated approximately 60-degrees; where its back plane, from the lower bumper (down), scraped over the adjacent guardrail. V1 came to rest across the guardrail with its front wheels on the roadway and its rear wheels elevated, facing north. At impact, V2 rotated counterclockwise as it stopped V1 and pushed it rearward. V2 came to rest in the eastbound lanes facing southeast. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The subject was transported to a trauma facility due to severe injuries.