This case involved the belted female driver of a compact passenger car responding to a near-side, centered impact with the front of an SUV. The 9 o'clock principal direction of force impact caused 'severe' vehicle damage, deployed the subject's seat back mounted and roof rail mounted side-impact air bags, and resulted in serious injury to the subject. This three-vehicle crash occurred at the four-way intersection of a multi-lane east/west trafficway and a north/south residential street. The northbound approach had a single lane for travel in each direction, a designated left turn lane, was straight and relatively level. The eastbound approach had three lanes for continued eastbound travel, a designated left turn lane, divided from the westbound lanes by a raised curb median, was straight and had an uphill grade. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadways dry. The Case Vehicle (V1, 2006 Toyota Prius, 5-door hatchback) was traveling northbound on its approach to the intersection with the intention of turning left. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts, first row frontal-impact air bags, first row seatback mounted side-impact air bags and roof rail mounted 'curtain' side-impact air bags. The 59-year-old female driver (case subject/sole occupant) was determined to have been using the belt restraint based on physical evidence. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2007 Toyota FJ Cruiser, 2-door SUV) was traveling eastbound in the number-one lane (right) on its approach to the intersection with the intention of traveling straight through. A third vehicle (V3, 2004 Honda CRV, 4-door SUV) was sitting stopped at the westbound approach in the number-two lane. V1 entered the intersection with the intention of turning left. The driver of V2 observed this and began to brake while steering left. This maneuver took V2 across the eastbound number-two lane and into the number-three lane where the front of V2 struck the left side of V1. The impact caused V1's side-impact air bags to deploy. V1 was deflected/pushed to the northeast. It rotated clockwise as the vehicles came apart and the right front of V1 struck the front left of V3 in a, minor, secondary impact to V1. V1 and V2 were tow due to disabling damage from the scene while V3 was not. The driver of V1 (case subject) was transported to a trauma facility due to serious injury.