This case involved the belted female driver of a compact car responding to a near-side impact with the front of another car. The subject's seat back mounted side-impact air bag deployed during the 9 o'clock principal direction of force impact resulting in serious injury to the subject and 'moderate' vehicle damage severity. This two-vehicle crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a four-lane, one-way northbound roadway, and at the intersection of a two-lane east/west roadway. There were two lanes for continued northbound travel, a designated left-turn lane and a designated right-turn lane. The intersection was controlled by tri-color traffic signals at the north, east and westbound approaches. The road was straight and level. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the mid-afternoon, weekday crash. The Case vehicle (V1, 2008 Suzuki Forenza 4-door sedan) was traveling northbound in the number-two lane (designated continued straight) on its approach to the intersection. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts, first row frontal-impact air bags and first row seat back mounted side-impact air bags. The 45-year-old female driver (case subject), 18-year-old female front right seat passenger and the 16-year-old male right rear seat passenger were all determined to have been using the belt restraints. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2003 Mitsubishi Galant, 4-door sedan) was traveling northbound in the number-three lane (designated continued straight) slightly to the rear and left of V1. The driver of V2 intended to travel straight through the intersection. As V1 neared the intersection, the driver determined to make a left turn at the last moment. The subject steered left abruptly across the adjacent lane and into the path of V2. The front of V2 struck the left side of V1 just forward of the B-pillar. V1's driver side side-impact air bag deployed. The 9 o'clock principal direction of force impact caused V1 to rotate counterclockwise approximately 180-degrees as it was deflected to the northwest, coming to rest facing northeast in the westbound lane of the intersecting roadway. V2, post-impact, continued northbound and came to rest on the left shoulder, facing north. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. The case subject (V1 driver) and V1's right rear passenger were transported from the scene to a trauma facility due to varying degrees of injury.