This case involves the belted 59-year-old female driver of a passenger car responding to a frontal impact with a disabled passenger car. The subject's frontal impact air bag deployed. The subject sustained serious pelvic injury in the 12 o'clock principal direction of force impact with a vehicle damage severity rating of 'moderate'. This crash occurred on the southbound side of a multi-lane, divided, north/south interstate traveling through an urban area. There were four lanes for southbound travel, divided by barrier from the northbound lanes. The straight trafficway had a grade decline for southbound traffic. The weather was clear and the concrete roadway dry during the early morning (dark-not lit) weekday crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2002 Chevrolet Cavalier, 2-door coupe) was traveling southbound in the number-four (left) lane. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row frontal impact air bags. The 59-year-old female driver (case subject/sole occupant) was determined to have been using the belt restraint. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2007 Mitsubishi Eclipse, 2-door coupe) was sitting, stopped, disabled due to a previous incident. V2 was facing northwest, diagonally, perpendicular to southbound traffic blocking half on the median shoulder and half of the number-four lane. As V1 proceeded southbound, a non-contact vehicle in front of her suddenly swerved right to the number-three lane, revealing to V1's driver (case subject) the disabled V2. The subject was unable to react and struck the right front of V2 with V1's front plane, offset left. V1's frontal impact air bags deployed. V1 moved V2 out of its way as it deflected to the left and rotated slightly counterclockwise. V1 came to rest in the median facing southeast, south of the point of impact. The impact rotated V2 counterclockwise where it struck the center divider and came to rest facing southwest. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. The case subject was transported to a trauma facility due to serious pelvic injury.