This case involved a belted, 50-year-old male driver of a passenger car responding to a two quarter-turn rollover sequence without the benefit of air bag deployment. The vehicle was moderately damaged and the subject seriously injured. This single-vehicle crash occurred on the westbound side of a multi-lane, divided, interstate. There were four lanes for travel in each direction divided by a concrete barrier. Along the north (right) roadside was a paved shoulder followed by an upward embankment. On the embankment was an exit sign mounted on two, square, wooden posts. The trafficway experienced a sag at the site of departure. The weather was rainy and the concrete roadway wet during the early morning (dark-not lit) crash. The case vehicle (2005 Ford Mustang, 2-door coupe) was traveling westbound in the number-three lane (2nd from left). The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts, first row frontal impact air bags and first row seat back mounted side impact air bags. The 50-year-old male driver (case subject/sole occupant) was determined to have been using the belt restraint. The subject was traveling straight when the vehicle traveled through a standing puddle of water causing the drive wheels to loose contact with the roadway surface. The vehicle began to sway and the subject steered the vehicle right in an effort to regain control. The vehicle's tires regained contact and the vehicle responded by changing course, diagonally, to the northwest. The vehicle exited the right (north) roadside where it began to mount the embankment. The subject steered the vehicle left in an effort to regain control The vehicle began to slide as it traveled up the embankment and struck an exit sign post with its right plane. The impact, and further driver input of possibly steering right again, at impact, caused the vehicle to rotate clockwise as it tripped on its left wheels and overturned two quarter-turns back down the embankment and back into the roadway where it came to rest on its top facing north. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage and the subject (driver) was transported to a trauma facility due to serious injury.