This case involves the belted male driver of a passenger car responding to a head-on impact with another passenger car. The, 12 o'clock principal direction of force, collision resulted in severe damage to the vehicle(s), deployed the case subject's frontal-impact air bag and caused serious injury to the subject. This two-vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane, north/south trafficway traveling through a coastal/residential area. There was a single lane for travel in each direction divided by a painted median. The trafficway was relatively straight with an ascending grade from south to north. The roadway was bordered by bike lanes on both sides, an upward embankment to the east and a guardrail to the west. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the afternoon, weekday crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2005 Ford Taurus, 4-door sedan) was traveling northbound on its approach to the crash site. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts, and first row frontal-impact air bags. The 28-year-old male driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2007 Mercedes Benz CLK550) was traveling southbound on its approach to the crash site. V1 had negotiated a right curve, crossed the median and traveled into the southbound lane. The driver of V2 observed this and began to slow and steered to the right of the travel lane. V1 had been fully into the southbound lane and the driver (subject) had begun to steer right in an effort to regain the northbound lane when the front of V1 struck the front of V2. V1's steering hub mounted frontal-impact air bag (drivers/subject) deployed. The frontal, off-set left impact caused V1 to rotate counterclockwise as it slid to final rest, north of the impact site, facing west. V2 was pushed rearward where its back plane struck the guardrail and came to rest facing east. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to disabling damage. The subject (V1 driver) was transported to a trauma facility due to serious injuries. The driver of V2 was pronounced fatal at the scene.