This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of three occupants in a single vehicle, multi-event crash to small trees and an embankment. The driver was a belted 36-year-old female with a deployed frontal airbag who sustained serious injuries. The second row left occupant was a 2-year-old male seated in a child seat who later succumbed to critical injuries. The second row right occupant was a 4-year-old female in a child seat who sustained critical injuries. There were no other occupants in the vehicle. The crash occurred during early morning hours in the dark on a dry road under clear skies. A 2008 Chrysler Town & Country minivan (V1) was traveling south on a one-way, three-lane interstate highway negotiating a left curve. The cement road was on a 3% downhill grade. V1 was traveling in the right lane when it crossed left across the other lanes of travel and departed the left side of the road. V1 traveled a significant distance of approximately 100 meters on the left roadside before entering the tree line. V1 struck an 18 cm diameter tree with its front center (Event 1) followed by a 25 cm diameter tree with its front right (Event 2). Both trees were knocked down by impact. V1 then continued down a short steep embankment and over a creek, striking the opposite side embankment with its front (Event 3). V1's remaining momentum carried it up the opposite side embankment where the undercarriage made contact to the embankment (Event 4). V1 came to rest and was towed due to damage. The 36-year-old female driver was belted at the time of the crash as evidenced by 25 cm of shoulder belt payout and loading of the latch plate and D-ring. The available retractor pretensioner was actuated and found in the payed-out position at inspection. The vehicle was not equipped with anchor or buckle pretensioners. The steering wheel hub and right top instrument panel airbags deployed at an unknown point in the crash sequence. The available curtain airbags did not deploy. No other airbags were installed. This occupant was transported to a hospital before being transferred to a trauma center for treatment of serious injuries. The 2-year-old male second row left occupant was restrained in a child seat. The LATCH anchors were used to secure the bottom of the child seat while the shoulder belt appeared to be used to secure the upper portion of the child seat. There were loading marks to the upper anchorage area of the integrated belt system in the vehicle seat. There were no pretensioners installed in this row. The available curtain airbags did not deploy. No other airbags were installed for this seating position. This occupant was transported to a hospital before being transferred to a trauma center for treatment of critical injuries, which later proved to be fatal. The 4-year-old female second row right occupant was restrained in a child seat. The LATCH anchors were used to secure the bottom of the child seat while the shoulder belt appeared to be used to secure the upper portion of the child seat. There were loading marks to the upper anchorage area of the integrated belt system in the vehicle seat. There were no pretensioners installed in this row. The available curtain airbags did not deploy. No other airbags were installed for this seating position. This occupant was transported to a hospital before being transferred to a trauma center for treatment of critical injuries.