This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 18 year old female front right passenger of a 2005 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of a right side impact with a large diameter tree (event 3). The case vehicle was also equipped with (seat back mounted) side impact air bags for the front outboard seating positions (non-deployed). Vehicle 1 was southbound on a two-lane rural roadway and proceeding straight on a positive grade. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. Vehicle 1 entered a left curve and subsequently departed the right (west) pavement edge in a counterclockwise rotation. Vehicle 1 traversed the grass shoulder and began to travel laterally as it approached a wooded area. Pre-impact travel down an embankment adjacent to the wooded area tipped the vehicle to the right (about its longitudinal axis). As Vehicle 1 entered the wooded area, the right front side surface impacted two small trees which resulted in minor damage (events 1 & 2). The right side surface impacted a large diameter tree, resulting in severe damage (event 3). At this point, vehicle rotation was reversed as it was deflected clockwise off the tree into the final impacts. The right side surface struck three additional small diameter trees (events 4-6), which resulted in minor (overlapping) damage. Vehicle 1 came to rest in the wooded area (off the west pavement edge) facing southwest. The unrestrained 18 year old female front right passenger of the 2005 Hyundai Elantra was seated in a reclined posture, with the seat track adjusted to a full rearward position. The police reported that the passenger was restrained; however, interior evidence indicated that the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt was not used. It should be noted that driver belt use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Impacts 1 & 2 (and 4-6) were minor in nature and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the occupant. At impact 3, the front right passenger initiated a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory to the right in response to the non-horizontal impact force and loaded the right front interior surface. Scuff marks and indentations were identified on the right front door panel, indicative of lower extremity/pelvic interaction. Scuff marks documented above the level of the armrest were indicative of upper extremity interaction. Scuff marks were also documented on the right B-pillar, as intrusion of this component deformed the right front seat back and cushion. Extensive vertical intrusion of the right front roof and windshield header was also found. The right headliner was abraded and scuffed, with the adjacent sunvisor detached from the stalk. Following the crash, the both occupants of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local trauma center. The restrained 18 year old male driver's treatment status was unknown. The front right passenger was admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.