This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 21 year old female front right passenger of a 2001 Nissan Sentra GXE sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a 1997 Ford F-150 4x4 pickup truck (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was southbound on a multi-lane divided state highway and negotiating a left curve. Vehicle 2 was reportedly stopped and facing east at an intersecting roadway. Eastbound traffic was controlled by stop signs. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 approached the 3-leg intersection and continued in a forward tracking mode (off the right pavement edge) into the west connector, across the path of Vehicle 2. As Vehicle 1 traversed the east/westbound lanes of the intersection, the front right area impacted the front left area of Vehicle 2 resulting in moderate damage (event 1). At this point, Vehicle 1 rotated sharply clockwise, struck a signpost (event 2), and began traveling laterally across the asphalt surface. The initial impact, in conjunction with the vehicle's subsequent lateral motion against the pavement, initiated a two quarter turn left side rollover resulting in moderate top damage (event 3). During the rollover, Vehicle 1 exited the paved surface into a roadside (concrete) drainage ditch. Vehicle 1 subsequently came to rest in the ditch (on its top) in the southwest sector of the intersection facing northwest. Vehicle 2 came to rest in close proximity to the initial point of impact (in the eastbound lane of the intersection) facing southeast. The unrestrained 21 year old female front right passenger of the 2001 Nissan Sentra GXE was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-forward track position. Although reported by police as the driver of the subject vehicle, physical evidence confirmed the female occupant was actually positioned in the front passenger seat. The lack of restraint usage was confirmed by the absence of loading evidence on the front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. In addition, the front restraints were locked in the stowed (not used) position. At impact 1, the front right passenger of Vehicle 1 initiated a forward and slightly lateral trajectory in response to the 1 o'clock impact force and loaded the glove compartment door and deployed front right passenger airbag. The glove compartment door was deformed and out of place. Interaction with the deployed front right passenger airbag was evidenced by the smudge mark and fabric transfer documented on the face of the membrane. During the rollover, the front right passenger (now out of position forward) initiated a lateral trajectory to the left in response to the non-horizontal impact force. The lower body loaded the forward console and center instrument panel area as the head struck the headliner. Contact evidence continued into the driver space during the subsequent quarter turn of the rollover as hair strands were identified on the left sunvisor and headliner. Following the crash, rescue personnel reported that the 18 year old male occupant removed the female occupant from the vehicle prior to arrival on scene. The 21 year old female occupant of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center with serious injuries and admitted for treatment. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.