This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 47 year old female driver of a 1998 Honda Accord EX 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of a frontal impact with a large diameter tree (event #3). Vehicle #1 was southbound on a two-lane rural roadway and negotiating a right curve. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. As the vehicle entered the right curve, it continued in a forward tracking mode and departed the left (east) pavement edge. Vehicle 1 encountered a steep vertical drop off (which pitched the front end slightly downward/to the left), and entered a wooded area. The frontal area made initial contact to some brush (event #1) resulting in minor damage. The front left area subsequently sideswiped a small diameter tree (event #2), which also resulted in minor damage. Engagement with the tree extended down the entire left side surface. Vehicle 1 continued in a southerly direction as the front center area impacted a large diameter tree (event #3) resulting in moderate damage. The geometry of the embankment resulted in an oblique damage pattern to the vehicle's front end structure. At this point, Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise and came to rest in close proximity to the final point of impact facing northwest. The 47 year old female driver of the 1998 Honda Accord was restrained by the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, and presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat track adjusted to a mid-to-forward position. The pre-impact vertical drop off into the wooded area and subsequent sideswipe to the small diameter tree suggested that the driver may have been out of position (forward) upon final impact with the large diameter tree. At impact with the large diameter tree (event #3), the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual belt, knee bolster, and deployed driver frontal airbag. Indentations and scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation noted to the aft reinforcment frame. Interaction with the deployed driver airbag was evidenced by the makeup transfers documented on the lower aspect on the membrane face. At this point, the driver loaded through the deployed driver airbag and deformed the upper and lower portions of the steering wheel rim. Column compression was identified (at the level of the toepan) along with column movement vertically upward and to the right. The symmetrical spider-web fracture patterns documented on the mid-portion of the left windshield indicated possible upper extremity contact. The scratch mark documented on the lower steering column cover panel (oriented laterally) was indicative of lower extremity engagement (knee/thigh) during post-impact clockwise vehicle rotation to final rest. Following the crash, driver was transported via ambulance to a local trauma center with serious injuries and admitted for treatment. The case vehicle was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.