This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 68 year old female driver of a 2006 Toyota Corolla Matrix 4-door hatchback. The case vehicle was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal airbag deployed as a result of an offset frontal impact with a large diameter tree (event #1). Vehicle 1 was traveling in a northwesterly direction on a two-lane rural roadway. It was dark (street not lighted), with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. Vehicle 1 entered a sharp left curve (west to southwest) and subsequently departed the right (north) pavement edge. The front right area impacted a large diameter tree (event #1) resulting in moderate damage. At this point, the vehicle rotated clockwise. The initial tree impact, combined with the post-impact rotation, initiated a 4-quarter turn left side rollover (event #2). The rollover event resulted in minor top damage. During the fourth quarter turn of the rollover, the left rear side surface struck an adjacent tree (event #3), which resulted in moderate, non-horizontal damage. Vehicle 1 re-bounded off the tree and reversed its rollover direction to the right. Vehicle 1 rolled to the right two additional quarter turns (a total of 6 quarter turns for the rollover sequence) and came to rest (on its roof) in close proximity to the final tree impact facing facing northwest. The restrained 68 year old driver of the 2006 Toyota Corolla Matrix was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat track adjusted to a mid-to-rear position. Restraint usage was confirmed by the fabric transfers and loading marks documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact #1, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, knee bolster, and deployed driver frontal airbag. An indentation and scuff mark were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation noted to the aft reinforcement frame. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the smudge mark and fabric transfer documented on the membrane face. Although no rim deformation was found, column compression measured 4 cm. At this point, the driver initiated a trajectory to the left in response to the rollover initiation (and impact #3). The head probably contacted the left roof side rail (adjacent to the B-pillar) as concentrated areas of hair strands were noted on this component. Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center with serious injuries and admitted for treatment. Rescue personnel reportedly found the driver restrained and hanging upside down (against the left front window). Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.