This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 57 year old female front right passenger of a 2003 Acura MDX 4-door sport utility vehicle. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an acute angle (near side) collision with a 2006 Jeep Grand Cherokee 4x4 sport utility vehicle (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was also equipped with seatback mounted side impact airbags for the front seating positions which did not deploy as a result of the crash. Vehicle 1 was northbound on the inboard lane of a four lane divided urban trafficway and attempting to turn left (west) at a 4-leg intersection. Vehicle 2 was southbound in the outboard lane also on approach to the 4-leg intersection. Movement through the intersection was controlled by stop signs for east/westbound traffic. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 entered the intersection and attempted to turn left (west), across the path of Vehicle 2. The police reported that a southbound non-contact vehicle stopped on the inboard lane (also attempting to turn left) may have obstructed Vehicle 1's view of opposing traffic. As Vehicle 1 crossed the southbound lanes, the right front side surface was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2 resulting in moderate damage (event 1). At this point, Vehicle 1 rotated sharply counterclockwise as the right rear side surface struck ("sideslapped") the left side surface of Vehicle 2. This secondary impact resulted in minor damage to Vehicle 1. Vehicle 2 came to rest in close proximity to the initial point of impact facing southwest. The initial impact re-directed Vehicle 1 towards the southwest sector of the intersection, and across the path of Vehicle 3. Vehicle 3, a 2000 Mercedes-Benz ML430 4-door sport utility, was stationary and facing east in the west sector of the intersection. As Vehicle 1 entered the southwest sector of the intersection, the front left area impacted the left front side surface of Vehicle 3 resulting in minor damage (event 3). Vehicle 1 came to rest in the eastbound lanes (southwest sector) of the intersection facing southwest. Vehicle 3 came to rest in close proximity to the point of impact facing east. The restrained 57 year old female front right passenger of the 2003 Acura MDX (Vehicle 1) was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint usage was confirmed by the loading evidence documented on the front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact 1, the front right passenger initiated a lateral and slightly forward trajectory in response to the 2 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, B-pillar, and right front door interior surface. Scratch marks were identified on the right mid B-pillar, along with scuffs and abraded fabric to the adjacent roof side rail area. Heavy scuff marks and indentations were found on the right front door interior surface and armrest. These contact points were attributed to the passenger's right pelvic and torso regions. A pronounced indentation and fractured panel were also noted on the lower aspect of the right front door interior surface, and attributed to the passenger's right lower extremity. The secondary impact ("sideslap") with Vehicle 2 was minor in nature and probably produced little if no occupant kinematic response from the passenger. Upon impact with Vehicle 3, the front right passenger was out-of-position, and initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force. Makeup transfers documented on the left upper quadrant of the passenger airbag face were probably associated with the kinematic response (into a deflated airbag membrane) from the final impact with Vehicle 3. Following the crash, the front right passenger of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center with serious injuries and admitted for treatment. The restrained 60 year old male driver of Vehicle 1 was reported by police as uninjured. At the request of the family, the front right passenger was transferred to another trauma center (out of state) for further treatment. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage as Vehicle 3 was driven from the scene.