This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 23-year-old male driver, and restrained 18-year-old female front right passenger, of a 2004 Honda Civic EX coupe. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions (non-deployed). Vehicle 1 was southbound on a two-lane rural roadway and negotiating a right curve. It was dark (street not lighted), with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. Vehicle 1 exited the curve and entered the straightaway in a slight clockwise yaw. Driver steering maneuvers re-directed the vehicle towards the left (east) pavement edge in a counterclockwise rotation. Vehicle 1 subsequently departed the east pavement edge, and entered a drainage ditch encompassed by a rock retaining wall. As Vehicle 1 exited the east pavement edge, the right side surface impacted a signpost resulting in minor damage (event 1). At this point, the ditch slope tipped the vehicle to the right as it continued into a culvert area. The right side surface struck a bush, resulting in minor damage (event 2). The right side surface impacted a concrete culvert, which resulted in moderate non-horizontal damage (event 3). The culvert impact initiated a 2-quarter turn right side rollover ("bounce-over"), resulting in moderate top damage (event 4). Vehicle 1 came to rest on its top off the east pavement edge of the roadway (in a private driveway) facing northeast. The unrestrained 23-year-old male driver of the 2004 Honda Civic EX was presumed to be seated in a slightly reclined posture with the seat adjusted to a full rearward track position. The police reported that the driver was unrestrained, which was confirmed by the concentration of contacts identified across the front occupant space. Impacts 1 & 2 were minor in nature, and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the driver. At impact 3, the driver initiated a lateral trajectory to the right in response to the non-horizontal impact force and loaded the center console and front right seatback. Scuff marks were documented on the left aspect of the console, which was also deformed to the right. The gearshift was also deformed to the right; however, no distinct contact marks (e.g. scuff/scratch marks) were noted. The inboard taper of the front right seatback was deformed and the component fabric abraded. During the rollover, the driver kinematic continued into the adjacent roof area. A localized scuff mark, hair strands, and abraded fabric were identified along the headliner just above the console area. This physical evidence along the roof area was attributed to driver head contact. The restrained 18-year-old female front right passenger of the 2004 Honda Civic EX was presumed to be seated in a slightly reclined posture with the seat adjusted to a full rearward track position. Restraint use was confirmed by the loading evidence identified on the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Impacts 1 & 2 were minor in nature and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the passenger. At impact 3, the passenger initiated a lateral trajectory to the right in response to the non-horizontal impact force and loaded the right side interior surface. Scuff marks, indentations, and panel fractures were documented on the right door. Passenger loading of right side components may have been compounded by the (unrestrained) driver kinematic into the front right occupant space. During the rollover, the passenger kinematic continued into the adjacent roof side rail area. Abraded fabric and hair strands were embedded into the contact site, and attributed to passenger head contact. Blood pooling along this component was also indicative of passenger final rest position in this immediate area. Following the crash, both occupants of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local trauma center with serious injuries and admitted for treatment. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.