This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 66 year old female front right passenger of a 2003 Honda Accord sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions, front side impact airbags (seat back mounted), and side curtain airbags for the outboard seating positions. The left side impact airbag and curtain airbag deployed as a result of a left side impact with a large diameter tree (event 1). Vehicle 1 was northbound on a four-lane divided interstate highway and proceeding straight in the outboard travel lane. It was daylight, with rainy weather conditions as the road was wet. The police reported standing water in the roadway (just south of the crash site). Vehicle 1 was traveling downhill and entered a sag in the roadway. Vehicle 1 broke traction on the wet pavement and began to rotate clockwise toward the right (east) pavement edge of the road. Vehicle 1 departed the east pavement edge and traversed the grass shoulder into a gulley. The downslope of the drainage area (embankment) tipped the vehicle slightly to the left as it entered a wooded area. As Vehicle 1 entered the wooded area, the left front side surface struck a large diameter tree resulting in moderate, non-horizontal damage (event 1). This initial impact compounded the clockwise rotation into subsequent impact events. Vehicle 1 continued in a northeasterly direction and leveled off on approach to a cluster of trees. The left passenger area impacted a "split tree bole" (i.e. two or more trunks growing out of the same base), which resulted in moderately severe damage (event 2). At this point, the left rear side surface contacted an adjacent (free standing) tree resulting in minor damage (event 3). Vehicle 1 came to rest against the split tree bole (off the east pavement edge of the roadway) facing southeast. The restrained 66 year old female front right passenger of the 2003 Honda Accord was seated in a reclined posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. The police reported that the front right occupant was restrained by the available front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, which was confirmed during the CIREN occupant interview. At impact 1, the front right passenger initiated a lateral trajectory to the left in response to the impact force. At impact, 2, the out-of-position occupant initiated a lateral (and slightly rearward) trajectory to the left in response to the 9 o'clock impact force. The reclined position of the right front seatback allowed for excessive movement of the passenger's upper torso into the left rear occupant space. This trajectory was evidenced by the scuff marks identified on the right aspect of the driver seatback, and displacement of the center console armrest. The front right passenger subsequently loaded the deployed left rear curtain airbag as evidenced by the hair strands, smudge marks, and skin tissue documented on the inboard surface of the membrane. It was the Investigator's opinion that the front right passenger may have loaded through a deflated curtain membrane, which probably deployed during the preceding event. The third (and final) impact was minor in nature and produced little if no kinematic response from the passenger. Following the crash, both occupants of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local trauma center for treatment. The restrained 70 year old male driver was treated and released as the front right passenger was admitted for treatment of serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.