This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 47 year old female driver of a 2007 Saturn Ion 4-door sedan (Vehicle 1). Vehicle 1 was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions (non-deployed). This investigation also focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 17 year old male front right passenger of a 2007 Honda Civic Si coupe (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 2 was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions, (front) side impact airbags, and curtain airbags for the outboard seating positions. Vehicle 2's frontal airbag system deployed as a result of an oblique angle collision with Vehicle 1 (event 1). Vehicle 2's left side impact airbag and curtain airbag deployed as a result of a left side collision with two U-channel signposts, which supported a highway sign (event 2). Vehicle 2's right side impact airbag and curtain airbag deployed as a result of a (non-horizontal) sign impact to the roof structure (event 3). Vehicle 2 was southbound on a 4-lane divided state highway on approach to an intersecting subdivision entrance. Vehicle 1 was eastbound on the intersecting roadway and attempting to turn left (north) at the junction crossover. It was dark (street lighted for V1 by overhead lamps), with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by a stop sign for eastbound vehicles. As Vehicle 1 crossed the southbound lanes, the left front side surface was impacted by the front right area of Vehicle 2 resulting in moderate damage to both vehicles (event 1). At this point, both vehicles rotated clockwise and began their respective post-impact trajectories into the southeast sector of the intersection. Vehicle 1 came to rest straddling the median and (inboard) southbound lanes facing northwest. Vehicle 2 continued its post-impact trajectory into the center (grass) median area. As Vehicle 2 entered the center median, the left rear side surface impacted (two) U-channel posts supporting a highway divider sign (event 2). This secondary impact resulted in moderate damage. The highway sign subsequently struck the roof and backlight area (non-horizontal) resulting in moderate top damage (event 3). Vehicle 2 continued its clockwise rotation to final rest straddling the median and (inboard) northbound lanes facing northwest. The restrained 47 year old female driver of the 2007 Saturn Ion (Vehicle 1) was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid track position. Restraint usage was confirmed by the loading evidence documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact with Vehicle 2, the driver initiated a lateral and slightly forward trajectory in response to the 10 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint and left side interior surface. Scuff marks were identified on the armrest and surrounding door panel area. The manual window crank lever and lower door panel (near the speaker mount) were fractured. A smudge mark was documented on the mid B-pillar. Probable loading of the driver seatback and head restraint by rear seated occupants (extremity contact and/or loose child safety seats) was evidenced by the forward displacement and indentations identified on the aft portion of these components. The restrained 17 year old male front right passenger of the 2007 Honda Civic (Vehicle 2) was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat track adjusted to full rearward position. Restraint usage was confirmed by the extensive loading evidence documented on the passenger 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact with Vehicle 1, the passenger initiated a forward (and slightly lateral) trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, glove compartment door, and deployed front right passenger airbag. The glove compartment door was deformed and out of place. Interaction with the deployed front right passenger airbag was evidenced by the fabric transfer and smudge mark identified on the membrane face. At this point, the front right passenger of Vehicle 2 re-bounded into the seatback and was re-directed to the left in response to post-impact clockwise vehicle rotation. Passenger rebound into the seatback was evidenced by the rearward deformation documented on this component. At impact with the signposts (event 2), the front right passenger struck the center console and gearshift lever. This kinematic pattern was confirmed by the fractured console panels and adjacent components noted to be deformed to the left. This signpost impact deployed the Vehicle 2's left side impact airbag and curtain airbag. As the posts supporting the sign were uprooted, the sign impacted the backlight, header, and (right) roof side rail areas (event 3). This non-horizontal sign impact deployed Vehicle 2's right side impact airbag and curtain airbag. A faint scuff mark was identified on the deployed right side curtain airbag. Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 and front right passenger of Vehicle 2 were transported to a local trauma center with serious injuries and admitted for treatment. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.