This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 88 year old male driver of a 2004 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal airbag deployed as a result of a collision with a large diameter tree (event 3). Vehicle 1 was northbound on a two lane residential roadway and negotiating a left curve. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. Vehicle 1 reached the apex of the curve and departed the right (east) pavement edge in a forward tracking mode. As Vehicle 1 departed the east pavement edge, the right front side surface sideswiped a post supporting a street sign (event 1). This initial impact resulted in minor damage. Vehicle 1 continued in a northeasterly direction and traversed a connecting roadway. Vehicle 1 subsequently exited the north pavement edge of the connector as the front right area sideswiped a U-channel post supporting a stop sign (event 2). This secondary impact also resulted in minor damage. Vehicle 1 entered a wooded area as the frontal area impacted a large diameter tree (event 3) resulting in severe damage. Upon impact with the tree, Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise and came to rest alongside the north/south roadway facing southeast. The restrained 88 year old male driver of the 2004 Toyota Camry was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint usage was confirmed by the loading evidence documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. The first and second impacts were minor in nature and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the driver. At impact with the tree (event 3), the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, knee bolster, and deployed driver frontal airbag. Heavy scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation noted to the aft reinforcement frame. A distinct scuff mark was also identified on the steering column (no column compression found), as the adjustment lever was bent upward. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the smudge marks documented on the face of the membrane. Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center with serious injuries and admitted for treatment. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.