This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 60 year old female driver of a 2002 Chevrolet S-10 extended cab 4x2 pickup truck. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an acute angle collision with a 1998 Freightliner truck (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was facing south exiting a parking lot and attempting to turn left (east) onto the adjacent two lane rural roadway. Vehicle 2 was westbound and proceeding straight. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. It should be noted that Vehicle 2 was a rescue vehicle responding to an emergency call with its lights and siren activated. As Vehicle 1 crossed the westbound lane of the rural roadway to turn left (east), the left rear side surface was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2 resulting in moderate damage. At this point, Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest straddling the south pavement edge of the roadway facing southeast. Vehicle 2 came to rest in the eastbound lane facing west. The restrained 60 year old female driver of the 2002 Chevrolet S-10 pickup truck was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat track adjusted to a mid-to-rear position. Restraint usage was confirmed by the loading evidence documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver initiated a forward (and lateral) trajectory in response to the 10 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, knee bolster, and deployed driver frontal airbag. Scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the makeup transfers documented on the face of the membrane. Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center with serious injuries and admitted for treatment. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage, and Vehicle 2 was driven from the scene.