This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 45 year old female driver of a 1997 Mitsubishi Galant DE 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an oblique angle impact with a 1999 Chrysler Cirrus 4-door sedan (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was initially stationary and facing north in the south sector of a 4-leg intersection. Vehicle 2 was eastbound on the inboard travel lane of a multi-lane divided state highway, approaching the same intersection. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by stop signs for north/southbound vehicles. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 entered the crossover junction in an attempt to proceed straight (north) through the intersection, across the path of Vehicle 2. As both vehicles entered the intersection, the left side surface of Vehicle 1 was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2 resulting in moderate damage. Both vehicles came to rest in close proximity to the point of impact in the roadway. Vehicle 1 came to rest facing northwest, and Vehicle 2 came to rest facing northeast. The restrained 45 year old female driver of the 1997 Mitsubishi Galant was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-forward track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the fabric transfers and loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver initiated a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 9 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint and left side interior surface. The armrest was broken off, as indentations and scuff marks were identified on the door panel below the level of this component. Evidence documented on the left front door panel was attributed to left pelvic and lower extremity contact. Compression of the driver seatback was attributed to intrusion of the left B-pillar. Following the crash, all three occupants of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local trauma center. The driver was admitted for treatment of serious injuries, as the treatment status of the child passengers was unknown. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.