This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 43 year old female driver of a 2003 Ford Focus LX 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which did not deploy as a result of this crash. Vehicle 1 was southbound on a two lane rural roadway and negotiating an "S" curve in dry/daylight conditions. While negotiating a right curve, the driver allowed Vehicle 1 to cross the centerline into the northbound lane. Driver steering input re-directed the vehicle back towards the right (west) pavement edge in a counterclockwise rotation. Vehicle 1 subsequently departed the right (west) pavement edge onto the soft shoulder as the right rear side surface struck a mailbox (event 1). This initial impact resulted in minor damage. Vehicle 1 encountered a steep drop off as the vehicle's center of gravity was tipped outboard of its wheels. This initiated a 1 quarter turn right side rollover ("fallover") resulting in minor damage (event 2). At this point, the top surface impacted a utility pole (event 3) which resulted in severe roof damage across the front occupant space. Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest against the final point of impact (on its right side) facing northeast. The restrained 43 year old female driver of the 2003 Ford Focus LX was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat track adjusted to a mid-to-rear position. Restraint usage was confirmed by the loading evidence documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. It should be noted the driver reported that she relinquished control of the vehicle (took hands off steering wheel) prior to the first impact. During the rollover, the driver initiated a trajectory to the right and loaded the right front seatback and head restraint. This trajectory was evidenced by the deformation and hair strands identified on these components. At impact with the utility pole, the (out of position) driver struck the roof as evidenced by the fabric abrasions and hair strands noted on the headliner. The driver came to rest with the upper torso against the right front seatback and B-pillar, evidenced the extensive blood pooling found in this area. Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center with serious injuries and admitted for treatment. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.