This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 44 year old male front right passenger of a 2004 Chevrolet Aveo 4-door hatchback. This case vehicle (identified as Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an oblique angle impact with a 2004 Toyota Corolla CE 4-door sedan (Vehicle 2). This investigation also focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 65 year old female driver of a 2004 Toyota Corolla CE 4-door sedan. This case vehicle (identified as Vehicle 2) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an oblique angle impact with a 2004 Chevrolet Aveo 4-door hatchback (Vehicle 1). Vehicle 1 was northbound on a two-lane rural roadway and proceeding straight. Vehicle 3, a 1999 Mitsubishi 3000 GT 2-door hatchback, was also northbound traveling ahead of Vehicle 1. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. Vehicle 2 was southbound and crossed the centerline, into the path of Vehicle 3. Upon recognition of the impending harmful event, the driver of Vehicle 3 braked in avoidance. As Vehicle 2 entered the northbound lane, the front left area impacted the left side surface of Vehicle 3 resulting in moderate damage (event 1). The narrow engagement continued down the left side surface of Vehicle 2, as maximum engagement occurred at the left front wheel. This initiated a counterclockwise rotation as both vehicles began their respective post-impact trajectories towards the east shoulder of the roadway. Vehicle 3 was re-directed to the northeast and subsequently entered a private yard, struck a culvert (event 2), and came to rest facing southwest. Vehicle 2 was re-directed to the southeast, and across the path of Vehicle 1. Upon recognition of the impending harmful event, the driver of Vehicle 1 braked and steered right in avoidance. Vehicle 1 partially exited the right (east) pavement edge prior to the collision. The frontal area of Vehicle 1 impacted the right front side surface of Vehicle 2 (event 3). Impact resulted in moderate damage to both vehicles. At this point, Vehicle 2 rotated sharply counterclockwise as the right rear side surface struck (i.e. "side slapped") the left passenger area of Vehicle 1. This impact (event 4) resulted in moderate damage to both vehicles. Both vehicles came to rest in a private yard off the east pavement edge of the roadway facing northeast. The unrestrained 44 year old male front right passenger of the 2004 Chevrolet Aveo (Vehicle 1) was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat track adjusted to a full rearward position. The lack of restraint use was evidenced by the extent of contacts across the front occupant space, relative to the absence of loading marks on the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. In addition, the passenger restraint was found restricted in the retracted (stowed) position by retractor pretensioner deployment. At impact (event #3), the front right passenger initiated a forward (and slightly lateral) trajectory in response to the 11 o'clock impact force and loaded the right instrument panel and deployed front right passenger air bag. A large indentation was identified on the right mid instrument panel, which continued vertically downward into the glove compartment door. Scuff and scratch marks also surrounded the contact site. Interaction with the deployed front right passenger air bag was evidenced by the scuff and smudge marks documented across the face of the membrane. Small dicing abrasions were noted along the mid-section of the deployed air bag, indicative of possible jewelry worn by the passenger. A localized fracture was identified at the upper right windshield, with the adjacent rear-view mirror found damaged. The subsequent sideslap impact re-directed the (out-of-position) occupant kinematic trajectory to the left, in response to the 9 o'clock impact force. The restrained 65 year old female driver of the 2004 Toyota Corolla (Vehicle 2) was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat track adjusted to a mid-to-rear position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks and fabric transfers documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. In addition, the driver restraint was found to be restricted in the used (out) position by retractor pretensioner deployment. At impact #1 (event #1), the driver initiated a forward (and slightly lateral) trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, left front door interior surface, and deployed driver frontal air bag. Pronounced scratch marks were identified on the left front door armrest. The fabric above the armrest was found abraded and scuffed. These contacts documented on the left front door panel were attributed to upper extremity loading. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the scuff and smudge marks identified across the face of the membrane. At impact with Vehicle 1 (event #3), the out-of-position driver initiated a forward and lateral trajectory in response to the 2 o'clock impact force and loaded the center console. The console armrest was deformed to the right, as scuff marks documented along the forward/lower console were attributed to lower extremity contact. Following the crash, both occupants of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local trauma center. The front right passenger of Vehicle 1 was admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. The restrained 40 year old female driver's treatment status was unknown. The driver of Vehicle 2 was also transported to a local trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. The restrained 16 year old male driver of Vehicle 3 was reported by police as uninjured in the crash. All three vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.