This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 53 year old male front right passenger of a 2006 Chevrolet Impala LT sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions, and side curtain airbags for the outboard seating positions. The case vehicle sustained moderate roof damage as a result of a 4-quarter turn left side rollover ("tripover"). No airbags deployed as a result of this crash. Vehicle 1 was eastbound on a two lane rural roadway and proceeding straight. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. The driver allowed Vehicle 1 to depart the right (south) pavement edge in a clockwise rotation. As Vehicle 1 exited the south pavement edge, it entered an open field. The vehicle began to travel laterally as the left side wheels began digging into the soft soil. This tripping mechanism initiated a 4-quarter turn left side rollover ("tripover") resulting in moderate top damage. Vehicle 1 was reported by police to have come to rest upright (off the south pavement edge) facing southwest. The 53 year old male front right passenger of the 2006 Chevrolet Impala was unrestrained with the seat track adjusted to a full forward position. The lack of restraint use was confirmed by the absence of loading evidence on the front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, relative to the concentration of occupant contacts documented within the driver space. During the initial roll moment, the front right passenger began a trajectory towards the left as the vehicle's center of gravity was tipped outboard of its wheels. At impact with the ground (quarter turns 1 and 2), the passenger struck the steering wheel rim as evidenced by the extensive deformation identified on this component. Passenger loading of the steering assembly continued during subsequent rollover quarter turns to vehicle final rest. This occupant trajectory was evidenced by the (lateral and downward) separation of the steering wheel rim from the steering column, and associated column detachment from the instrument panel (no column compression found). In addition, a dark fabric transfer was documented on the left roof side rail (just aft of the A-pillar junction), and possibly attributed to passenger clothing. It should be noted that the driver was reported by police as restrained by the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, which was confirmed during the vehicle interior inspection. The vehicle's Event Data Recorder (EDR) logged the driver's belt switch status as "buckled", and the passenger belt switch as "unbuckled". Following the crash, the 40 year old female driver and front right passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local trauma center. The driver was released and reportedly uninjured. The front right passenger was admitted for treatment of serious injuries. The case vehicle was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.