This crash occurred at night with street lights in the area and clear, dry conditions. Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Ford Mustang 2 door coupe, was eastbound in lane one of two one way, divided freeway lanes. The posted speed limit was 60 mph/97 kmph. The driver of V1 was negotiating a curve left in the roadway that also had a slight downgrade. V1 lost control and began to rotate clockwise on the roadway and then departed the roadway to the right into a ditch with soft mud. The left side back of V1 impacted the end of the steel guard rail as the front tires and front end gouged into the soft mud of the ditch and embankment. V1 then began to laterally roll left but first contacted some shrubs to the left side. It was estimated V1 rolled eight quarter turns into the wooded area off road and then became up right and continued forward before dropping down a 60 feet/18 meters cliff. The front of V1 contacted some more shrubs during this fall forward and the front of V1 impacted the ground leaving a large gouge into the ground from the front bumper and this impact created an upshift to the front frame rails. V1 then flipped end over end and flat on its roof on to a roadway underpass causing significant intrusion to the roof. The driver and the front right passenger were the only occupants in V1 and both are case subjects. The driver is 18 year old male who was wearing the lap and shoulder safety belt and the frontal airbag appeared to deploy during drop down the embankment with a frontal impact to the ground. The driver seat was deformed rearward with intrusion off the roof into this position with roof side rail compressed into the head restraint. It appears the initial lateral and rearward impact events put this driver out of position during the final roll over event. This driver was transported to the trauma center. The front right passenger is a 17 year old male who was wearing the lap and shoulder belt and the frontal airbag appeared to have deployed on the frontal impact to the ground. This case occupant had deformed the seatback rearward during the initial impact events and appeared that he was out of position during the first lateral roll over including the final impacts to the front end and to the top plane. Significant intrusion occurred in his position and over the second seat row was a large head contact with blood and hair confirmed this occupant was out of position when he contacted his head. The safety belt has some loading suggesting the lap belt portion was still secure but the upper body and head were out of position from the seatback deformity and appear to come out of the shoulder belt portion. This case occupant was also transported to the trauma center. V1 was disabled and towed.