This crash occurred on a six-lane freeway divided by a grassy median with a guard cable wire down the center. The speed limit is posted at 70 mph/113kmph and the weather was clear with dry roadway conditions. Vehicle two (V2), a Ford F-Series, large pickup truck, was pulling a fifth wheel camper trailor southbound in an unknown lane. Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Toyota Prius four door hatchback, is the case vehicle and traveling northbound in lane two. Vehicle three (V3), an unknown Ford passenger vehicle, was traveling behind V1 in the same lane. V2 for unknown reason began to leave the roadway to the left and entered the grass median rotating clockwise with the trailer slightly angled to the left. The left side of V2 impacted the guard cable wire in the median and then entered the northbound lanes. V2 was rotated clockwise in a jack knife position with the camper trailer when V1's front left corner hit the left side back quarter panel of V2. The tailgate of V2 detached and impacted the front left corner of the camper trailer during this continuous impact. Due to the height of V2's side quarter panel and rear overhang, V1 damage was at and mainly above V1's bumper and swiped down the left side fender area and over the hood up into the windshield and left roof and roof pillars. V2's left rear tire continued to swipe down the left side of V1 to just rear of the V1's left rear tire. V1 departed from V2 and began to roll over right eight quarter turns on the roadway and came to final rest upright in lane one facing west. V2 continued to slide laterally and impacted the left side of the trailer into the front of V3 that was traveling directly behind V1. V2 and the camper trailer rolled over to the left side on the roadway and V3 rotated counterclockwise and also rolled over four quarter turns on the roadway and came to rest upright partially on the right shoulder facing west. All vehicles were towed and disabled. Case occupant was the driver of case V1, a 19 year old male, who was wearing a lap/shoulder belt with pretensioners firing on impact along with a frontal airbag deployment. Others occupants in the case vehicle included an 87 year old male in the front right seat who was lap/shoulder belt restrained with the pretensioners firing and a frontal airbag deployment and had minor injuries, plus a 60 year old male who was wearing a lap/shoulder belt in the back right seat and also had minor injuries. The case vehicle was equipped with a roof side rail and seatback airbags that did not deploy on either side of the vehicle. The case occupant was first transported to a local hospital before being transferred to the trauma center.