This case occupant is a 28 year old pregnant (1st trimester) female front row right side passenger, not wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, with a frontal air bag deployment who was involved in a moderate frontal crash, followed by a secondary minor frontal impact. She sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred during the early morning pre-dawn hours on a two lane, two way north-south roadway with parking lanes present on both sides of the street. In the area where the crash occurred, the southbound asphalt travel lane has a downhill grade and curves to the left. At the time of the crash it was dark with overhead street lights, the roadway was wet, and there were clear weather conditions. Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Hyundai Elantra four door sedan, was traveling south in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1992 BMW 525i four door station wagon, was legally parked and unoccupied in the west parking lane. Vehicle three, (V3), a 1993 Chevrolet Corvette two door coupe, was legally parked and unoccupied in a private driveway adjacent to the west side of the roadway, just south of V2's location. Vehicle four (V4), a 2005 Toyota Camry four door sedan, was legally parked and unoccupied in the west parking lane, just south of the driveway where V3 was located. As the driver of V1 negotiated the curve in the roadway, V1 began to move out of its travel lane to the right and the front of V1 impacted the back of V2, resulting in the deployment of V1's frontal air bags. V1 underrode V2's back end and pushed V2 in a southerly direction, causing the front of V2 to strike the back of V4. V2 and V4 both came to final rest south of the driveway, still in the parking lane, facing south. After striking V2, V1 traveled over the west curb and departed the roadway to the right. V1 traveled across the private driveway and the front of V1 impacted V3's rear bumper, resulting in minor damage to both vehicles. V3 rotated slightly clockwise and came to final rest angled in the driveway, facing northwest. V1 came to final rest in the driveway, facing southwest. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. The case occupant in V1 is a 28 year old pregnant (1st trimester) female seated in the front row right position who was not belted. The instrument panel mounted frontal air bag deployed during the crash. She sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center where she was hospitalized. The driver, seated in the front left seat, was a 26 year old male who was not wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His steering column mounted frontal air bag deployed. He sustained minor injuries and did not receive any medical treatment.