This case occupant is a 39 year old female driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, who was involved in a moderate rollover crash with additional impacts. Her seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and her frontal impact air bag deployed. She sustained serious injuries. This single vehicle crash occurred during evening hours, under clear weather conditions on a dry roadway, in darkness. Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Pontiac Vibe four door hatchback, was southbound in lane one of a two lane, two way state highway. In the area where the crash occurred, the level asphalt travel lanes are straight for a distance, then curve to the left. The lanes are bordered by narrow paved shoulders with a grassy/gravel shoulder on the west side with a dirt embankment. V1 was southbound and entered the left curve but continued straight and departed the roadway to the right. As V1's right tires traveled off the roadway, V1's front right impacted a reflective road marker, resulting in minor damage to the bumper cover and hood. V1 continued traveling further off the roadway until V1's front undercarriage impacted an uphill section of the embankment, resulting in the actuation of the driver's seat belt retractor pretensioner and deployment of the driver's frontal impact air bag. V1 climbed up the embankment, rotating clockwise, and began to rollover to the left. V1 completed three quarter turns before the undercarriage (front axle area) impacted a wood light pole, shearing it from its base and resulting in moderate vehicle damage. The impact caused V1 to pivot around 180 degrees clockwise and then V1's back left bumper corner impacted the ground, resulting in minor damage. V1 continued to rotate clockwise before coming to final rest on its tires, facing southwest with its front end off the roadway and its back end on the west shoulder. V1 was towed due to damage. The case occupant is the driver of V1, a 39 year old female, who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. The steering column mounted air bag deployed and the front left seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated during the crash. This driver sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center for treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle.