This case occupant is a 31 year old unrestrained male driver with frontal and side impact air bag deployments involved in a frontal impact with a subsequent rollover who sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred during daylight hours with clear weather conditions and dry travel lanes. Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Hyundai Tiburon two door hatchback was northbound on a divided interstate freeway. In the area where the crash occurred, there are six northbound lanes, with lane one as a long merge lane with a paved shoulder on the east side. Adjacent to this shoulder is a grassy sloped embankment. In this section of the highway, the concrete travel lanes are straight and level. As V1 was traveling north in lane four, the driver of V1 changed lanes to the right and the right side of V1 impacted the left side of Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Honda Accord four door sedan. The impact caused V1 to begin to rotate slightly clockwise and it crossed over lanes one and two and then over the paved shoulder and departed the roadway to the right. The front of V1 impacted the grassy embankment and caused it to rollover to the left. During this rollover the undercarriage of V1 impacted a signpost, shearing it from its base. V1 continued to rollover on the embankment and completed eight quarter turns before coming to final rest back on its tires on the shoulder, facing southwest. During the last few quarter turns of the rollover event, the front right unrestrained male passenger (not case occupant) was completely ejected through the broken backlight glazing area and he came to rest on the paved shoulder. V1 was towed due to damage. The case occupant is the driver of V1, a 31 year old male, was not restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt, but had frontal and seat back mounted side air bag deployments and remained in the vehicle until final rest. This driver sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. The 28 year old unrestrained front right passenger (not case occupant) had a frontal air bag deployment and was not seriously injured during the crash and was treated and released at the trauma center.