Case Focus: This case was initiated in response to a report of a 16 year old male driver and a 16 year old female passenger, of a 2001 Volkswagen Jetta (case vehicle), both of which were injured in a single vehicle crash involving off-road objects. The 16 year old male driver is 180.0 centimeters (71.0 in) in height and weighs 61 kilograms (135 lbs.). The 16 year old female passenger is 147.0 centimeters (58.0 in) in height and weighs 45 kilograms (100 lbs.). Pre-Crash: This single vehicle collision occurred on a two-lane north/south roadway, during the pre-midnight hour, of an early fall weekday. The posted speed limit for Vehicle 1 was 56 KPH (35 MPH). The roadway has a left turning curve in the area of the crash, but straightens out. The roadway was level and free of any defects. Vehicle 1, a 2001 Volkswagen Jetta, was being driven southbound by a 16 year old male driver (case occupant #1). The driver was not restrained by an available lap and shoulder belt. Frontal and side impact air bags were also present for the driver, but they did not deploy during the multiple-impact crash sequence. The right front occupant was a 16 year old female (case occupant #2). She was retrained by an available lap and shoulder belt. She too had frontal and side impact air bags present, with only the side impact air bag (seat back mounted torso/hip) deploying during the first event (pole impact to the right side plane). Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 departed the roadway to the right, while the driver negotiated the left-handed curve. The driver of Vehicle 1 appears to have steered left to regain the orginal travel lane, but oversteered. At this point, he appears to have initiated a counter steering maneuver to the right, but oversteered right. Vehicle 1 was placed into a clockwise rotation as it departed the roadway, once again, to the right (left side leading). While rotating, Vehicle 1 encountered and embankment at the roadside (wheel gouging to dirt/grass only). Vehicle 1, while still continuing to rotate, impacted a utility pole with its right side plane (1st event). As Vehicle 1 impact the pole, in the area of the right passenger doors, Vehicle 1 contacted a tree with its right rear corner and trunk lip (2nd event). At this time, Vehicle 1 came to rest, with the pole intruding approximately 75 centimeters (29.5 in.) into the passenger's compartment and the tree up against the right rear corner of the vehicle, with the vehicle facing northeast. As a result of the pole impact, the right front door came open (latch/striker). The door opening appears to have occurred when the vehicle was traveling, with the right side leading, in a rearward direction into the pole, catching the rear edge of the door. Post Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant #1) sustained minor to severe injuries in this collision. He was transported to a local trauma center where he was admitted for treatment and observation. The right front occupant of Vehicle 1 (case occupant #2) sustained fatal injuries as a result of this crash. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to the damage sustained in this collision.