Case Focus: The case occupant is a restrained, 46-year-old female passenger, of a 2004 Nissan 350Z (2-door coupe), who was involved in a single-vehicle collision (object off road). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the mid-day hour of a winter weekend, on a four lane, bituminous roadway. This straight and graded roadway consists of two eastbound travel lanes and two westbound travel lanes. Painted, solid, double yellow lines separate the two travel directions. It was daylight at the time of the crash, but it was raining and the newly paved, roadway surfaces were wet. A positive 9.0% grade is present for the westbound travel direction. The posted speed limit for the westbound travel direction is 56 kmph (35 mph). The overall physical environment is residential. Vehicle 1, a 2004 Nissan 350Z 2-door coupe (case vehicle), was being driven by a 50-year-old male. He was restrained by an available 3-point, manual lap and shoulder belt. Occupying the front right seating position was the 46-year-old, female, case occupant. She, too, was restrained by the available 3-point, manual lap and shoulder belt. Vehicle 1 was traveling west in the right westbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 had just negotiated a left-handed curve and had entered the straight portion of the roadway. He intended to continue traveling west. Vehicle 1 is noted to have both driver and passenger frontal impact air bags, but no side impact air bags or curtains. Crash: As Vehicle 1 traveled west, the driver reportedly lost control and departed the roadway to the right (right front tire/rim contacting a curb). The driver initiated a left steering maneuver, which caused the vehicle to yaw (right side leading). As the vehicle straddled the right roadway edge, it struck a utility pole (diameter 30 cm / 12 in) with its right passenger side. As the pole yielded and sheared, Vehicle 1 was deflected back into the roadway (pivoting clockwise). Vehicle 1 came to rest, west of the impact area, in the left westbound travel lane, facing a southwesterly direction. Post-Crash: The EMS arrived at the scene and proceeded to open the right side door (jammed shut by the impact) and remove the roof in order to facilitate the extraction of the front right case occupant. Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were transported, by land, to a local hospital. The driver was reported to have possible injuries, while the case occupant received incapacitating injuries. The driver of Vehicle 1 was treated and released. However, the 46-year-old female case occupant was transferred to a local trauma center where she was hospitalized. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.