Case Focus:

The first case occupant is the 24 year old male driver of a 2001 Jeep Cherokee Sport (4-door compact utility vehicle), which was involved in a rollover. He is 180 cm (71 in) tall and weighs 95 kg (210 lbs).

The second case occupant is also a 24 year old male and he was the right front passenger in the 2001 Jeep Cherokee. He is 183 cm (72 in) tall and weighs 104 kg (230 lbs).

Collision Sequence

Pre-Crash:

This single vehicle collision occurred in the late afternoon hours of a spring weekday. The crash occurred on a curved and heavily graded, 6 lane, divided trafficway. This trafficway runs generally east and west in a rural area and consists of 3 eastbound lanes and 3 westbound lanes. Each 3 lane roadway measures 11.1 meters (37 ft) in total width. Paved shoulders, measuring 3.1 meters (10 ft), are present on the north and south sides of the highway. The east and westbound lanes are separated by a grass and shrub covered median which measures 15.5 meters (51 ft) in width. It was daylight at the time of the crash and no environmental factors played a part. The posted speed limit for both travel directions is 105 km/h (65 mph).

Vehicle 1 (case vehicle), was a 2001 Jeep Cherokee Sport 4-door compact utility vehicle which was being driven by the 24 year old male driver (case occupant 1). He was utilizing the vehicle's manual 3-point lap and shoulder belt in a correct fashion. His friend and coworker, the other 24 year old male (case occupant 2), occupied the front right seating position. He, too, was wearing the available manual 3-point lap and shoulder restraint. Both occupants were seated in a normal, upright position. Vehicle 1 was traveling eastbound, negotiating the heavily graded (negative 3% grade) and curved (left to right) roadway. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling east. Vehicle 1 is equipped with both driver's and passenger's frontal air bags.

Crash:

As the driver of Vehicle 1 negotiated the curved roadway, he lost control of the vehicle. The driver initiated a series of left and right steering maneuvers before over steering to the left, which placed the vehicle into a critical yaw. As Vehicle 1 yawed left (right side leading with the driver counter steering), the right rear tire separated from the rim. Vehicle 1 proceeded toward the median with the right rear rim depositing a long gouge and the right front tire depositing a tire scuff.

As Vehicle 1 entered the median, it finally tripped which induced a roll about the longitudinal axis. Vehicle 1 rolled into the center median, contacting the ground with its roof, left and right sides, before rolling into the westbound travel lanes. As Vehicle 1 rolled into the westbound lanes, it struck the ground/pavement with its roof and left side plane. Vehicle 1 rolled onto its wheels before rolling back onto its roof. Vehicle 1 slid to rest while on its roof. It came to rest partially straddling the north paved shoulder and the number 1 westbound lane. Vehicle 1 rolled 10 quarter turns during the crash.

The total Delta V for Vehicle 1 could not be computed due to the nature of the non-horizontal impact forces (rollover). A collision deformation classification (CDC) of 00TYDO4 was assigned. Direct damage was present over most of the vehicle with the forward portions of the roof and left sides having the most crush. The roof was crushed approximately 23 cm (9 in); however, the driver's window frame was crushed 38 cm (15 in) vertically and 35 cm (14 in) laterally. This crush may be the result of rollover damage, but may also be the result of emergency medical services (EMS) extrication methods.

Post-Crash:

At rest, the case vehicle was on its roof. The front right occupant was able to unbuckle himself and crawl out of the vehicle. The driver was still restrained (unknown portions) and in touch or within close proximity to the roof (large amount of blood smearing / staining). He was unable to exit the vehicle and was cut away from his restraints and removed by EMS personnel. Both occupants were transported, by air, to a local trauma center and hospitalized. The driver (case occupant 1) was subsequently released on the 15th day post crash. The front right passenger (case occupant 2) was subsequently released on the 12th day post crash.

Vehicle 1 was towed due to damage sustained in the crash.