Case Focus: The case occupant is a 61 year old, unrestrained, male driver of a 2003 Hyundai Accent (2/3-door hatchback), which was involved in a two vehicle collision (acute angle impact). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two vehicle collision occurred during the midday on a summer weekday. The crash occurred at the intersection of a straight, two lane roadway and an alley way/parking lot entrance to a commercial/industrial building complex. The two lane roadway runs generally north and south and the travel lanes are separated by a painted, double yellow line. The roadway is wide enough for on street parking; however, there is a no parking zone (east side) as one approaches the alley/entrance from the south. The alley/parking lot entrance is located on the east side of this two lane roadway. There are no visible lane delineations. There also exists another alley/parking lot entrance on the west side of the roadway, but this entrance did not play a part in the crash. At the time of the crash, a 16 meter long (53 ft) commercial trailer was illegally parked within the above mentioned no parking zone and is believed to have restricted the sight lines/distances for the east side alley/parking entrance. All roadway edges are curbed and the bituminous road surfaces were dry (clear weather conditions) and free of defects. The north/south roadway, at the area of the crash, has a level grade and a posted speed limit of 56 km/h (35 mph). The overall environment is commercial with a multitude of commercial/industrial buildings (with alley/parking entrances) bordering the roadway. Vehicle 1 (case vehicle), a 2003 Hyundai Accent 2-door hatchback, was being driven by the 61 year old male case occupant. He was not restrained by the available 3-point lap and shoulder belt. There were no other occupants in the vehicle. Vehicle 1 was traveling west on the alley/parking entrance approaching the north/south roadway (no control devices are present, but a required stop is implied (change of traffic way)). The driver of Vehicle 1 came to a stop, intending to turn left at the intersection, and continue traveling south. Vehicle 1 is noted to have a driver's and a passenger's frontal air bags, frontal seat belt pretensioners and 1st row seat back mounted side impact air bags (head/thorax). Vehicle 2, a 2001 Mercury Cougar 2-door hatchback, was being driven by a 35 year old male of unknown height and weight. As reported by police (on the police accident report (PAR)), this occupant was allegedly wearing the available, manual lap and shoulder belt (unconfirmed). Vehicle 2 is equipped with second generation (depowered) frontal air bags. The driver of Vehicle 2 was traveling northbound on the two lane roadway, approaching the alley/parking lot entrance. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling north. Crash: It is believed that the illegally parked trailer may have obscured the view of the driver of Vehicle 1 and he did not see the approaching Vehicle 2. As Vehicle 1 turned left at the intersection, the driver of Vehicle 2 applied his brakes and skidded to impact. Vehicle 2's frontal plane stuck the left side plane (driver's door area) of Vehicle 1 in a slight, acute angled impact. As a result of this impact, Vehicle 2 pivoted slightly counter-clockwise (sideswiping Vehicle 1) and came to rest in the northbound travel lane just north of the impact area. Vehicle 1 rotated counter-clockwise about 90 degrees (sideswiping Vehicle 2) before traveling backwards and off the right side of the roadway. Vehicle 1 came to rest at the northwest corner of the intersection, facing an easterly direction. As a result of the first impact, Vehicle 1's left front, seat back mounted, side impact air bag deployed. The extent of Vehicle 2's damage is not known, but is believed to have included the entire frontal plane. Vehicle 2 was not available for insepction. Post-Crash: Emergency medical services (EMS) personnel responded to the scene and proceeded to remove the driver's door and roof section of Vehicle 1. The case occupant was subsequently removed and transported, by air, to a local trauma center, where he was admitted. He was hospitalized for approximately 6 weeks (medical complications) post crash. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured. It is not known if the driver sought any type of medical treatment and the extent of his injuries and/or treatment, if any, is not known. Both vehicles were subsequently towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.