Case Focus:

The case occupant is the 68 year old, female driver of a 1997 Toyota Avalon (4-door sedan) involved in an offset frontal collision with a 1996 Ford Explorer. She is 165 cm (65 in) tall and weighs 73 kg (160 lbs).

Collision Sequence

Pre-Crash:

This two vehicle collision occurred in the afternoon hours of a summer weekday. The crash occurred on a two lane, undivided, bituminous roadway that runs generally east and west. The two travel lanes combined measure approximately 7.3 meters in width (24 ft) and are bordered on either side by paved shoulders. The east and westbound travel lanes are separated by a painted, solid, double yellow lines (no passing). A 2.3 % grade is present at the area of the crash; however, this grade is very localized in relationship to the rest of the roadway (level). The roadway is straight at the crash area (localized), but curves are present leading to the crash area. At this time, it is not known if the curvature of the roadway, west of the crash area, played any part in this crash. The crash area falls within a school zone (school zone speed controls present); however, since school was not in session, these controls were not active at the time of the crash. The posted speed limit is 56 km/h (35 mph) for both travel directions. The weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry and free of defects.

Vehicle 1 (case vehicle), a 1997 Toyota Avalon 4-door sedan, was being driven by the 68 year old female driver (case occupant). No other occupants were present. Based upon the vehicle inspection, the driver was not utilizing the vehicle's manual 3-point lap and shoulder belt. Vehicle 1 was equipped with a supplemental restraint system (SRS), which consisted of a frontal air bag for both the driver and passenger seating positions (Both air bags deployed as a result of impact). Vehicle 1 was traveling east and had just passed through a controlled intersection (curved) and entered the straight portion of this roadway. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling east.

Vehicle 2, a 1996 Ford Explorer (4-door compact utility vehicle), was traveling west along the straight portion of the roadway. Vehicle 2 was being driven by a 28 year old male. The front right seating position was occupied by a 13 year old male. Both were reported, by the police report (PAR), to be wearing their respective manual lap and shoulder belts (unconfirmed).

Crash:

As Vehicle 1 traveled east along the straight portion of the roadway, it crossed the center lane divider and partially entered the westbound travel lane. It is suspected that the driver was either fatigued and drifted over or failed to fully negotiate the last portions of the curve; however, this is speculation based upon the various interview comments that the driver was previously ill. The actual cause of the lane departure is not known. The driver (case occupant) does not recall the events of the crash.

Reportedly, the driver of Vehicle 2, seeing the approach of Vehicle 1, steered to the left in order to avoid the collision. It is believed that the driver of Vehicle 1, based upon the final steering wheel position at inspection (possible), steered right in order to regain her respective travel lane. However, both vehicles collided (slight override/underride), in an offset frontal impact at the center lane divider. Both vehicles rotated slightly counter-clockwise before coming to rest. Vehicle 2 came to rest, facing southwest, straddling the center lane divider. Vehicle 1 came to rest, facing an easterly direction. It should be noted that both vehicles came to rest next to each other and in close proximity to the impact area (limited movement post impact).

The total Delta V for Vehicle 1 was computed, using the WinSMASH Missing Vehicle Algorithm, as 34.0 kmph (21 mph) with an associated Collision Deformation Classification (CDC) of 11FYEW4 and a principal direction of force (PDOF) of 340 degrees through the frontal plane. The maximum crush of 93 cm (37 in) was located at the C2 position (inboard of the left front corner) at the above bumper level. This crush is the probable result of Vehicle 2 overriding Vehicle 1 (bumper/frame height differential). The direct damage started 10 cm (4 in) left of center and extended left, 70 cm (28 in). The field plane measured 100 cm (40 in) from bumper mount to bumper mount. This was in response to the horizontal cross member being broken away. As a result of this impact, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags (SRS) deployed.

The total Delta V for Vehicle 2 was computed, using the WinSMASH Missing Vehicle Algorithm, as 30.0 kmph (19 mph) with an estimated (PDOF) of 20 degrees through the frontal plane. Vehicle 2's damage extent is unknown. Vehicle 2 was not available for inspection.

Post-Crash:

Emergency medical services (EMS) personnel responded to the scene and proceeded to remove the driver's side door (door pulled open at the latch/striker area) of Vehicle 1. No other EMS damage was apparent; however, the driver's front seat may have been moved rearward in order to extricate the occupant. The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle and transported, by air, to a local trauma center and hospitalized. She was subsequently released on the 23rd day post crash.

The driver and front right occupant of Vehicle 2 were reported, by the PAR, to be uninjured and were not transported.

Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.