Case Focus: The case occupant is a restrained, 47-year-old male driver, of a 2006 Chevrolet Trailblazer (utility vehicle), who was involved in a two-vehicle collision (angle impact to the front left corner). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours of a fall weekday within the area of an interchange. The area of the crash is composed of a four-lane trafficway interspersed with on/off-ramps leading to/from a limited access highway. The bituminous, four-lane trafficway runs generally north and south and consists of two southbound travel lanes and two northbound travel lanes. The two roadways are separated by a raised, curbed median (no positive barriers). Paved shoulders border the eastern and western edges. It was daylight at the time of the crash and the weather was clear. All road surfaces were dry, and free of defects. The grade, at the area of the crash, was relatively level. The posted speed limit for the north/south trafficway is 64 kmph (40 mph). The overall physical environment is rural. Vehicle 1 (case vehicle), a 2006 Chevrolet Trailblazer LT 4-door utility vehicle, was being driven by the 47-year-old male case occupant. He was restrained by an available 3-point, manual lap and shoulder belt. There were no other occupants present. Vehicle 1 was traveling through the interchange area, in the right southbound travel lane. Vehicle 1 is noted to have both driver and passenger frontal impact air bags (dual stage), but no side impact air bags or curtains. Vehicle 1 is also equipped with a sensing diagnostic module (SDM) which was accessed during the course of the investigation. Vehicle 2, a 2001 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was being driven by a 24-year-old female. Occupying the left rear seating position was a child occupant (1 year old or less). Reportedly, the child occupant was utilizing a child safety seat which was not properly secured inside the vehicle (unknown specifics). Vehicle 2 was traveling west on the limited access highway and had just exited onto the ramp to access the northbound travel lanes. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling northbound. Crash: For unknown reason(s), as it approached the northbound travel lanes, Vehicle 2 was not able to negotiate the slightly graded and curved ramp (right-handed curve). Vehicle 2 departed the roadway to the left, left side leading, and entered a gore area of the interchange. Vehicle 2 struck a small reflector pole (yielding) before sliding through the gore area and across the northbound travel lanes. Vehicle 2's tires and rims then struck and crossed over the raised, curbed median. Vehicle 2 entered the southbound travel lanes, facing north, and its frontal plane struck the front left corner area of Vehicle 1. After this impact, Vehicle 1 was redirected to the right where it departed the roadway. Vehicle 1, after traversing a gore area of the interchange (gouging to the dirt/ground), crossed into the west-to-south ramp lane where it came to rest. Vehicle 2 is believed to have come to rest just north of the impact area with Vehicle 1. As a result of its impact with Vehicle 2, the driver's frontal impact air bag deployed for Vehicle 1. Vehicle 2's damage extent is unknown as the vehicle was not available for inspection. Post-Crash: Prior to transport, the driver of Vehicle 1 had already exited the vehicle, but he could not recall how or when this occurred (LOC). He was subsequently transported, by air, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor, moderate and severe injuries. The driver and child passenger of Vehicle 2 were also transported, by air, to a local hospital with non-incapacitating injuries. The extent of their injuries and/or treatments, if any, is not known. Vehicle 1 and 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.