Case Focus: The case occupant is a 61 year old, restrained, female driver of a 2004 Nissan Sentra (4-door sedan), which was involved in a two vehicle offset frontal collision. Pre-Crash: This two vehicle collision occurred during the very early morning hours (dawn) of a summer weekday. The crash occurred on a four lane, curved roadway within a residential area. This bituminous roadway runs primarily east and west and, at the time of the crash, consisted of two eastbound lanes and two westbound lanes. The opposing travel directions were separated by painted, solid double yellow lines (per the police crash report / PCR). At the time of the scene inspection, the roadway surface had been stripped for paving and new lane patterns had been marked. The weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The posted speed limit for both travel directions is 56 kmph (35 mph). The roadway is relatively level with a grade of 1.3 % at the crash area. Vehicle 1 (case vehicle), a 2004 Nissan Sentra 4-door sedan, was being driven by the 61 year old female case occupant. She was restrained by the available 3-point, manual lap and shoulder belt. There were no other occupants present. The driver of Vehicle 1 was traveling eastbound, in the number two eastbound lane (2nd lane from the right), negotiating the right to left curve. She intended to continue traveling east. Vehicle 1 is equipped with both driver's and passenger's frontal air bags and retractor-type pretensioners. Vehicle 2, a 2001 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, was being driven by a 50 year old male of unknown height and weight. As reported by the police accident report (PAR), this occupant was utilizing the available, manual lap and shoulder belt. There were no other occupants present. The driver of Vehicle 2 was traveling westbound, in the number two westbound lane (2nd lane from the right), approaching the curved portion of the roadway. The driver intended to continue traveling west. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 2 crossed over the left travel lane divider and struck Vehicle 1 in a narrow, offset frontal impact (front left corner to front left corner). As the front left axles engaged, both vehicles rotated counter-clockwise and came to rest in the travel lanes. Their respective rest positions and heading angles (at rest) are unknown. Although the crash and vehicle damage fall within the scope of the WinSMASH program, the coded Delta V result was considered very low given the damage to the axle areas of both vehicles. The low Delta V is attributed to the fact that the WinSMASH program is not able to accurately account for this specific type of impact configuration. However, as a result of this impact, the frontal impact air bags deployed and the pretensioners actuated for Vehicle 1. Post-Crash: Emergency medical services (EMS) personnel responded to the scene and proceeded to extricate the driver of Vehicle 1. The driver's door was removed and the left side pillars were cut through and the roof peeled to the right. She was transported, by air, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to have sustained non-incapacitating injuries. He was transported, by land, to a local hospital. The extent of his injuries and/or treatment are not known. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.