Case Focus:

The case occupant is a 30 year old, restrained, male driver of a 2004 Mini Cooper S (2-door hatchback), which was involved in a two vehicle collision (offset frontal collision). He is 175 cm (69 in) tall and weighs 79 kg (175 lbs).

Collision Sequence

Pre-Crash:

This two vehicle collision occurred during the mid evening hours (dark, no street lights present) of a summer weekday. The crash occurred on a two lane, undivided roadway within a rural area. This bituminous roadway runs north and south and is graded (5.0%). The northbound lane is separated from the southbound travel lane by yellow painted, double solid lines. No shoulders are present. The southbound approach to the crash area is curved; the northbound approach is straight. The weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. The posted speed limit for both travel directions is 56 km/h (35 mph).

Vehicle 1 (case vehicle), a 2004 Mini Cooper S 2-door hatchback, was being driven by the 30 year old male case occupant. He was restrained by the available 3-point, manual lap and shoulder belt. A 27 year old female occupied the front right seating position. A 6 year old male occupied the left rear seating position and a 30 year old female occupied the right rear seating position. All three passengers were restrained by their respective 3-point, manual lap and shoulder belts. Vehicle 1 was traveling north on the straight portion of the roadway (downhill grade) approaching the left to right handed curve. The driver intended to continue traveling north. Vehicle 1 is noted to have driver and passenger frontal impact air bags, seat back mounted side impact air bags (front positions) and roof rail mounted side curtains (all four outboard seating positions).

Vehicle 2, a 1997 BMW 328i 4-door sedan, was being driven by a 45 year old male of unknown height and weight. A 12 year old female occupied the front right seating position. A 10 year old female occupied the left rear seating position and an 8 year old male occupied the right. As reported by the police crash report (PCR), all occupants were allegedly wearing their respective manual lap and shoulder belts (unconfirmed). The driver of Vehicle 2 was traveling southbound negotiating the right to left handed curve. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to negotiate the curve and continue traveling southbound.

Crash:

The driver of Vehicle 2 failed to negotiate the curve and departed the roadway to the right (right wheels only). The driver of Vehicle 2 over-steered left in order to regain the roadway and placed the vehicle into a counterclockwise rotation. Vehicle 2 rotated a complete 360 degrees while crossing the center line before being struck by Vehicle 1 in the southbound travel lane. The frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the front right corner of Vehicle 2 (Event 1). Vehicle 2 continued to rotate counterclockwise 135 degrees to its final rest against a utility pole (Event 2) on the west side of the roadway. Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise after impact and then departed the roadway to the right (east) while traveling backwards. Vehicle 1 came to rest off the east side of the roadway in the front yard of a single family residence.

As expected, the frontal impact air bags, for both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2, deployed (Event 1).

Post-Crash:

Emergency medical services (EMS) personnel responded to the scene. Vehicle 1's driver side door was removed and the driver was extricated from the vehicle. The driver (case occupant) was transported, by air, to a local trauma center and hospitalized. He was subsequently released on the 5th day post crash. All other occupants of Vehicle 1 were transported to medical facilities for treatment.

The driver of Vehicle 2 was also reported to have been transported, by air, to a local trauma center. All other occupants of Vehicle 2 were transported to local medical facilities. The extent of their injuries and/or treatments, if any, are not known.

Both vehicles were subsequently towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.