Case Focus: This case was initiated in response to a report of an injured 51 year old male driver (case occupant) of a 2001 Chevrolet Impala (Vehicle 1), who was admitted to a trauma center. Pre-Crash: This three-vehicle collision occurred at the intersection ("T-type") of a north/south roadway and an east/west roadway, during the early evening hours (daylight), of a late winter weekday. The east/west roaday forms the base leg of the "T" intersection and intersects the north/south roadway on the eastside. As one approaches the intersection from the south, the roadway has a left-to-right curve. The north/south roadway, for both travel directions, was level and free of defects. The posted speed limit for all involved vehicles was 81 KPH (50 MPH). The weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, a 2001 Chevrolet Impala, was being driven northbound by the 51 year old male case occupant. The driver was restrained by an available lap/shoulder restraint and had the benefit of a frontal air bag, which deployed during the impact with Vehicle 2. The driver of Vehicle 1 was traveling northbound, attempting to travel through the intersection at the time of the crash. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with a Sensing Diagnostic Module/Event Data Recorder (SDM/EDR), which was accessed and downloaded during the course of the vehicle inspection. Vehicle 2, a 1997 Toyota 4-Runner, was being driven southbound by a 54 year old female driver. The driver of Vehicle 2 was attempting to travel through the intersection at the time of the crash. Vehicle 3, 1998 Mercury Mystique, was stopped in the southbound travel lane, at the intersection, at the time of the crash. The driver was a 33 year old female driver. The driver of Vehicle 3 was waiting for northbound traffic to clear so she could make a left turn at the intersection to travel eastbound. Crash: Vehicle 2 struck the back plane of Vehicle 3 with its frontal plane (1st event). Vehicle 2 subsequently crossed over the center line of the roadway and into the northbound travel lane. Vehicle 1 struck Vehicle 2's right side plane with its frontal plane (2nd event (angled impact)). Vehicle 1 subsequently "side slapped" Vehicle 2 (left side to right side respectively / 3rd event) prior to the vehicles traveling to their final rest positions. As a result of its impact with Vehicle 2, the frontal air bags for Vehicle 1 deployed. After this multiple impact crash, Vehicle 1 came to a final rest north of the intersection, off the right side of the roadway, facing north. Vehicle 2 also came to rest north of the intersection, facing northeast. The front portion of the vehicle was off the right side of the road while back end of the vehicle was still on the roadway (straddling the roadway edge). The final rest location for Vehicle 3 is unknown, although it is estimated to have come to rest in the southbound travel lane, facing south, in or near the intersection. Post Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) sustained minor to serious injuries. The case occupant was transported to an area hospital and then transferred to a trauma center where he was admitted for treatment and observation. Vehicles 1, 2 and 3 were towed from the crash scene due to damage sustained in this crash.