Case Focus: The case occupant is a 29 year old, unrestrained, male driver of a 1999 Toyota Tacoma (compact pick-up truck), which was involved in a two vehicle collision. Pre-Crash: This two vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours (dusk) of a winter weekday. The crash occurred on a curved, two lane, roadway that runs generally north and south. The roadway measures 6.4 meters (21 ft) in total width, with each travel lane measuring just over 3 meters (10 ft). The north and southbound lanes were separated by a painted, solid yellow, double line. There were no shoulders present and the edges of the roadway, in specific areas, were noted to be deteriorating, but were not a factor in this crash. The bituminous road surface was icy in spots (black ice a factor), but the weather conditions were clear. The roadway, at the area of the crash, is graded (5.4 %). The posted speed limit for the both travel directions is 56 kmph (40 mph). The overall environment is rural with a large open farm field bordering the traffic way on the east and residential yards on the west. Vehicle 1 (case vehicle), a 1999 Toyota Tacoma compact pick-up truck (extra cab), was being driven by the 29 year old male case occupant. He was not restrained by the available 3-point lap and shoulder belt. There were no other occupants in the vehicle. Vehicle 1 was traveling south and the driver was negotiating the graded (positive grade) right to left-handed curve. The driver was noted to be using a cellular telephone at the time of the crash (unknown model / type). The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling south. Vehicle 1 is noted to have driver's and passenger's frontal impact air bags. The passenger air bag is controlled by a suppression switch, which was in the off (suppressed) position. Vehicle 2, a 2003 Dodge Ram 3500 large pick-up truck (with a GVWR greater than the 10,001 lb / 4,536 kg GVWR threshold), was being driven by a 52 year old male of unknown height and weight. The front right seating position was occupied by a 50 year old female. Both occupants were reported, by the police report (PAR), to be utilizing their respective lap and shoulder belts (unconfirmed). Vehicle 2 was traveling northbound and had just started descending the graded curve. The driver intended to continue traveling north. Crash: As Vehicle 1 negotiated the graded curve, it traversed a section of "black ice" and the driver lost control. Vehicle 1 slid sideways (right side leading with a rotation greater than 30 degrees) and crossed into the northbound travel lane. The frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the right side (front/center section) of Vehicle 1 at an angle less than 90 degrees. As a result, Vehicle 1 was pushed off the edge of the roadway, while rotating clockwise less than 90 degrees. Vehicle 1 came to rest off the east side of the roadway, facing south. Vehicle 2 also departed the east side of the roadway and came to rest between Vehicle 1 and the northbound travel lane, facing northeast. As a result of this impact, the driver's frontal impact air bag deployed in Vehicle 1. According to the PAR, Vehicle 2's frontal air bags (SRS) deployed as a result of this impact (unconfirmed). Post-Crash: Fire/Rescue and emergency medical personnel (EMS) responded to the scene and proceeded to remove the roof structure and the driver's door of Vehicle 1. The case occupant was subsequently removed (45 minute extrication) and transported, by air, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was also transported, by air, to a local trauma center. The front right passenger of Vehicle 2 was transported to a local hospital with possible injuries. The extent of their injuries and their treatments, if any, are unknown. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.