Case Focus: The case occupant is a 54 year old, restrained, female driver of a 2003 Toyota Sequoia (large utility vehicle), which was involved in a three vehicle collision. Pre-Crash: This three-vehicle collision occurred during the early morning hours (dawn / street lights present) of an early fall weekday. The crash occurred at the intersection of a divided, multi-lane roadway and two, one-way exit/entrance ramps. This intersection resides with in the limits of a very large interchange area. The divided roadways runs north and south and consist of three southbound lanes (2 through lanes and one dedicated left turn lane) and four northbound lanes (2 through lanes, one dedicated left turn lane and one dedicated right turn lane), which are separated by a grass median (no positive barriers). These roadways form the north and south legs of the intersection. The western leg of the intersection consists of two, one-way exit/entrance ramps. These ramps are separated by a concrete median (wall). The eastern leg of the intersection consists of a parking lot entrance, which did not play a part in the crash. The north/south bituminous roadways are straight, but have a 2.2 % grade (negative for the southbound travel direction). The roadways measure 27.2 meters (90 ft) in total width (inclusive of the median) and has a posted speed limit of 72 km/h (45 mph). There are no traffic control devices at the intersection for the north/south roadways. The two exit/entrance ramps are bituminous and graded (3.7 % positive grade heading towards the intersection). Each individual ramp, at the intersection, measured 5 meters (16.5 ft) in total width; however, the entire western leg (ramps and median) measured 17.4 meters (57 ft). The ramp that controls the traffic flow into the intersection is controlled by a stop sign. The ramp that takes traffic away from the intersection and on to the major east/west highway did not play a part in the crash. All roadway surfaces were dry and the weather conditions were clear. The overall environment is rural with areas of residential development. Vehicle 1 (case vehicle), a 2003 Toyota Sequoia (4-door large utility vehicle), was being driven by the 54 year old female case occupant. She was restrained by the available 3-point, manual lap and shoulder belt. There were no other occupants in the vehicle. Vehicle 1 was traveling north, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver was in the dedicated left turn lane and intended to turn left at the intersection in order to gain access to the major east/west highway. Vehicle 1 is equipped with driver and passenger frontal air bags (2nd generation), frontal seat belt pretensioners (retractor type), 1st row, seat back mounted, side impact air bags and curtains (roof side rail positions). Vehicle 2, a 1996 Jeep Grand Cherokee Laredo (4-door compact utility vehicle), was being driven by a 17 year old male of unknown height and weight. Two other 17 year old male passengers were in the vehicle at time. One was seated in the front right seating position and the other was seated in the right rear seating position. The driver of Vehicle 2 was traveling southbound, in the far right travel lane (1st through lane), approaching the intersection from the north. The driver intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling south. Vehicle 2 is noted to have driver and passenger frontal air bags. Vehicle 3, a 2004 Saturn Vue (4-door compact utility vehicle), was being driven by a 27 year old female of unknown height and weight. There were no other occupants in the vehicle. Vehicle 3 was stopped, at the intersection, in the eastbound ramp lane (stop sign present). The driver of Vehicle 3 was waiting for traffic to clear the intersection in order to turn left and continue traveling northbound. Vehicle 3 has dual stage frontal air bags, as well as 1st row side curtains. Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 initiated a left turn and entered the intersection at the same time as Vehicle 2 was approaching from the north. The driver of Vehicle 2, having seen the left turn of Vehicle 1, braked and skidded (no rotation) into the intersection. The frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the right front plane of Vehicle 1 in a slightly acute angled impact. Vehicle 1 violently rotated counter-clockwise and stuck the back plane of Vehicle 2 with its right rear plane. Although the police report shows this impact to be with the stop sign pole, the extent of damage does not seem to fit this scenario; however, there may exist overlapping damage which is masking a potential pole impact. Vehicle 2 continued in a southerly direction and departed the roadway slightly to the right. Vehicle 2 then crossed through the median area of the eastern leg and entered the eastbound ramp lane. Vehicle 2's frontal plane then struck Vehicle 3's left front plane. Vehicle 2 continued south and came to rest off the right side of the roadway (southwestern corner), south of the intersection, facing south. Vehicle 1 continued to rotate counter-clockwise as it traveled in a southerly direction. Vehicle 1 eventually came to rest in the paved shoulder area, south of the intersection, in close proximity to Vehicle 1 (left and behind Vehicle 2), facing southwest. As a result of the impact with Vehicle 2, Vehicle 3 rotated clockwise slightly more than 180 degrees. Vehicle 3 came to rest at the southwest corner of the intersection, but southwest of its point of impact, facing a westerly direction. The total Delta V for Vehicle 1 (Event 1) was computed using the WinSMASH Missing Vehicle Algorithm; however, the results were extremely low and viewed to be unrealistic given the damage. Due to the unusual crush profile, the engagement angles of the two vehicles and the overlapping damage to the frontal plane of Vehicle 2, the researcher estimated Delta V range was obtained using only the CDC's for Vehicle's 1 and 2 (WinSMASH CDC only Algorithm). The results of this method placed the Delta V within a range that was greater than/or equal to 40 km/h (25 mph), but less than 55 km/h (35 mph). As a result of this impact, the frontal driver's air bag, the passenger's air bag and the right, side impact air bag and curtain deployed. The total Delta V for Vehicle 1 (event 2) could not be computed due to the lack of an accurate crush profile; however, the WinSMASH CDC only Algorithm was used, in conjunction with Vehicle 1 and 2's CDC, to establish the researcher estimated Delta V range. The result of this method placed the Delta V range at 10 km/h (6 mph)or lower (seems appropriate). This impact was minor and the only damage present was to the exterior sheet metal, back right and rear glazing areas. The total Delta V's for both Vehicles 2 and 3 were not calculated. Both vehicles were present at the time of inspection for Vehicle 1, but were not available (issue of permission/ongoing investigation). However, images of the damaged areas to both vehicles were obtained. It should be noted that a CDC of 12FDW4 was assigned to Vehicle 2 (event 1) for the purposes of determining and estimated Delta V range for Vehicle 1. However, Vehicle 2's frontal damage consisted of overlapping damage from two separate impacts. Post-Crash: Emergency medical services (EMS) personnel responded to the scene and proceeded to treat and remove the involved occupants of all three vehicles. The driver of Vehicle 1 was eventually transported, by air, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The 17 year old male occupants (driver and two passengers) of Vehicle 2 were also transported to local trauma centers. The driver was transported by air and the two passengers were transported by land units. All three received incapacitating injuries and were hospitalized. The extent of their injuries and their courses of treatment are not known. The driver of Vehicle 3 was also transported, by land unit, to a local hospital with reportedly minor injuries. She was subsequently treated and released. The extent of her injuries are unknown. All three vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.