Case Focus: The case occupant is a 46-year old male driver, of a 2006 Porsche 911 Carrera 2-door coupe, which was involved in a left side impact (near side). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the pre-midnight hour, of a fall weekend, on a five-lane, east/west roadway. This east/west roadway consists of two eastbound lanes and three westbound lanes. The roadway is curved to the right and has a positive uphill grade for the eastbound travel direction. At the time of the crash, the weather was reported to be cloudy, but the roadway surface was wet from a previous rain. Although the roadway was curved, there were no viewing limitations. Overhead street lamps were present for the westbound travel direction heading into the crash area. The speed limit for this east/west roadway is 48 km/h (30 mph). The 46-year old male case occupant was driving Vehicle 1, a 2006 Porsche 911 Carrera, eastbound in the number two eastbound travel lane. Occupying the front right seating position was his wife, a 42 year-old female. They were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with driver and passenger frontal impact air bags as well as door and seatback mounted side impact air bags. The driver (case occupant) was negotiating the right-handed, graded curve and intended to continue traveling eastbound. A 58-year old male and sole occupant was driving Vehicle 2, a 2004 Dodge Ram 1500 pick-up truck. The driver of Vehicle 2 had just crossed through an intersection and was traveling westbound approaching Vehicle 1. Crash: For unknown reasons, the driver of Vehicle 2 lost control of his vehicle, began a counterclockwise yaw/rotation and entered the number two eastbound travel lane. As a result, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1. Due to the differences in sizes, Vehicle 1 rotated out counterclockwise and struck a curb with its right side wheels as it departed the roadway to the right. Vehicle 1 came to rest, off the roadway, facing a northerly direction. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 2 rolled over onto its right side (1 quarter turn) and slid in a westerly direction. Vehicle 2 came to rest in the number one eastbound lane, on its right side. As a result of the first impact, Vehicle 1's frontal impact air bags deployed as well as the driver's door and seatback mounted side impact air bags. As a result of its impact with the curb, the passenger's door and seatback mounted air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver (case occupant) of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle, by the responding emergency medical services personnel (EMS), and transported to a local trauma center (CIREN) and hospitalized with minor to critical injuries. The passenger of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital and released with no reported injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported as uninjured and was not transported. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.