This case occupant is a 46 year old male driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, with a frontal air bag deployment. He was involved in a severe frontal sideswipe impact, followed by a moderate right side impact and he sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred during daylight hours in the southbound lanes of a three lane, one way, interstate freeway. At the time of the crash, there were clear weather conditions and dry travel lanes. In the area where the crash occurred, the asphalt lanes are straight and level. There is a paved shoulder on the west side of the freeway and a narrow paved strip followed by a jersey barrier on the east side of the travel lanes. Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Toyota Corolla four door sedan, was southbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 BMW 325i four door sedan, and Vehicle three (V3), a 2012 Chevrolet Silverado C3500 crew cab large pickup, were traveling south ahead of V1, with V2 in the center lane and V3 in the inside travel lane. V4, a 2001 Chevrolet Suburban K1500 large utility vehicle, was traveling south just ahead of V1. V2 and V3 began to rapidly decelerate due to ducks in the roadway ahead. As V4 approached the slowing vehicles, the driver steered left but V4's front impacted V3's back. Then V1's front left impacted V4's back right, resulting in the actuation of V1's front row seat belt retractor pretensioners and the deployment of the frontal air bags. As V1 swiped down V4's back right, V1's left doors were pulled rearward, resulting in severe passenger compartment integrity loss. Immediately following this impact, V4 traveled a short distance south and its front impacted the east jersey barrier. V4 came to final rest near the jersey barrier, facing southeast. V1 rotated counterclockwise and its right rear impacted the back of V2, resulting in moderate V1 damage. V2 traveled a short distance south and came to final rest facing south in the center lane. V1 came to final rest across lanes two and three, facing northeast. V3 came to final rest in lane three, facing south. V3 was able to be driven from the scene. V1, V2 and V4 were towed due to damage. The case occupant in V1 is the 46 year old male driver who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His steering column mounted frontal air bag deployed during the crash. He sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. No other occupants were in V1. There were no reported injuries to any of the occupants in the other involved vehicles.