This is a two-vehicle intersection crash that occurred in a 4-way intersection that is normally controlled by tri-light traffic signals, however, at the time of this crash, a flashing yellow light controlled east and westbound traffic and a flashing red light controlled north and southbound traffic. The east/west roadway consists of two westbound and two eastbound lanes that are separated by a continuous left turn lane. The north/south roadway consists of one through lane, one right turn only lane and one left turn only lane in each direction. The speed limit for both roadways is posted 56 kmph (35 mph). Both roadways are straight, level, of bituminous construction and were dry at the time of this crash. The crash occurred in the early morning hours during daylight. The weather was clear, and there were no environmental factors or sight line restrictions that contributed to this crash.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1989 Dodge Aries four door sedan, was traveling westbound in the number one lane approaching the intersection intending to go straight. The driver of V1 noticed vehicle two (V2) entering the intersection from his right, locked up his brakes, and skidded for approximately 3 meters (10 feet) before the front of V1 and the left side of V2 collided. The impact redirected V1 somewhat to the left and V1 traveled southwest, then northwest and came to rest on the north sidewalk facing generally northwest. The restrained V1 driver, a 53-year-old male, was arrested for DUI. A breath test was administered to the driver at one hour after the crash and the result showed a 0.179% of alcohol concentration. V1 was towed due to damage. The V1 driver was also cited for driving on a suspended license and for no insurance. The V1 driver was not reported as injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.
Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Dodge Neon four door (V2), was traveling southbound in the number two lane approaching the intersection. The V2 driver, a 71 year old female, stopped at the intersection and had apparently been stopped for about 5 minutes. The V2 driver entered the intersection intending to turn right. V2 was struck on the left side by the front of V1. The impact rotated V2 clockwise and it came to rest approximately 5 meters west of the point of impact facing generally west. V2 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts. The restrained V2 driver complained of soreness to her head. The restrained V2 right front seat passenger, an 82-year-old male, complained of pain to his left knee. Both occupants refused medical treatment at the crash scene. V2 was towed due to damage. The driver stated that the vehicle was rented the day prior to the crash.