This two-vehicle crash occurred at a T type intersection in a rural area. The crash happened where a north/south two-lane road intersects with an east/west two-lane road. The conditions were clear, dry, daylight and both roadways had posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph).
V1, a 1998 Plymouth Voyager with three occupants, was traveling south approaching the intersecting road. V2, a 2001 Saturn SL2 with one occupant was traveling east approaching the same intersection. Both vehicles entered the intersection and collided at a right angle. The front of V1 struck the left side of V2 and subsequently side slapped. V1 departed the left side of the road and struck a street sign and mailbox. V1 came to final rest on the southeast roadside and V2 came to rest on the south roadside. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.
V1 was driven by a 30-year-old female that was traveling this afternoon in her 1998 Plymouth Voyager with her husband and two young sons. She was returning home after buying some paint and completing some other errands. As she drove south on a 2-lane undivided road, she noticed ahead of her a white Saturn at an intersecting road begin to "inch" forward. As this driver got closer to the intersection, she could see the Saturn still slowly moving forward, so she took her foot off the accelerator. Finally, the Saturn coming from this driver's right side, turned left in front of her as she entered the intersection. This driver said she tried to swerve left, around the car, but was not able to avoid the crash. The front of her minivan struck the left side of the Saturn, departed the left side of the road, struck a mailbox, and came to final rest on the front lawn of a home. This driver received a small scratch to her right thigh after striking the keys hanging from her ignition. She was not treated and none of her passengers were injured.
She has a corrective lens restriction on her driver license and reports to be in good health. Her family recently moved to the area two months ago and she had only traveled on this road a handful of times.
V2 was driven by a 71-year-old female that is retired. She is a "borderline" diabetic, has high blood pressure, suffers from arthritis, is near-sighted, and has hearing difficulties. She takes medication for her poor health.
For this trip today, she was returning home from the Post Office after dropping off items she sold at her online store. She normally goes to a Post Office that is a little further from her home but decided to go to a closer station because she opened a new PO Box and wanted to check it for mail. Driving to this other station caused her to take an alternate route home. As she drove home, she stopped at a stop sign and waited for traffic to clear before attempting a left-turn (north.) After two northbound vehicles passed her, she looked to the north and did not see any traffic. She proceeded to enter the roadway (turning left) and noticed a southbound vehicle (V1) driving toward her. This driver immediately stopped midway in the road but could not avoid a collision. She was struck in the left front quarter panel by the southbound minivan. She reports that there was tall grass at the intersection restricting her sightline to southbound traffic but a scene inspection did not consider the grass to be factor.