This two-vehicle crash occurred on a two-way, two-lane, not physically divided roadway. There was an intersecting road, although the intersection did not play a part in this crash, and there were no traffic signals controlling the intersection. The posted speed limit upon which both vehicles were traveling was 40 kmph (25 mph). There were no atmospheric conditions at the time of the incident, and the roadway was dry. The gradient for this roadway was measured to be level.
Vehicle one (V1) was a large truck and was heading north on the roadway. Vehicle two (V2) was a light vehicle and was also heading in the same direction, traveling behind V1. There was a green traffic light up a few blocks. The driver of V2 noticed this and was wondering why traffic was not moving. V2 decided to go around the truck using the shoulder to achieve this. After overtaking the truck, V2 attempted to return back to the original lane of travel at which point V2 was struck by the large truck. The front of the large truck made contact with the driver side of V2. The impact caused the light vehicle to spin counter clockwise approximately 30 degrees before coming to final rest in the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
The driver of V2 was transported to the hospital due to possible injuries. The vehicle suffered moderate to major damage and had to be removed from the scene. The interview was obtained on a follow up telephone call to the driver. Through the interview, it was revealed that they were indeed in a hurry because of an appointment with the local DMV. The driver also stated that they were not familiar with the surrounding area, and in addition, they had never driven on this particular roadway before. As previously stated, the driver of V2 thought the green light ahead of them was for the intersection they were approaching. That was not the case, as the signal was designated for an intersection a few blocks up. Since the traffic was not moving the driver of V2 took it upon themselves to move around the truck in front of their vehicle. When they attempted to return to the original travel lane, that is when the large truck (V1) struck V2. The driver stated that no fatigue related issues played a part in this crash, and that no drugs were taken on the day of, or in the days prior to this incident.