This single vehicle crash occurred late morning hours on a two-way two lane roadway. This section of the roadway is bituminous asphalt and has a negative 7% grade. This two lane roadway runs east and west and is divided by a double yellow line. The speed limit is 48 kmph (30 mph). On the north side of the roadway there is a grassy area that has a negative 41% grade. As you travel westbound down this roadway you approach a bridge that runs over a river. There were no adverse weather conditions and/or sight restrictions at the time of this crash.
Vehicle one (V1) a 2002 Chevrolet Cavalier two door coupe, driven by a 18 year-old female was traveling westbound down this two lane roadway it was between two non contact vehicles. V1 departed the roadway to the right and continued in a northwest direction of travel. V1 impacted the ground with it's undercarriage as it continued to travel off road. V1 approached an embankment/cliff area that had a drop of about 80 degrees or approximately 7.6 meters (25 feet). V1 went off of the embankment and it's front made contact with the running river. V1 was then swept down stream approximately 30.48 meters (100 feet) where it came to a final rest facing south. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
The driver stated that she worked delivering dentures for a dentist. She told her employer that she was very tired before her route. She made several stops and had driven between 97-113 kilometers (60-70 miles). She stated that she didn't wake up until right before she went over the embankment. There were no avoidance maneuvers made. An additional factor was employer related stress. She stressed to her employer that she was very tired but was told to go anyway.
A witness traveling in front of V1 stated that he saw her through his rearview mirror go off of the roadway right. He further stated that he thought she was going to pass him on the grass because she accelerated. He then noticed that she seemed to appear slumped over (passed out or asleep). Then she went over the embankment.