The crash occurred on a north/south two-lane, urban, level residential roadway on a weekday evening shortly before midnight. This arterial road was straight and then made a slight 15-degree curve to the left before continuing straight again. There was a two-lane side street that intersected the roadway from the west in the curve. A curb and sidewalk were present on the west side of the road. Conditions were dark and dry and the posted speed limit was 64 kmph (40mph).
Vehicle 1 was a 2003 Chevrolet Express 2500 series cargo van traveling south on the two-lane road. The driver was traveling too fast to negotiate the curve and lost control. He crossed over into the northbound lane in a slight yaw and departed the left (east) side of the road. The van struck a utility pole with its front left corner and continued south 8m before running over a large rock that was 40cm high with its right front wheel. The right front wheel was sheared off and the left front wheel dug into the soft ground as the van rode up on the rock. Vehicle 1 became airborne and began to roll to the left as it rotated clockwise. The van then suffered its most severe impact when its top back struck a large tree after rolling one-quarter turn. Damage to the tree, which was 30m from roll initiation, extended from the ground 2.8m up the tree. The vehicle came to rest on its top facing west 5m off the road and 54m south of initial impact with the pole. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1.
Data was extracted from the EDR and indicated that there was a non-deployment event 0.3 seconds prior to the airbag deployment event and that there were one or more associated events not recorded. Both the non-deployment and deployment pre-crash graphs were identical and indicated that five seconds prior to algorithm enable the vehicle was traveling 94mph (151kph) with brake switch circuit status on and throttle percentage at 0%. Three seconds prior to AE the throttle was applied at 74% and brakes were released with a speed of 88mph (142kph). At two seconds the brakes and throttle were both off and the speed was down to 80mph (129kph). One second prior to AE the throttle was at 0% the brakes were on with a speed of 71mph (114kph). Maximum SDM recorded longitudinal velocity change was 5mph and the driver was unbuckled.
The 20-year old male driver was able to crawl out of the vehicle through a broken window and fled the scene. Police located him at his intended destination ½ mile from the crash scene when a friend requested an ambulance a short time later. He was transported to an area trauma center where he was hospitalized. The driver refused a blood alcohol test but told researchers the night of the crash he'd drank about eight beers and taken four Xanax "totem poles." He had worked his regular eight-hour day after a normal night's rest and had gone to a bar after work. Although he was very familiar with the road, he was in a company van that he rarely drove when the crash happened. Police charged the driver with several violations, including DUI.