The crash happened shortly after midnight. The weather was below freezing with a wind chill. The crash site was located in a residential neighborhood. The main street (east-west roadway) was leading to a recreational/ leisure part of town and had a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The residential (north-south) roadway had a speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). The residential roadway is a 2-lane, 2 way undivided roadway with an asphalt surface. The main street is a 4-lane 2 way undivided asphalt roadway with a positive slope of 4.1% for westbound traffic. The road surfaces were dry and there were no hazardous environmental conditions. Overhead luminaries light the intersection. Traffic southbound on the residential street is controlled by a stop sign before entering the intersection.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Volkswagen Beetle, was traveling south at a high rate of speed evading a police traffic stop. A police car was chasing V1. The driver failed to stop as it entered the collision intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Toyota 4-runner, was traveling west in the second lane and the front of V2 struck the left passenger compartment of V1. Both vehicles rotated counter clockwise and came to rest in the southwest quadrant of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. The driver of V2 was not injured and walked away from the scene after the scene was cleared. The driver of V1 was pinned in the vehicle until the fire department removed the driver's door. He was then taken to a local hospital. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 is a 29 year-old male who possess a valid driver's license. The driver was not available for interview. At the time of the crash the driver was fleeing the police, ran the stop sign at the collision intersection while attempting a left turn and was struck by V2. The report completed by the investigating officer states a blood sample was taken and the narrative states he was intoxicated. According to the report he was evading police, and running traffic control devices.
The driver of V2 was a 27 year-old male. He was on a leisure trip, going from his residence less than a block away from the crash to a friend's house approximately 3 blocks from the scene. He drives the route daily and is familiar with the vehicle and stated it was in good condition. He possesses a valid driver's license with no restrictions or endorsements. He claimed to be in good health, not in a hurry, not taking any medication, not conversing and had not been involved in any employment, family or personal disagreements. He had slept 8 hours the night before at his residence, and claimed to be rested prior to this portion of the trip. He does not need corrective lens.