This crash occurred southbound lane of a two-lane roadway. It was a mid-week night after dark with the streetlights on. There were overcast conditions. The posted speed was 59 kmph (35 mph). The roadway was dry, level asphalt.
Vehicle #3 had slowed to watch for his street to turn onto. V#2 slowed as well noting the taillights of V#3. V#1 was traveling at a constant velocity and did not see the slowed vehicles until it was too late. V#1 contacted V#2's back pushing V#2 into V#3. V#3 rolled forward about 50ft. coming to final rest in it's original travel lane. V#2 came to final rest at its point of impact in its original travel lane. V#1 rolled a few feet to final rest in its original travel lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
Vehicle #1 a 1995 Ford Taurus was driven by a 19 year-old male who is in good health but takes medication for allergies that has possible side effects of drowsiness and fatigue. He had just left home to go to work. At the time of the crash he states that he had just picked up his cell phone to call work. He stated that he was not in a hurry or late for work. He suffered no injuries and his vehicle was towed from the scene due to damage.
Vehicle #2 a 1996 Ford Escort was driven by a 43 year-old male who is in good health. This driver claimed that he did not see any headlights coming from behind him. He stated he was slowing down behind V#3 when he was rear-ended by V#1. The driver of V#2 was uninjured but the passenger was transported to a treatment facility with possible injuries. V#2 was towed due to damage.
Vehicle #3 a 2001 Pontiac Bonneville was driven by a 75 year-old male who claims to be in good health but does take several medications due to a heart bypass and angina attacks. He also wears hearing aids. He stated that he had slowed down because he does not see as well at night as in the day and did not want to pass his street (trees block it). The driver suffered possible injuries but was not transported. V3 was driven from the scene.