This crash occurred on a four lane two-way roadway. The lanes of travel where north & south, the roadway was level asphalt. The weather conditions where clear, the roadway was dry. The speed was posted at 76 KMPH ( 45mph). Where the crash occurred there was an intersection that was on the east side of the roadway. The roadway was two-lanes in each direction. V#1 traveling south had stopped to turn left onto an east bound roadway. After sitting stopped for several seconds watching on coming traffic V#1 proceeded to make it's turn. There was a non-contact work vehicle parked near the intersection in lane one of the east bound roadway, also as V#1 proceeded to turn, there was another vehicle approaching the intersection traveling west in lane one of the roadway. As V#1 turned it was contacted by V#2 at the right side of the vehicle. V#1 then slid sideways to final rest at the north east corner of the intersection. V#2 after contact rotated clockwise and came to final rest at a south-easterly angle in lane two of the north bound and lane two of the south bound side of the roadway. The driver of V#1 was transported to a local E.R. unit to be looked over for injuries. He stated he was ok. The drive of V#2 was transported to a local trauma unit due to injuries form the crash.
Vehicle # 1 was a 1992 Chevrolet Pickup driven by a 84 year-old male who is deaf and stated he wanted to decline the interview. The driver had his insurance company call me from out of state to ask about our research and told me she would let her client know it was ok to give me the information about the crash. After several attempts the drive declined the interview. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
Vehicle #2 was driven by a 41 year-old female who stated she had just came from the corner store and was traveling north on her way to her husbands place of work. She also stated she had just passed another vehicle and was in lane one when she saw V#1 edging forward to make a left turn onto the roadway to her right (east) and stated she hoped it would not turn. At the last moment V#1 turned, V#2 stated she applied the brakes and turned her head. After contacting V#1 her vehicle spun around not knowing in which direction. The driver stated when the vehicle stopped she crawled away from her vehicle to the curb where a person said to her to lay down he had called for help. The driver stated she thought her vehicle might catch on fire. This driver stated that she is in good health and is not taking any medications at this time. She does not wear glasses.
#1 witness stated he had just turned from his work vehicle in time to see the contact of the vehicles. He stated he then ran hoping not to be hit and when the vehicle came to final rest he ran to the driver of V#2 as she crawled from her vehicle. The west bound non-contact vehicle went to the other driver. He stated he thought both vehicles were traveling at the speed they should of been traveling.
#2 witness was a husband and wife who state they were west bound coming to the intersection and saw V#1 turning into the street they were traveling. They also stated the V#1 seemed to slow down as he turned. He had stated that they saw the north bound vehicle traveling faster then the speed limit. They had stated that as they checked on the driver of V#1 they found that he was Deaf and they knew sign language so they interpreted for EM'S persons.