V1, a 1995 Buick LeSabre, was traveling southbound on a five-lane undivided roadway (3 lanes southbound, 2 lanes northbound) in the second lane of travel. The roadway was wet and level. The crash occurred in the early afternoon hours on a weekday. V2, a 1986 Dodge Ram pickup, was stopped facing south in the third lane of travel (a left hand turn lane) on the same roadway, intending to turn left at a 4-way signalized intersection. The Dodge was stopped behind V3, a 1997 Saturn SL1, which was also stopped in the left hand turn lane waiting to turn left at the intersection. V1 drifted from the second lane of travel into the third and the front of V1 contacted the back of V2. This impact pushed the front of V2 into the back of V3. All vehicles came to final rest on the roadway.
The driver of V1 reported that he had no idea what had happened. He said that he blacked out just prior to the crash. The driver had one pre-existing health condition - asthma - but was not on medication. The driver had been traveling for 10 miles before crash occurred. He reported only having four hours of sleep the night before. He was reported as having minor injuries, but refused medical treatment. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V2 was waiting behind V3 at the traffic signal, waiting for V3 to complete his left turn so that he could make his own turn. While stopped in traffic, his vehicle was rear-ended by V1 and pushed into V3. The driver of V2 was wearing his prescription lenses that corrected a myopic (nearsighted) condition. He was not injured.
The driver of V3 was stopped at a traffic signal in the left turn lane, waiting for the light to change so that he could initiate a left turn when he was struck from behind by V2. V2 had been pushed into V3 by V1. The driver of V3 was taking unknown medications for high blood pressure and cholesterol. He was wearing prescription lenses for a hyperopic (farsighted) condition and was not injured.
No Critical Precrash Event and no Critical Reasons were coded to the driver of V3 because he was not involved in the first harmful event. He was not thought to have contributed to the crash.