This two-vehicle crash occurred just past noon during daylight hours in the four northbound lanes of a divided eight-lane interstate highway. Both vehicles were traveling northbound, on a straight, level dry, concrete roadway, which has tire ruts in lanes one and two. Traffic was flowing, without congestion. The weather was clear, dry, and it was sunny. The posted speed limit is 97 kmph ( 60 mph).
Vehicle one (V1) was a 1994 Chevrolet S-10 Blazer driven by a 25 year-old male with one passenger. V1 was traveling northbound in lane one, pulling a utility trailer loaded with approximately 680 kilograms (1,500 lbs) of cargo (personal belongings). The driver stated he was traveling between 65-80 kmph (41-50) mph the trailer began to bounce around on the ruts in the lane one. The driver considered pulling over onto the right shoulder to find out why the trailer was bouncing. For unknown reasons, trailer swing caused V1 to depart the travel lanes to the right, then re-entered the travel lanes and V1 shot out across all lanes to the left. V1 was heading westbound out of control, and as the driver steered right, trying to correct, he then experienced a jackknife event. At the time V1 was approaching lane four, the trailer disconnected from V1. Vehicle two (V2) was a 1991 Chevrolet pick-up driven by a 57 year-old male. V2 was impacted on the right side from an unknown part of V1. V1 then rolled two quarter turns to the left coming to rest in lane three facing northbound on the roof. The trailer came to rest up against the guardrail facing northbound. V1 and its trailer were both towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
When V1 one came across all four lanes out of control, the driver of V2 saw this and applied the brakes with lockup. V1 impacted the right side of V2. V2 was pushed to the left and up onto the guardrail. V2 slid down the guardrail breaking 3-4 posts and coming to rest facing eastbound straddling the guardrail. The rear tires of V2 were both on the west side of the guardrail. V2 was towed due to damage.