This three-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of a single lane two-way intersection, one southbound and one eastbound, both with parking lanes on either sides. The roadways were asphalt, dry, and level and the posted speed limit was 56kmph (35 mph). Signalized traffic devices controlled both directions. The crash occurred in the early afternoon on a weekday. The traffic flow was normal and the weather was clear.
V1, a 2004 Chevrolet Malibu police plain clothes vehicle, was traveling southbound on the single lane roadway when it contacted, with its front, the left side of V2, a 2003 Ford Crown Victoria marked police cruiser, traveling eastbound on the crossing one way roadway. After the initial impact, V2 left tire blew out causing it to pivot and rotate counter-clockwise and contact, with its right side, a fire hydrant located on the southeast curb of the intersection. The impact caused the hydrant to dislodge and hit a woman sitting on her steps located on the curb area several feet from the corner. V2 continued to rotate counter-clockwise and contact, with its left side, the concrete wall where it came to final rest on the curb facing eastward. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
Meanwhile, V1, after the initial impact, rotated counter-clockwise and was struck on its right side by the front of V3, a 1999 Ford Crown Victoria marked police cruiser, traveling eastbound. V3 rotated slightly clockwise and remained in the middle of the intersection. All three vehicles were towed due to damages. All of the occupants and the pedestrian were transported to the hospital with moderate injuries.
All three drivers refused interviews. They said its police policy not to discuss the events of the crash. However, a witness sitting on adjoining steps from the pedestrian struck by the hydrant, said the police were coming from everywhere traveling at a high rate of speed through the intersection without stopping for the traffic lights. There were several police vehicle passing through the intersection, she said, prior to the crash vehicles and that's what caught her attention. The actual speed of the vehicles is unknown.