This is a two-vehicle crash that occurred at 1256 hours on a four-way intersection that is controlled by a traffic light on colors that was in proper working order at the time of the crash. The intersection has a north/south roadway. There are two southbound and two northbound lanes that are separated by a continuous left turn lane. The east/west roadway has two eastbound and two westbound lanes that are separated by a continuous left turn lane. There is a westbound dedicated right turn lane at the east side of the intersection. The speed limit on the east/west roadway is posted 56 kmph (35 MPH). The weather at the time of the crash was clear and there were no sight line restrictions or obstructions noted at the scene.
V-1, a 1988 Ford Mustang coupe, was traveling westbound in the #2 lane. The vehicle entered the intersection on a green light and stopped for about 10 seconds. The driver stated that he saw V-2 traveling eastbound approaching the intersection. The traffic light turned yellow and the driver of V-1 began to make the left turn. The driver, a 29-year old male, stated that he thought V-2 was going to stop when he made his left turn. The front of V-1 struck the left side of V-2. The impact caused V-1 to continue off the right side of the roadway in a southwesterly direction. The vehicle came to rest off the west edge of the north/south roadway facing in a southerly direction. The vehicle was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.
V-2, a 1996 Ford Explorer 4X4, was traveling eastbound in the #2 lane approaching the intersection on a green light at approximately 56 kmph (35 MPH). The driver of V-2, a 19-year old male, stated that he saw V-1 stopped in the intersection to turn left. The driver stated that he began to slow down. Just prior to entering the intersection, the traffic light turned yellow. V-1 then made a left turn into the path of V-2. The driver of V-2 stated that he steered to the right and applied his brakes (no lock up) to avoid the crash. The front of V-1 struck the left side of V-2. The impact caused V-2 to rotate counterclockwise and travel in a southeasterly direction. The vehicle continued to rotate until it traveled off the edge of the roadway near the southeast corner of the intersection. The rear of V-2 struck a traffic light cabinet. The vehicle had an after market suspension lift. The vehicle was towed due to damage.