This two-vehicle crash occurred during early morning hours at an intersection consisting of two lanes one way east and six lanes north/south with a grass median. The intersection is controlled by on-colors traffic signals. The collision occurred during daylight the roadway surface is asphalt, dry and free of defects. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time. The speed limit is 64 kmph (40mph).
Vehicle one (V1), a 1993 Geo Storm coupe driven by a 46 year-old male was traveling eastbound in the second lane of a two-lane attempting a left turn. Vehicle two (V2) a 1993 Ford Escort sedan driven by a 22 year-old male was traveling southbound in the second lane. As V1 entered the intersection its left side was impacted by the front of V2. V1 rotated clock-wise and came to rest westward in the roadway south of the point of impact. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the collision. V2 rotated clock-wise and came to rest northward with its front off the roadway east of the collision. V2 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the collision. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 was well rested and familiar with area. The driver was not under the influence of drugs or alcohol. As V1 crossed his path, he applied his brakes but did not redirect the path of the vehicle. He stated that his view of V2 was blocked by the retaining wall on the northwest corner. He received citations for Failure to Maintain Financial Responsibility and No Driver's License. The 22-year-old male driver of V2 was well rested and familiar with area. The driver was not under the influence of drugs or alcohol. As V1 crossed his path, he applied his brakes and steered the vehicle to the left. He stated that his view of V1 was blocked by the retaining wall on the northwest corner. He received no citations.
Additional factors,The driver of both vehicles claimed to have the green light and there was no witness to contradict either driver.