This crash occurred on a Wednesday during mid-morning hours involving two passenger cars at a signalized four-leg intersection. The posted speed limit was reduced from 56 kmph (35 mph) to 48 kmph (30 mph) prior to the intersection for both vehicles. Vehicle one was going southbound on a four-lane undivided two-way roadway. It was curved to the right before it became straight and intersected the road vehicle two was traveling on. Vehicle two was traveling westbound on a two-lane undivided two-way road. The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Ford Escort Station Wagon (used as a taxi cab) was traveling south in the second lane. The driver had just left the airport and was heading south to the downtown area. He was transporting two passengers. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan, was traveling west in the first lane. The origin of the trip and the final destination is not known for vehicle two. The driver's residence is located a few kilometers/miles west of the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
As the driver of V2 attempted to cross the intersection, the driver of V1 applied his brakes (without lock up) but was unable to avoid a collision. The front end of V1 impacted the right side of V2 within the intersection. After impact V2 rotated to counter clockwise and V1 rotated clockwise. Both vehicles came to rest within the intersection. Both vehicles were equipped with frontal airbags, but there were no deployments during this collision. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. The driver of V1 refused treatment at the scene and the driver of V2 did not report any injuries.
The driver of V1 was a 43-year old male who claimed to be well rested and in good health. He was a licensed cab driver with more than 5 years experience in his profession. His work related portion of this trip started 15 minutes earlier and 3.2 kilometers (2 miles) north of the crash site. He does not take any medication. There was no indication of alcohol/drug involvement. He drives the route daily and is comfortable with his vehicle. He was not in a hurry, no previous arguments, not conversing and was attentive to the driving task. He stated he had a green signal light. In his version of the crash event he stated vehicle two was attempting a left turn from the northbound lanes into the westbound lanes. Neither vehicle was seen at final rest by the NASS researcher.
The driver of V2 was a 56-year old female who did not want to be interviewed at the scene. She did tell the researcher she was very tired and wanted to go home and rest. During the next day the researcher tried to contact her in person. A neighbor advised the researcher the driver is working night shifts and would be home during the day. Further attempts to talk with the driver were unsuccessful. The police report indicates the driver of vehicle two ran a red light. This statement is based on a witness account. The statement made by the driver herself and the information gathered from a neighbor indicate fatigue could have played a role in this crash. It is more than likely the driver of V2 was on her way from work to her residence. Since the witness was stopped at a red light, facing east, it is likely the driver of V2 ran a red light going west. The exact error that led to the driver's decision cannot be determined. According to the par, the officer at the scene made sure the traffic lights are functioning properly.
There were neither environmental factors nor vehicle factors for either driver.