The crash occurred at the intersection of a rural north/south median divided highway and a two lane residential road. The highway is straight and level with shoulders and left turn lanes leading to a crossover that allows access to the two-lane road. The two-lane road intersected on the east and west and was controlled by stop signs. The posted speed limit on the highway was 89kph (55mph). Conditions were daylight and dry in the late afternoon on a weekday. The sun was setting, but was not believed to have been a factor in the collision.
Vehicle #1 was a 1997 Buick Park Avenue traveling west on the two-lane road. Vehicle #2, a 1994 Nissan Altima, was southbound on the highway in the left lane. Vehicle #1 crossed the northbound lanes and stopped in the median crossover and waited for two non-contact southbound vehicles to turn left into the crossover. The Buick (V1) then proceeded across the southbound lanes and was struck in the right side by the front of the Nissan (V2). After initial impact Vehicle #1 rotated counterclockwise and Vehicle #2 rotated clockwise resulting in a secondary side slap impact between Vehicle #1's right and Vehicle #2's left. The Buick (V1) came to rest facing northeast in southwest corner of the intersection. The Nissan (V2) came to rest off the southwest corner of the intersection facing south. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
Vehicle #1 was operated by a 48-year old female that was belted with no deployed airbags. She was not injured in the crash. She stated that she stopped in the median crossover, waited for two other vehicles to turn left to the street she had just exited and started across the intersection. She said she looked after the other vehicles passed but didn't see any oncoming vehicles.
Vehicle #2 was operated by a 46-year old male that was not belted with deployed frontal airbags. He was transported to an area hospital with non-incapacitating injuries. Vehicle #2 left 22m of pre impact skids and steered into the right lane in an attempt to avoid the other vehicle.