A two-vehicle rear-end crash occurred on a weekday in the early afternoon hours on a suburban 5-lane undivided roadway. The weather conditions were clear, dry, and sunny. The roadway runs west and east with a speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). There is a 4-way intersection, controlled by a traffic signal with a pedestrian crossing indicator, at the crash location.
Vehicle 1, a 1997 Ford Aerostar XLT minivan, was traveling west in lane one of the roadway while V2, a 1993 Subaru Legacy sedan, was stopped in lane one at an intersection. Vehicle 1's front struck the back of Vehicle 2, causing both vehicles to be towed from the scene due to damage. Both vehicles were occupied by its driver only and neither was seriously injured; however, Vehicle 2's driver was examined at the scene by EMS. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.
The driver of Vehicle one was a 69-year-old male who was not familiar with the area of the city or the roadway he was traveling. He was driving to a hardware store after work and for some unknown reason his attention was focused on an extraneous vehicle ahead of him. As the extraneous vehicle changed lanes, this driver's eyes remained fixed on the vehicle while he was daydreaming. After a second or two, this driver refocused his attention to the traffic in his lane when he noticed he was approaching a traffic signal and a stopped car in his lane. He immediately tried to avoid colliding with V2 by locking his brakes. This driver works a part-time job and normally sleeps 8.5 hours per night. He admittedly went to bed an hour later because he was watching the NCAA basketball championship, but said he still felt rested when he woke up at his normal time. This driver was taking a cholesterol-lowering medication and wears corrective lenses for his far-sightedness and astigmatism.
The driver of Vehicle two was a 45-year-old male that was driving to work and stopped for the red signal at an intersection he drives past daily. He reports he was stopped for several seconds before he was struck in the back by V1. He was in good health, with good vision, and no associated factors were coded to this driver.