This three-vehicle crash occurred mid-morning on a clear day. The crash occurred at a four way intersection controlled with traffic signals. The east to west roadway is four-lane and curves to the right. The south to north roadway is five-lane, straight, level, and divided without a positive barrier. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Ford Ranger, was westbound in lane two traveling at approximately 32 kmph (20 mph). Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Mitsubishi Mirage, was northbound in lane two. Vehicle three (V3), a 1996 Ford Explorer, was eastbound in lane two, decelerating and then stopping as it approached the intersection. As V1 entered the intersection the front plane struck V2's right plane. The vehicle continued west and its front left plane struck V3's left plane. The vehicle continued rolling SW until it came to final rest against the south curb facing south. V2 came to rest against a light pole, not a damage-producing event. V1 and V2 were both towed due to damage. V3 was not towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a sixty-three year old male, was driving home from an appointment. This driver had eight hours of sleep the previous night. This driver drives this road daily and in this vehicle daily. This driver was taking eighteen prescribes medications. In his remarks this driver claimed a green light. A witness behind V2 indicated that V2 had a green light.
The driver of V2, a twenty-four year old female, was eastbound. This driver had been driving for about five minutes and had been up for less than one hour at the time of the crash. This driver drives on this road daily and in this vehicle daily.
The driver of V3, a thirty-year-old female, had just left a credit union near this intersection and was stopping at the intersection. This driver had only been driving for about one minute or two. This driver drives this road daily and in this vehicle daily. This driver had only been up for about ninety minutes at the time of the crash.