The crash occurred in the westbound lane of a 5 lane not divided roadway. There were 2 lanes in each direction with the middle lane as the turning lane. The roadway had a posted speed of 56 KMPH (35 MPH) and it was level. Conditions were daylight and dry with clear skies. The crash occurred near mid afternoon on a weekday.
V1, a 1999 Chevrolet Prism 4dr, was westbound in lane 2 of the roadway. V2, a 1991 Toyota Corolla 4dr was also westbound in lane 2 of the same roadway in front of V1. V3, a 2000 Ford Focus 4dr, was westbound in lane 2 stopped in front of V2. V1 changed lanes partially into lane 1 then returned to lane 2. Traffic in lane 2 was slowing for backed up traffic ahead. V1's front, contacted V2's back, as it was slowing to a stop which caused V2 to accelerate forward, then contacting, V3's back. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The Chevrolet Prism (Vehicle 1) was driven by a 20-year old male who was uninjured in the crash. He stated that he was in lane 2 looking to move into lane 1 and as he began to move into lane 1 another vehicle speed by him. To avoid being hit, he swerved back into lane 2 just as V2 was slowing down for traffic. V1's front contacted V2's rear. V1 was driven from the scene with minor damage.
The 50-year old female driver of the Toyota Corolla (Vehicle 2) stated she was slowing for traffic in lane 2 when she was struck from behind by V1. She then lost control of her vehicle and struck V3 in the rear. The driver of V2 was transported, treated and released from the hospital. The Corolla was towed due to damage.
The 43-year old female driver of the Ford Focus (Vehicle 3) stated that she had just come to a stop in lane 2 when she was struck from behind by V2. The driver of V3 was transported, treated and released from the hospital. V3 was driven to the tow yard, which was across the street.
No Critical Precrash Event and no Critical Reason were coded to the driver of the Focus because he was not involved in the first harmful event (the impact between the front of the Prism and the rear of the Corolla). The driver was myopic (near-sighted) and was wearing her glasses at the time of the crash. She was taking medications for allergies and asthma, some of the side effects are, tremors, dizziness and fainting, shakiness, and nervousness, but was thought not to contribute to the crash. The properly licensed driver of V3 was familiar with both the vehicle and the roadway. She was running an errand on her lunch hour and was neither late nor in a hurry. There were no indications of fatigue or medical complications on her part. No mechanical defects were found to be present for V3.