This is a two vehicle left turn intersection crash that occurred during morning daylight hours on a four-way intersection that is controlled by a stop sign and a flashing red light for northbound and southbound traffic. There is one northbound and one southbound lane that are separated by painted centerline stripe. There is also one westbound and one eastbound lane that are separated by a painted centerline stripe. The speed limit on both roadways is posted 80 kmph (50 MPH). There were no sight line restrictions and no obstructions noted at the scene. The weather at the time of the crash was clear.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Dodge Ram 1500 pickup, was traveling southbound approaching the intersection. The vehicle stopped for more than 10 seconds. The driver, a 32-year old male, looked to his left and then drove through the intersection and struck the left side of vehicle two (V2). After impact, the vehicle traveled through the intersection and the driver apparently turned the vehicle around and stopped on the east shoulder of the northbound roadway. The driver stated that prior to the crash, he looked to his left and then proceeded through the intersection. His line of sight was not restricted at that time. He did not see V2 when he proceeded through the intersection. The vehicle was not towed due to damage. There were no injuries reported by the driver of V1. Police Reported Travel Speed is 5 kmph for V1 and 5 kmph for V2.
V2, a 1996 Mazda Protégé 4 door sedan, was traveling eastbound approaching the intersection. The driver, a 26 year old male, slowed down to about 40-48 kmph (25-30 MPH) and then began to make a left turn to travel northbound to work. The left front of V2 was struck by the front of V1. The impact caused V2 to rotate counterclockwise and travel off the edge of the roadway in a southwesterly direction. The vehicle traveled off the roadway until it came to rest on the west shoulder of the southbound lane facing south. The driver stated that as he approached the intersection, he saw the driver of V1 looking to the east (left). The vehicle then proceeded into the intersection across his path. The driver of V2 stated that he was he was late for work and should have been to work 15 minutes prior to the crash. The vehicle was towed due to damage.