This 2-vehicle crash occurred on a 3-lane city street in the morning of a weekday. The conditions were dry, clear with daylight and minimal traffic. At the location of the crash, the roadway runs east and west with two eastbound lanes and one westbound lane. The westbound lane is wide enough (8 meters) for two vehicles to travel on but there are not lane markings for two lanes of travel. The roadway travels through a neighborhood and the speed limit is 35 mph.
V1, a 1999 Mitsubishi Diamante with one occupant, was traveling west on outside of the lane. V2, a 1992 Dodge 3500 Ram Van with four occupants, was traveling in the same direction on the inside lane. V2 was slightly ahead of V1 and made a right turn into a parking lot when it was struck on the right rear by the front of V1. V1 was towed due to damage but V2 was driven away. The driver of V2 was transported to a local trauma center where she was treated and released. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.
V1 was driven by a 31-year-old male who left his brother's home this morning to buy some antifreeze for his car. He planned to flush out his radiator before he and his brother were to fly to Florida later this afternoon. This driver currently lives 2 hours from the scene of the crash but is familiar with the area because he lived here for 20 years before moving. He slept at his brother's house last night and is currently on vacation from work.
He states he was driving west on a 3-lane city street (traveling about 35 mph) while there was a white van traveling in the same direction to his left. As he looked down at his climate control panel to adjust the fan speed, the van made a right turn in front of him. He reported that the van did not have a turn signal on when he struck it. This driver was not injured in the crash.
V2 was driven by 41-year-old female driver that works for a taxi service Monday through Friday, six hours per day. She drives a Dodge 350 passenger van. She reports to be in good health, does not take any medication and has good vision.
This morning she drove the same she route she always drives and completed three deliveries before making this fourth stop. She had picked up a couple senior citizens and was dropping them off at a retirement home. As she approached the retirement home entrance, she turned on her right-turn signal, slowed down to 0-5 mph, and turned right into the parking lot. She was immediately struck in the right rear by vehicle (V1) she never saw. The impact caused her van to rotate almost 90 degrees and come to final rest with the rear of the bus partially in the road and the front in the driveway. The crash caused her to strain her neck and she was treated and released from a local trauma center.
She said she was not distracted or inattentive before the crash and had never saw V1 until it struck her. She said that V1's driver apologized to her for causing the crash.