An intersection related crash involving two vehicles occurred on a clear hot summer evening. The roadway was dark but lighted and the posted speed limit for both vehicles was 64 kmph (40 mph).
Vehicle one (V1) is a 1990 red Acura Integra 2 door occupied only by the 24-year-old male driver. The driver of V1 was traveling south in the second lane of a 5 lane undivided roadway approaching a 4 leg traffic signal controlled intersection. V1 was traveling at a driver reported speed of about 64-80 kmph (40-45 mph) before the crash. As V1 entered the intersection, it's front impacted with the front of vehicle two (V2). V1 stopped at impact and came to final rest facing south in the middle of the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
Vehicle two (V2) is a 2001 silver Honda Civic LX 4 door occupied only by the 48-year-old female driver. The driver of V2 was traveling north in the third lane with intentions of turning left at the intersection. The driver of V2 was traveling at a driver reported speed of about 32 kmph (20 mph) before the crash. The driver of V2 was following another vehicle. As V2 turned left at the intersection it was impacted on the front end by the front of V1. V2 came to rest in the intersection facing northwest, slightly south of impact. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage. The driver of V2 was transported to the hospital with minor injuries.
The driver of V1 was a young male driver who had just spent most of the evening getting the last details out of the way for his upcoming wedding that would take place the following week. The driver of V1 left his parents house 5 minutes before the crash took place. The driver was traveling 80 kmph (45 mph) before the intersection, and slowed down to 64 kmph (40 mph) as he approached the intersection. At the time of the crash the driver of V1 was thinking about the bachelor party the next evening and not paying attention to the surrounding traffic. The only reason the driver slowed down was due to the fact the middle of the intersection has a slight rise and a vehicle can fly over the top of the rise and bottom out if going too fast. The driver of V1 did not notice V2 turning left in front of him.
The driver of V2 was on vacation from another state, and had been in the city for a week and was due to go home the next day. The driver was a middle age female who was staying at her boyfriend's sister's house and rarely drives this roadway. Before the crash, the driver of V2 spent the last 2 and 1/2 hours drinking at a bar. She stated that she might be tired but only had 2 drinks. The driver was traveling north in the turn lane going about 32 kmph (20 mph). The driver stated that she was following another vehicle through the intersection and was focusing on the rear of the other vehicle and not any on coming traffic. The driver of V2 was surprised by the lights of V1 and had no avoidance maneuvers. A witness at the scene stated the he saw no other vehicle ahead of V2 as it turned left.