The crash occurred on a two-lane, north/south, rural, residential roadway in the early morning hours on a weekend. The road begins 0.4km (¼ mile) north of the crash site where it intersects a five-lane highway. The lane widths are 2.8m and the road is bordered by a tree line on the west and a sidewalk just off the east side of the road. Conditions were dark and wet with moderate rain falling. Earlier the previous day freezing rain, sleet, and ice had fallen but had ended approximately 12 hours prior to crash. Air temperature at the time was 39F degrees and investigators didn't detect any ice, however due to the rain the coefficient of friction on the road was low. The road as it travels southward makes a slight “S”curve. Initially, the road makes a minor curve to the right with 0.8% right superelevation. As traffic exits the right curve and enters a sharper curve to the left the road begins a positive grade and 4.4% superelevation to the left. When vehicles exit the left curve the road's superelevation slopes again to the right at 2.3% and continues its slight positive grade before straightening. The radius of curvature on the left curve was 132.7m which was well within AASHTO specifications for its posted speed of 48kph (30mph). Based on evidence at the scene there have been several crashes at the location, but most seem to occur to northbound vehicles departing the west side of the road.
Vehicle #1 was a 1999 Volkswagen Beetle traveling southbound. The driver apparently lost control near the apex of the curve to the left. The vehicle crossed into the northbound lanes and departed the east (left) edge of the road near the point where the road begins to straighten. The driver then over-corrected and began a clockwise rotation, crossing both travel lanes and departing the west (right) side of the road. Vehicle #1 struck a large tree with its left side in the driver door area. The tree had a diameter of 42cm and its center was 1.2m off the west side of the road. The Volkswagen came to rest at impact against the tree facing southwest just off the edge of the road. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1.
The driver of Vehicle #1 was a 17-year-old female who died the next day due to her injuries. She was belted with deployed frontal and side airbags. The side airbag deployed from the left seat back and was designed to protect only the thorax. It appeared that contact was made with the tree in the left door area at such an angle where neither of the airbags could provide much additional protection. An off-duty officer drove up on the crash site, stopped and notified emergency agencies. It's unknown how long after the crash he passed by, but based on traffic patterns it was unlikely more than a few minutes. Blood tests were not received prior to case submission but the off-duty officer along with rescue personnel didn't detect the presence of alcohol. The driver was reportedly on her way to a friend's house after an evening of babysitting when she crashed.