A two-vehicle crash occurred in the early afternoon hours on a two-lane, undivided roadway in an urban area of the city on a weekday. The roadway runs north and south and has one through lane for each direction but there is an additional southbound turn-lane for a PVA located near the location of the crash. The speed limit on the road is 56 kmph (35 mph).
Vehicle 1, a 1998 Mobile Street Sweeper, was traveling north at 3 mph while cleaning the street. Vehicle 2, a 2005 Chevrolet Cavalier, was also traveling north behind Vehicle 1 at approximately 20 mph. Vehicle 1's cleaning activity created a dust cloud and caused low visibility for traffic around him. Vehicle 2 drove through the cloud of dust and struck the back of V1. Both vehicles came to rest in their lane at the point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.
Vehicle 1 was equipped with two driver seats (right and left side) with this driver was positioned in the right seat. The driver was not injured in the crash and his vehicle was not towed.
Vehicle 2 was equipped with driver and passenger side air bags that deployed because of the crash. The driver (the sole occupant) was transported to a local trauma center for minor injuries. The vehicle was towed due to damage.
The driver of Vehicle 1 was a 27-year old male who works 40 hours per week, Monday through Friday for one employer. He has worked for the city driving a street sweeper for three years and cleans this road once every couple of months. He sleeps a normal schedule of 7 hours per night and feels rested after every sleep so fatigue was not considered a factor. He is in good health, does not take any drugs, and has normal vision without the aid of corrective lenses. He reports that he was looking at the road he was cleaning and the traffic ahead him during his routine and believed V2 was trying to pass him but returned to her lane because a tractor-trailer was traveling in the opposite lane. He never saw V2 before the impact but did hear tires squealing seconds before the crash.
The driver of Vehicle 2 was a 30-year old female that also works a normal 40-hour job, Monday through Friday. She is allowed a one-hour lunch break that she can take between the hours of 1200 and 1400. She usually takes her break from 1200 to 1300 hours, however she took her break at 1300 hours this day for an undisclosed reason. She was returning back to work at the time of the crash but reported that she was not in hurry. Her job was only 2 miles from the crash site. She claimed she never saw the Street Sweeper until she struck it and reports she did not brake prior to the impact. However, a scene inspection found tire impressions in her lane that do indicate braking before the impact.
A cab driver, which was pumping gas near the crash, witnessed the crash and confirmed the Street Sweeper created “the biggest dust storm” she had ever seen. She could not confirm whether V2 tried to pass V1 because visibility was low.
A background check of both drivers' crash history discovered the driver of V2 was never involved in a crash before this one and V1's driver was involved in only one crash prior to this crash. Coincidentally, V1's crash was exactly 12 months earlier and on the same road near the same area as this crash.