This is a single vehicle crash ran off the left side of the roadway rollover that occurred on a two way, two lane, divided interstate asphalt roadway. There are two westbound and two southbound lanes that are separated by a depresses dirt median. The rollover occurred during dawn hours, There were no roadway deficiencies and no sight line restrictions noted at the scene. The were no apparent adverse weather conditions . The speed limit on the roadway is posted 121 kmph (75 MPH).
V-1, a 2005 Dodge Neon, driven by a 38 year-old male with two passengers was traveling westbound in the number one lane to the rear of a non contact vehicle (Operated by Witness 1) when the vehicle changed to the number two lane and began to pass the witness vehicle. The vehicle then departed the number two lane and gradually departed the left side of the roadway. The driver then apparently steered the vehicle to the right causing the vehicle to rotate counterclockwise when it began to re-enter the number two westbound lane. The vehicle then tripped and began to roll to it's left laterally in the number two lane for 6 quarter turns until it began to slide on it's top in a northwesterly direction until it came to rest in the right shoulder on it's top facing in a northeasterly direction. The right front passenger, a 22 year old female, and the middle rear passenger, a 2 year old male, were ejected during the roll and were later pronounced deceased as a result of injuries sustained during the crash. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
A witness at the scene stated that he was traveling westbound in the number one lane to the front of V-1. V-1 then changed to the left and traveled off the left side of the roadway. The vehicle traveled back into the number two lane when it began to roll. W-1 stated that the vehicle rolled in the number two lane until it traveled in the number two to the front of his vehicle. The driver stated that he was traveling about 121 kmph (75 mph) when V-1 passes him in the number two lane.