This single vehicle crash occurred in the morning of a weekday on a 2-lane highway entrance ramp. The roadway connects a north/south intrastate highway to an east/west interstate highway and the speed limit remains the same throughout its path at 105 kmph (65 mph). The weather conditions were cloudy, and dry with daytime lighting. The road was flat and curved to the right at the location of the critical crash sequence.
V1, a 1996 Dodge Caravan with one occupant, was traveling east in lane 2 when it departed the left side of the roadway, entered a grass median, overcorrected its path, re-entered the roadway, crossed both lanes and struck a guardrail on the right roadside. V1 came to final rest partially in lane one and partially on the shoulder, facing the northeast direction. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1.
V1 was driven by a 48-year-old female that works as a home health care physician. She reportedly did not have any health related factors; however, she wears eyeglasses for a far-sighted condition. She left her job this morning and was returning home when this crash occurred. As she was negotiating a curve on a highway entrance ramp, she noticed a flowerbed to her left and began to stare at it. While her attention was focused on the flowers, her vehicle began to drift off the left side of the roadway. Once she realized she had driven off the road, she immediately steered right and applied the brakes but she overcompensated her recovery effort and lost control of her van. She spun across both lanes of the 2-lane ramp, departed the right side of the roadway, and struck a guardrail with the front of her vehicle. She was not injured in the crash but her vehicle was towed due to damage.
Upon arrival at the scene, the driver was sitting in the tropper's vehicle and I was able to speak with a friend of the driver that was there to driver her home. While speaking with driver's friend, she mentioned that the driver told her she "fell asleep or something." The trooper told me that when he arrived on the scene he could hear gospel musice blaring from the minivan and she was quoting verses from the bible.