This four-vehicle crash occurred in a five-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. Both approach roadways are one-way, straight and consist of three lanes. The southbound travel lanes have an uphill grade and the eastbound travel lanes have a downhill grade. The speed limit for these roadways is 48 kmph (30 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1991 Oldsmobile Cutlass, was southbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Jeep Grand Cherokee, was stopped eastbound in lane three and vehicle three (V3), a 2004 Mazda 6, was stopped eastbound in lane two. Vehicle four (V4), a 1999 Chevrolet Malibu, was parked in the right parking lane east of the intersection. V1, V2 and V3 entered the intersection. The right side of V1 was struck by the front of V2 and then the front of V3. V1 then rotated clockwise, moved to the southeast and the left side struck the left side of V4. V1 came to rest facing southwest in the eastbound lane one north of the intersection. V1 and V3 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a twenty-eight-year-old female, was traveling with two passengers, from a florist to another florist. She was well rested, healthy and comfortable with her passengers but this was the first time she had driven this vehicle. This driver was thinking about the flowers she needed for a wedding the next day and was in a hurry to get to the florist before they closed. Just prior to the crash, she was looking around inside her vehicle to locate an unusual smell in the vehicle.
The driver of V2, a thirty-eight-year-old male, was on his way from a job site back to his workplace. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle and route. This driver stated that he was stopped for a red signal and started into the intersection when it turned green. He further stated that he applied the brakes when he saw V1 coming through the intersection.
The driver of V3, a fifty-seven-year-old female, was on her way home from work. She was well rested, healthy and familiar with her vehicle and route.