V1, a 1995 Chevrolet Lumina APV minivan, was making a boulevard turn from lane 4 of a westbound, 2 lane, and bituminous roadway with 2 left hand turn lanes to cross 2 one-way eastbound lanes of a 4 lane boulevard. V2, a 2000 International medium/heavy refrigerated, straight truck, was eastbound in lane 2 of the 2 eastbound lanes of the same boulevard. V1 rolled the stop sign and began to cross the eastbound lanes when the driver of v1 noticed that traffic was backed up across the boulevard. She hesitated in the intersection instead of proceeding across. V2 saw v1 enter his lane from his left, steered right and braked. V2, front, contacted v1, right, causing it to rotate clockwise and slide to a stop on the grass on the southeast corner of the intersection facing west. V2 rolled onto it's left side and slid to a stop on the southeast corner facing south. At the time of the crash the roadways were dry and it was daylight. V1 and v2 were towed due to damage. All three occupants of v1 were injured and transported. The driver of v2 was uninjured.
A complete driver interview and vehicle inspection was obtained for v1. The Pre-event movement of v1 was stopped in traffic lane, the Critical pre-crash event was crossing over (passing through) intersection and the Critical reason for critical pre-crash event was the driver's inadequate surveillance. Some factors contributing to the crash include the driver's failure to come to a complete stop and look to the right before crossing the eastbound lanes, her view of the eastbound lanes being blocked by trees in the median of the boulevard as she approached the stop sign, conversing with other passengers while attempting the turn and fatigue from moving/packing just before running the errand. She had also had her sleep interrupted the night before by pain so had not completed a night of uninterrupted sleep. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
A complete driver interview and vehicle inspection was obtained for v2. The driver was found to be properly licensed for and familiar with both the vehicle and the roadway. The vehicle was properly loaded and not overweight. He was not exceeding the speed limit. The Pre-event movement of v2 was going straight, the Critical pre-crash event was Other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path and the Critical reason for critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.