This crash occurred at an intersection of two 2-lane undivided roadways. The north/south lanes had a stop sign. The speed was posted at 40 kmph (25 mph). Both roadways were level. The crash occurred on a weekday evening around dusk. There were no adverse weather conditions.
A 14 year-old male drove V1, a 1991 Chevrolet Astro van. The driver was not of driving age and had been diagnosed with Asperger's syndrome (a form of autism). The boy stated that he just wanted to go for a ride. His mother gave most of the interview. She stated that her son has wanted to drive ever since his older sister went through driver's training. The boy asked again and again when it was his turn to learn to drive. The mother stated that he was upset earlier that evening at his grandmother's house because there was no jelly in her home so he wanted to go to the store to buy some. The mother reported that they hid the vehicle keys in a fruit bowl on top of the refrigerator. The mother and grandmother got his mind off the keys by telling him that his aunt wrote a letter and had asked about him, so he started looking for the letter but instead found the keys. The mother stated that he went out the door without saying anything. She stated that a friend came over and told her that the van was gone. Then a neighbor came over and stated that the mother needed to come to the end of the street. There they found the van up against a house at the corner of the intersecting street, with the driver standing next to it. The driver had turned the corner at the intersection, drove over the curb, struck a speed limit sign, then a fence before striking a house at final rest. The driver was transported to the local hospital for head and back pain. The vehicle was towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
The driver was said to be in good health and did not wear glasses, He took medications for his diagnosed problem. He stated that he drove to the corner, stopped and then turned on the turn signal like his mother does when she drives. He stated he started around the corner and the vehicle did not go straight after the turn.