This three-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of a four-way intersection, which was controlled by traffic signals in all directions. The east/west roadway consisted of 5 lanes at the intersection, whereas the north/south roadway consisted of six lanes at the southern end and five lanes at the northern end. The grade for all vehicles involved was level except for vehicle one which was slightly downhill. The posted speed limit for the east/west roadway was 64kph (40mph) and the posted speed limit for the north/south roadway was 72kph (45mph). The incident occurred during daylight hours during a moderate rainfall.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 black Chevrolet Malibu, was traveling east at approximately 16kph (10mph) intending to make a left at an intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 black Acura 3.5RL, was traveling west at approximately 64kph (40mph), intending to continue through the intersection. Vehicle three (V3), a 2005 red Honda Civic, was stopped at a traffic light in the southbound lanes. As V1 attempted to make the left at the intersection, the front of V2 struck the right front of V1. The impact caused V1 to spin counter-clockwise in a backwards motion approximately 270 degrees. Vehicle two continued forward and to the right, and ultimately struck the left front of V3 before coming to final rest. Vehicle three was pushed slightly to the right before coming to final rest. All three vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.
The driver of V3 did not suffer any injuries as a result of the crash. An interview could not be obtained from this driver, however the role of this driver was that of an innocent bystander. No Critical Precrash Event, nor a reason for such, was coded to this vehicle since it was not involved in the first harmful event.
NOTE:
It should be noted that although the driver of V1 claimed a roadway grade that prevented him from seeing the other vehicle in time, it is the opinion of the researcher that there was not a significant grade for vehicle two, which would have caused this.