This three-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of a five-lane divided roadway and a three-lane divided roadway. The five-lane road is straight and level with a speed limit of 72 kph (45 mph). The three-lane road is straight and level with a speed limit of 56 kph (72 kph). This intersection is controlled by a traffic signal that was functioning properly at the time of the crash. This crash occurred during daylight hours with cloudy conditions. Vehicle 1 was traveling west, in lane 3 of a level, concrete divided roadway.
Vehicle one, a 1994 Buick Regal was westbound in the third lane. Vehicle two, a 2005 Chevrolet Pickup was eastbound in the first lane. Vehicle three, a 1995 Honda Accord was stopped facing northbound in the first lane. Vehicle one turned left at the intersection and the front of vehicle one impacted the front of vehicle two. Vehicle two deflected to its right and the front of vehicle two impacted the front of vehicle three. Vehicle two then impacted a light pole with its front plane. Vehicle one and two were towed due to damage. Vehicle three was not towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of vehicle one, a forty-year-old female was heading to a doctor's appointment at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about fifteen minutes at the time of the crash. This driver has been diagnosed as Bi-Polar and is taking Verapamil SR, Stattera, Trileptal, Nevirapine and Gabitril as medications. This driver indicated that she did not see the other vehicle at all. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.
The driver of vehicle two, a twenty-five year old male was heading to work from the store at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about fifteen minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that he was about 100 feet from the intersection when vehicle one just turned. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.
The driver of vehicle three, a twenty-four year old male was heading to the store from work at the time of crash. This driver had been driving for about five minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated he was watching vehicle one at the before the crash but did not see the crash occur. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.