This two-vehicle crash occurred at dawn on a cloudy morning on a westbound, expressway consisting of four-lanes with paved shoulders bordering the travel lanes and a short concrete jersey barrier adjacent to the left shoulder separating the four westbound lanes from eastbound traffic. To the right of the roadway was an uphill grassy roadside. Prior to the crash area, there was an exit ramp, but this did not play a role in the crash. The eastbound section of the expressway did not play a role either. The roadway was dry, straight, level, of concrete construction, and had a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph).
Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Chevrolet Cavalier four door carrying three occupants, was traveling westbound in the third lane. The V1 driver stated that he swerved to his right into the #2 lane to avoid a large semi-truck in the #4 lane that had encroached into his lane and the front of V1 struck the rear of V2. After this impact, V1 was redirected on a northwest trajectory and entered a clockwise rotation, applied left steering correction, departed the right side of the roadway in a counterclockwise rotation as it entered the grassy roadside, and struck a wooden sign post with the right rear bumper corner. V1 came to rest partially on the right shoulder and partially on the grassy roadside facing generally south. V1 was towed due to damage but the driver and occupants were not injured or transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Ford F-250 pickup with work box bed and storage racks carrying one occupant, was traveling westbound in the first lane. After the impact with V1 the V2 driver stated that he was able to maintain control and pulled off onto the right shoulder. V2 was not towed and the driver was not injured or transported. The V2 driver stated that as he had been traveling approximately 89 kmph (55 mph) in the #1 lane, had checked his mirrors and then merged into the #2 lane approximately 2 to 3 seconds before his vehicle was struck in the back by V1.