This is a two-vehicle intersection crash that occurred during the dawn hour on a four-way intersection. The intersection is controlled by stop signs for westbound and eastbound traffic. There is one westbound and one eastbound lane that are separated by left turn lane at the intersection. There is one northbound and one southbound lane that are separated by a left turn lane at the intersection. There are dedicated right turn lanes for north and southbound traffic at the intersection. The speed limit on both roadways is posted 93 kmph (50 mph). The roadways are constructed of asphalt that was dry at the time of the crash. There no sight line restrictions and no obstructions noted at the scene. There were also no environmental factors that contributed to this crash.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Ford Expedition, was traveling eastbound approaching the intersection. The vehicle stopped for the stop sign and traveled through the intersection across the path of northbound vehicle two (V2). The right rear area was struck by the front of V2. The impact caused V1 to rotate clockwise and rollover onto left side. The vehicle came to rest on its left side facing in an easterly direction. The driver of V1, a 37-year-old male, stated that he stopped at the intersection and saw V2 approaching traveling northbound. He then proceeded through the intersection and realized that he miscalculated the other cars speed. He then accelerated and steered his vehicle to the left to avoid the crash. The vehicle was towed due to damage and the driver transported to a local medical facility. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.
Vehicle two (V2), 1996 Chevrolet Lumina 4 door sedan, was traveling northbound at approximately 83 kmph (52 mph). The vehicle skidded for approximately 13 meters (43 feet) before it struck the right rear area of V1. V2 came to rest on the east shoulder to the north of the intersection. The driver of V2, a 46 year-old male, stated that he saw V1 approaching the intersection. The right front passenger, a 49-year-old female, then said something and he looked at her. The right front passenger then said "He ran the stop sign". The driver then looked up and saw V1 in the path of his vehicle. The driver then locked his brakes up and let off the brakes and steered to this left when he realized he was going to hit -1. The vehicle was towed due to damage the driver and passenger were transported to a local medical facility.