The crash occurred at 4-way intersection controlled by a traffic light. The east/west roadway was a two-lane undivided roadway. The southern leg of the intersection was a two-way, five-lane, undivided roadway. The northern leg of the intersection was a two-way, six-lane roadway, divided by a concrete curbed median. These were straight, level, bituminous roads with an east/west posted speed of 48 kmph (30 mph), and a north/south posted speed of 64 kmph (40 mph). Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon with dry roads and cloudy skies. Traffic flow was normal.
V1, a 1991 Toyota Previa with two occupants, was traveling eastbound in lane one. V2, a 1995 Ford F150 with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane one. Both vehicles were approaching the same intersection. Just south of the intersection, a city bus was letting passengers off at a bus stop, in lane one. V2 observed the stopped bus ahead, and began to change lanes into lane two. V1 was attempting to turn left. As the two vehicles entered the intersection, the front of V1 made contact with the left side of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.
V1, the Toyota Previa, was driven by a 37-year old female who was transported to the hospital with possible injuries. A partial interview was obtained from her passenger, who stated that they were traveling east. Another vehicle was driving in front of them. The passenger said that as they approached the intersection, the light was green, so they did not have to stop. The vehicle in front of them went through the intersection. As they followed behind, they were struck by V2.
V2, the Ford F150, was driven by a 41-year old male who reported no injuries. He stated that he had just picked up a part from a home improvement store, and was on his way home. He was in the far right lane when he saw a bus stopped in his lane, on the other side of the intersection, about half of a block away. He decided to change lanes before he got into the intersection, so that he could go around the bus. He said that his light was green, and that the minivan had the red light. He said that just as he was about to enter the intersection (still in the process of changing lanes), a vehicle turned in front of him, with V2 following right behind. He believed that the driver of V2 saw the vehicle in front of her go, and didn't pay attention to the light.
There were no independent witnesses to the crash, and both drivers had conflicting accounts of the crash events. An analysis of the damage to both vehicles revealed that V2 was traveling at a higher rate of speed than V1, and that V1 had very little speed as it entered the intersection. Due to the low travel speed of V1 and the higher speed of V2, it was believed that the driver of V2 went through a red light. It was also thought that the driver of V2 was partially distracted by the bus up ahead.