The crash occurred on the east side of the southbound lanes of an interstate ramp leading from a north/south interstate to the westbound lanes of an east/west interstate. The two-lane ramp curved to the right. The roadway had a grade of -2% 70 meters north of left roadside departure and a super elevation at the same point of +1% to the left (east). At 18 meters north of roadside departure there was a grade of -4% and at the road departure point the embankment just 8 meters north of impact#1 had a grade of -12.5%. The ramp had paved shoulders on either side and a steel guardrail on the left side. Nine meters east of the roadway was a concrete drainage ditch that ran into a concrete drain that ended approximately 6 meters south of the north end of the guardrail. The crash occurred in late afternoon on a weekend under daylight and dry conditions. The posted speed limit was 89kph/55mph.
Vehicle #1 was a 2003 GMC Envoy and was traveling southbound in the left lane on the ramp when a non-contact vehicle changed lanes in front of it. Vehicle #1 steered to the right to go around it and over-steered in the process. Vehicle #1 then steered left to compensate for its previous error and overcorrected. Vehicle #1 skidded off the left side of the road and started down an embankment striking the end of a guardrail with the right side of the vehicle. It continued down the embankment until it reached the bottom where the left front wheel stuck the end of the concrete drain and blew the left front tire out. Vehicle #1 then started up the opposing embankment (grade +27%) heading southeast and struck a small tree, running over it with the front of the vehicle. The Envoy (V1) subsequently veered right (southwest) coming back down the embankment and striking a second small tree breaking it off and coming to rest on top of the stump 42 meters south of roadway departure facing south. The vehicle was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
Vehicle #1 was driven by a 21-year old male that was belted but the frontal airbag did not deploy. The driver was uninjured. The researcher requested permission for a follow up inspection to read the EDR but was denied as the vehicle was to be towed out of town that same day. The driver told the researcher that he was cut off by the non-contact vehicle however in a statement to the police he said was trying to pass the other vehicle. The driver was charged with careless driving.