This is a two vehicle fatal crash that occurred in the number two northbound lane of a two-way, five-lane, dry asphalt roadway. The roadway consists of two southbound and two northbound lanes that are separated by a continuous left turn lane. The crash in the early afternoon during daylight hours. There were no roadway deficiencies and no sight line restrictions noted at the scene. The speed limit on the roadway is posted 72 kmph (45 MPH)
Vehicle one (V1), a 1972 Jeep, was traveling southbound in the number two lane when the driver saw vehicle two V2) approaching northbound with it's lights and sirens activated. The driver lost control of the vehicle, which caused it to rotate clockwise. The vehicle departed the #2 southbound lane in a southeasterly direction while continuing to rotate clockwise and eventually departing the left turn lane. V1 back plane then impacted with the left side of V2. The impact caused V1 to travel in a northwesterly direction, ignite and catch fire. The vehicle caught fire and the driver was unable to exit the vehicle. The vehicle came to rest partially in the northbound #2 lane and the left turn facing in a northwesterly direction. The driver, a 27 year old male, was pronounced deceased at the scene. The source of the ignition apparently was the modified gas tank at the rear of the vehicle. An autopsy blood test was conducted on the driver during a medical examination approximately 4 days and 30 minutes later that showed that the driver had an alcohol concentration of .19%. It could not be determined what type of restraint was in the vehicle and if the driver was using a restraint at the time of the crash due to the severity of the fire damage. The vehicle was towed due to damage. The cause of death was noted at the 4th degree thermal burns. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.
Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Ford F350 DRW 4X2, was traveling northbound in the number two lane with its lights and sirens activated. The driver of V-2, a 32-year old male, stated that traffic was yielding to his vehicle prior to the crash. The driver stated that he saw V-1 traveling southbound in the number two lane as he approached the area of the crash and that traffic was stopped in the #1 and# 2 southbound lanes in front of V-2. V-2 then began to swerve, rotated and traveled into his lane of travel. The driver of V-2 stated that V-1 rotated so severe that he thought it was going to over turn and miss striking the vehicle he was driving. V-2 struck V-1 and then caught fire. V-2 came to a controlled rest at the east edge of the roadway facing north. V-2 also caught on fire after the impact and was extinguished by the driver and the occupants. The right front passenger, a 29-year old male, and the rear passenger, an 18-year old male, also occupied V-2. The occupants of V-2 were transported to the hospital by EMS. The driver sustained abrasions to his legs. The driver was wearing a lap and shoulder and was treated and released from the hospital. The right front passenger was wearing a lap and shoulder restraint and complained of pain to his neck and head. The rear passenger was wearing a lap belt and also complained of pain to his head and neck. The vehicle was towed due to damage.