This crash occurred on a weekday morning during daylight hours involving two passenger cars at an urban intersection with traffic lights. The speed limit for the roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph) for the east/west travel lanes. It is 48 kmph (30 mph) for the southbound travel lanes. The divided five-lane north/south roadway is comprised of 3 southbound concrete lanes; the two northbound lanes are a bridge overpass above the intersection. The east/west roadway is divided and comprised of six total lanes with the eastbound direction being a 3-lane concrete roadway at the approach to the intersection. The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 BMW 528-i, was traveling south in the second lane, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Isuzu Rodeo, was traveling east in the second lane. After both vehicles entered the intersection, the front of V1 impacted with the left side of V2. V2 then continued forward and rotated counter clockwise. It rolled over with its right side leading and after four quarter-turns the vehicle came to rest on its wheels in the eastbound lanes. After the first impact V1 rotated counter clockwise and came to rest within the intersection. The front airbags of V1 did not deploy during the crash event and neither did V2 's airbags. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. The driver of V2 was transported to a medical facility with visible injuries and released. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
A witness at the scene was driving in the lane next to V2 at the previous intersection. He described the driver of V2 was driving in a very aggressive mode. At the previous intersection, V2 sped up his engine ("gunning" it up). The driver acted very strange according to the witness. The witness felt the driver was in a hurry. When the light at the previous intersection turned green, V2 proceeded with screeching tires and drove to the crash site with high speed. The witness was not 100% sure if he saw V2 run the red light, but he saw the vehicle driving erratically with very high speed. He was sure V2 rolled over twice. The witness was about 200 meters (656 feet) away from the crash site at the time the crash occurred. According to the police report there were other witnesses at the scene of the crash that supported V2 running the red light. The police report considered "disregard stop and go signal" in addition to the driver being unlicensed as contributing factors to this crash. An additional factor includes this driver being in a hurry to make a job interview appointment. The driver of V2 was an unlicensed driver.