This crash occurred on a five-lane (two-way, with a turning lane) asphalt roadway. The intersection was controlled by a red, yellow, green traffic signal that was working properly. This intersection is a sag that has a -1.2% grade approaching the level intersection. At the time of the crash it was daylight, raining and foggy. The north-south roadway has a posted 80 kmph (50mph) speed limit.
Vehicle #1 a 1996 Chrysler Town and Country minivan was stopped headed eastbound at the traffic signal waiting for traffic to clear to her left so that she could complete a right turn and continue south. Vehicle #2 a two door 1995 Chevrolet Berretta was traveling southbound in the number-two lane approaching the same traffic signal, when she observed Vehicle #1 pull-away from the signal and enter the travel lane in front of her. The driver of vehicle #2 stated that she tried some evasive maneuvers by applying her brakes and steering towards the left, but was unable to avoid a collision. The driver of vehicle #1 was unaware of the imminent collision and was unable to perform any evasive maneuvers. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The right front of vehicle #2 contacted the left font of vehicle #1. Both vehicles came to rest in the right lane of the southbound direction. The driver of vehicle #2 was transported to a local hospital by EMS for treatment of minor injuries, and the occupants of vehicle #1 were uninjured.
Vehicle #1 (Town and Country minivan) was driven by a pregnant 25 year old woman in her third trimester, who stated that she was stopped at the stop light for 1-2 seconds waiting for traffic to clear. She stated that there were vehicles turning right from the south bound right lane. She stated that she was talking to one of her daughters in the second row about what type of cupcakes to make for an upcoming birthday party, when she looked towards the south bound direction, and never saw the other vehicle approaching. She stated that she turned right on a red light and pulled into the left lane.
Vehicle #2 (Chevrolet Beretta) was driven by a 34 year-old woman, who was headed south in the left lane approaching with the right-of-way, the same controlled intersection. The driver stated that she was headed to drop off donations at a local “Goodwill”, and was not in a hurry. She stated that she was able to apply brakes and steer into the turning lane, but still struck the other vehicle. She was transported to the hospital due to neck pain.