This crash occurred in an intersection with two-lanes two-way north/south and two-lanes two-way East/West. The crash occurred in the south and west lanes. V1 had a positive slope to the intersection with a stop sign. V2 had a level grade with no control signal. The North/South lanes had a posted speed of 40kph (25mph) and the East/West lanes had a posted speed of 72kph (45mph). It was a clear/ Dry day and the crash happened in daylight hours.
V1 was a 1997 Ford Crown Victoria that was traveling south on the roadway and had just come to the stop sign. After stopping and looking right and then left V1 edged forward waiting for several vehicles to pass V1 started into the intersection making contact with the right side of V2 just behind the right front tire. Then turning off to the right coming to final rest across the East and West lanes at an angle. V1's driver and V2's driver then pushed V1 off the road so as to not block traffic. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2 a 1992 Pontiac Transport was traveling west on the roadway approaching the intersection. Noticing V1 was entering the intersection V2 braked and started to turn left to avoid making contact with V1. V2 was not able to avoid contact and rotated clockwise skidding off onto the south shoulder of the roadway to final rest.
V1 the Crown Victoria was driven by an 88 yr. Old male that was not injured in the crash. V1's driver stated he had stopped at the stop sign and waited for several vehicles to go by as he edged out into the intersection as another vehicle came by he did not see V2 coming and pulled into the path of the oncoming vehicle. The driver was seat-belted with lap and shoulder.
V2 was driven by a 20 yr. Old male that was not injured in the crash. The driver stated he was commuting to work at the time of the crash, he also stated he was in no hurry. He also stated he is in good health and had not taken any medications. The driver was seat-belted lap and shoulder.