The crash occurred mid afternoon on an urban, five lane, undivided east/west highway that is intersected by a four lane north/south road. The highway has two travel lanes and a left turn lane in each direction. Recent traffic counts indicate the highway carries 35,979 vehicles per day at the intersection. The intersection itself is straight, however the highway curves slightly to the north about 50m east of the intersection. The intersection is controlled by a traffic signal with a posted speed of 45mph (72kph). It was daylight and dry.
Vehicle one was a 2001 Saturn SL stopped south on the four-lane road in the far right lane intending to go straight through the intersection. Vehicle two, a 1990 Honda Accord, was traveling westbound on the five lane highway in the left lane, intending to go straight and continue westbound on the highway. Vehicle one was stopped for the traffic signal and when the light turned green vehicle one headed south across the intersection. Vehicle two passed through the intersection and struck vehicle one in the left front with its front right. Both vehicles came to rest in the eastbound left turn lane facing west. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
Vehicle one was driven by a sixteen-year-old female who was belted and transported to a local hospital with minor injuries. No critical reasons for the crash were associated with this vehicle, which was towed from the scene and had a CDC of 10LFEW2.
Vehicle two was driven by a nineteen-year-old female who was belted and also transported with minor injuries. She drove the road on a daily basis. She stated that she didn't notice that the light had turned red and when she applied the brakes the pedal felt “spongy”. Vehicle two skidded 11m prior to impact. She had only been driving the vehicle for one week prior to the crash, but hadn't reported any problems with the brake system. Police cited vehicle two's driver for disregarding a red light.
Based on the interview it appears that the critical reason for the crash was driver of vehicle two, who was inattentive for an unknown reason and failed to see the light change to red. Other associated factors include, inadequate surveillance (failed to look far enough ahead) and inexperience with this particular vehicle. The vehicle was driven from the scene with a CDC of 01FREW1.