This crash occurred at the intersection of a five lane, two-way, east/west road and a three lane, one-way northbound roadway. All lanes were dry, level and asphalt (with the east/west roads having recently been repaved). The intersection was controlled by a four-way traffic light without a pedestrian signal. The northbound speed was posted at 56kmph (35mph) while the east/west lanes were posted at 72 kmph (45mph). It was a cloudy week day afternoon.
V1, a 1997 Chevy Cavalier, was traveling north in lane two. V2, a 2000 Chevy Malibu, was traveling east in lane one. As V1 entered the intersection V2 front contacted V1 left Side. V1 continued forward and where it contacted a utility pole on the northwest corner of the intersection where it came to final rest. V2 rotated counter-clockwise coming to final rest facing west in the middle of the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1 was driven by a 39 year-old female who was very fatigued, but claimed to be in good health despite haven been diagnosed with a heart murmur. She works 3rd shift and ran a few errands after work but was now on her way home. She stated that as she approached the intersection she looked up at the light she saw it was green so she proceeded on. As she entered the intersection and crossed lane one of the eastbound traffic she noted a vehicle coming east and did not look as if it was going to stop. She had no time to react as her vehicle was contacted on the left side. She then continued forward and hit the utility pole on the northwest corner. This driver was transported to a local ER unit to be treated for injuries. V1 was towed due to damage.
V2 was driven by a 22 year-old female who was rest and in good health. She stated that she had just left her fathers home and was running a few errands before returning home to get ready for work. She stated that she was traveling east in lane one and had a green light as she approached the intersection. At the last minute she saw a vehicle traveling north entering the intersection. She stated she applied her brakes and steered left. Her vehicle contacted the left side of the other vehicle. She stated the northbound vehicle rotated sliding sideway and went off to the northwest corner. She stated her vehicle rotated around and came to rest in the intersection. She her 1 year-old child in the back seat, but neither occupant was injured. The vehicle was towed due to damage.
A witness stated that he was traveling west on the roadway and saw the northbound vehicle coming into the intersection. He stated the light was green for him and the eastbound vehicle. He also stated that if he had not stopped where he did V2 would have hit him.