The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. The north/south street was a two-way, four-lane, undivided roadway with a posted speed of 48 kmph (30 mph). The east/west street was a two-way, five-lane undivided roadway with a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). The intersection was controlled in all directions by a traffic control light. Conditions were daylight on a weekday evening with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.
V1 was a 2001 Ford Crown Victoria marked police car traveling southbound in lane two. V2, a 1994 Plymouth Voyager, was traveling eastbound in lane two. V3, a 1991 Honda Accord, was stopped at the traffic light, facing northbound, in lane two. All three vehicles were approaching the same intersection. Just as V1 got to the intersection, the driver activated his emergency lights and began to accelerate (in response to an emergency call). As V1 and V2 entered the intersection, the right side of V1 made contact with the front of V2. V1 continued in a southeast direction. The front of V1 then made contact with the front of V3, which was stopped at the traffic light. V1 continued southeast, leaving the roadway before making contact with a small signpost before coming to final rest. All three vehicles were towed due to damage. All drivers and occupants refused treatment. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.
V2, the Plymouth Voyager, was driven by a 21-year old male. He stated that he was on his way to the park for a picnic. He was focused on the traffic light ahead. The driver said that there were cars lined up in the left turn lane next to him, blocking his view of any traffic, which might have been coming southbound. However, the driver proceeded into the intersection, knowing that southbound traffic had a red light. The driver commented that although V1 activated his lights as he entered the intersection, he did not activate his siren (this was confirmed by a witness). The driver said that he hit his brakes, but there was nothing he could do, as he was already in the intersection.