This 2-vehicle crash occurred on a weekday afternoon at a 4-way intersection. The conditions were clear, dry and daylight. At the location of the crash, there is a westbound/eastbound city street intersecting with a northbound/southbound 5-lane thoroughfare. The westbound/eastbound road has a posted speed limit of 49 kmph (30 mph) and has a stop sign at the intersection. The northbound/southbound road has a 72 kmph (45 mph) speed limit and does not have a traffic signal or sign.
V1, a 2003 GMC Safari with one occupant, was traveling west and proceeded to pass through the intersection. V2, a 1997 Ford F-250 with one occupant, was traveling south toward the intersection. V1 and V2 both entered the intersection at the same time and V2's front contacted V1's right side. V2 left 16 meters of precrash skid marks before striking the right side of V1. Both vehicles came to final rest in southwest corner of the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.
V1 was driven by a 47-year-old male driver that works as a technician for a telephone/communications company. For this trip today, he was leaving one service call and traveling to another. He said he approached a stop sign, stopped for few a seconds, looked in both directions to make sure the traffic was clear and proceeded to cross over through the intersection. Once he entered the intersection, he barely saw a truck moving toward him from the right side so he accelerated in hope of avoiding the truck (V2). He said he never saw the truck before he entered the intersection because there was a real estate sign at the intersection obstructing his view. He also believes the truck (V2) must have been speeding because it suddenly appeared out of nowhere. He suffered minor back and neck pain and was treated and released from a local hospital.
V2 was driven by a 23-year-old male driver. For this trip today, he was traveling from one job site to another. He reportedly was traveling south at 72 kmph (45 mph) approaching the intersecting roadway when a van from his left pulled out in front of him. This driver stated that he never saw the van (V1) approach the intersection but admittedly was not looking at the side street for traffic. He said he locked-up his brakes once he saw the van in his lane but could not stop in time to avoid the crash. He did not suffer any injuries in the crash and went back to work after his employer arrived on the scene.