This two-vehicle crash occurred in the intersection of a 4-way signalized intersection. The intersection was controlled by pre-timed traffic signals with pedestrian crossings and a speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph) for all four directions. At the location of this crash, the eastbound roadway was a 3-lane divided road with a left-turn only lane at the intersection. The westbound roadway was a 4-lane roadway with left and right turn-only lanes at the intersection. The weather conditions were clear and sunny and it was the mid-afternoon of a weekday.
V1, a 1999 Dodge Caravan with two occupants, was traveling east approaching the intersection. V2, a 1998 Chrysler Town & Country with one occupant was traveling west approaching the same intersection. V1 entered the intersection and made a left turn. It was struck on the right side by the front of V2. Both vehicles came to rest in the northeast intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.
V1 was driven by a 14-year-old male driver who was a high school student on summer break and did not have a driver's license. He had only driven a vehicle once before. He took his mother's van this afternoon, without her permission, because his cousin needed a ride to work. He picked up his cousin from her home and began to drive to her job, which was 5 miles away. This driver stopped for a red light at a 4-way intersection and waited there for over 10 seconds before his signal turned green. Once his signal changed to green, he proceeded to enter the intersection to make a left turn. As he began to advance into the intersection, he saw an oncoming van (V2) approaching the intersection at a high rate of speed. This driver said he saw the face of the V2's driver and she had her head turned away from traffic. This driver decided he was committed to his turn so he accelerated his left turn, believing he could avoid V2. He was unable to avoid a collision and his vehicle was struck on the right front side by the front of V2. He was not injured but his cousin was transported to a hospital for minor injuries.
V2 was driven by a 59-year old female driver who was returning home after leaving work. She worked out of her district today because somebody called in sick. She reported that she was driving home this afternoon on a road she had never traveled before and was entering an intersection on a green signal. Once she entered the intersection, a minivan traveling in the opposite direction turned in front her. She tried to steer left and brake but there was not enough time to avoid a collision. The front of her minivan struck the right side of the other minivan in the middle of the intersection. She could not recall which lane she was in before the she entered the intersection but was certain that her light was green. She said the other vehicle never stopped before it made the left turn and that it did not have a turn signal on either. She was transported from the scene to a local trauma center for a broken bone in her smallest finger on her right hand. She also received bruises along the chest and waist from the lap and shoulder belt she was wearing.