The crash occurred on a median divided north/south rural highway with two travel lanes and shoulders in each direction. The road is straight with a 3% uphill grade. Just off the east edge of the road was a guardrail and a negative embankment ranging from 22% - 28%. A dense tree/brush line began 25m north of the beginning of the guardrail and 5m east of the pavement edge. Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight, dry, and cloudy at 1:08pm on a Monday afternoon. The posted speed was 89 KMPH (55mph) and traffic was light.
Vehicle one was a 1996 Dodge Ram 3500 club cab pickup traveling northbound on the highway. The driver drove off the right side of the road and struck a guardrail with the front of the pickup before going down an embankment and contacting a large tree with its front and some brush with its right side. The vehicle came to rest facing north against the tree/brush line. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1.
His physical condition was coded as an associated factor - he was a diabetic who suffered from sleep apnea, for which he was being treated with a C-PAP machine. He also had Hepatitis C and had a torn Achilles tendon. He claimed that he was on his way to the hospital for treatment of the tendon tear when the crash occurred; however, he was headed in the opposite direction of the hospital. He was wearing his prescription glasses at the time of the crash - they corrected a myopic (nearsighted) condition to a level of 20/20. He claimed he was familiar with both his vehicle and the roadway. He stated to the researcher that another (phantom) vehicle ran him off the road and that is how the crash occurred. Due to lack of evidence to support this claim (no impact to his vehicle from another vehicle) and the lack of any skid marks led to dismissal of this claim. It was believed that the driver of the Dodge passed out at the wheel and relinquished control of his vehicle. It was believed that the blackout was caused by a combination of his medical conditions and his usage of many prescription medications, most of which had the possible side effects of dizziness and drowsiness.