The crash occurred in the southbound right lane of a north/south four-lane arterial road. There were two lanes northbound and two lanes southbound. The shoulders were paved, and the driveway and parking lot on the west side of the roadway had a -6% grade. The roadway is divided by a grass median with paved crossovers to allow access to either side of the roadway. The posted speed limit is 72kmph (45mph). The crash occurred in the late evening hours on a weekday. It was dark and unlit with no adverse weather conditions.
Vehicle 2, a 1989 Toyota Corolla, was traveling southbound in the right lane of the arterial roadway. Vehicle 1, a 1988 Ford F250 pickup, was turning left at a crossover from the northbound side of the arterial roadway across the southbound lanes intending to go into a private lot on the west side of the roadway. As Vehicle 1 crossed the southbound lanes it was impacted on the right side by the front of Vehicle 2. Vehicle 2 then pushed Vehicle 1 south and west approximately 10 meters, down the -6% grade and into an unpaved portion of the lot. Vehicle 1's left tires then tripped in the dirt and Vehicle 1 rolled one quarter turn onto its left side and came to rest about 18 meters southwest of point of impact with Vehicle 2's front coming to rest against Vehicle 1's undercarriage. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
Vehicle 1 was driven by a 36 year old unrestrained male who was on his way from work to have his truck looked at by a mechanic due to transmission trouble. There were no airbags available in Vehicle 1, and the driver was transported to a local trauma center where he was treated for non-incapacitating injuries.
Vehicle 2 was driven by a 38 year old female who was belted with no airbag available. She was transported to a local trauma center for treatment of non -incapacitating injuries. Nothing else is known about this driver, as after repeated attempts, the researcher was unable to contact the driver or any known relatives.