This two-vehicle crash occurred in the intersection of a one-way signalized intersection. The one-way road has two eastbound lanes with an additional left-turn only lane near the intersection. The intersecting roadway is a 2-lane road that runs north and south. The entire intersection is controlled by pre-timed signals with a pedestrian-actuated button. The eastbound-only road is straight and flat with a speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph).
V1, a 1999 Toyota 4-Runner, was traveling east in lane one and V2, a 1994 Dodge Dakota, was traveling in the same direction slightly behind V1 in lane 2. Once both vehicles entered the intersection, V1 attempted to turn left onto the intersecting road in front of V2, causing V2's front to collide with the left side of V1. Immediately following the impact, V1 rolled to its right 4-quarter turns and came to rest off the left side of the road. The driver of V2 was transported from the scene to a local trauma center for the minor injuries he received. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.
V1 was driven by a 37-year-old female. She began her 5-day vacation today, however she did work one hour this morning returning calls and e-mail. She woke up today at 5:30 am (a half-hour earlier than normal), fed the family, and brought her two children with her to go Christmas shopping and run other errands. After stopping at the bank and breaking for lunch, she was driving toward a store to pick up a gift she had already ordered. While on her way to the store, she made a wrong turn somewhere and had no idea where she was. She said she was traveling east toward downtown but needed to go west, so she tried to turn around. She claimed she triggered her left-turn signal, looked in the driver-side mirror, slowed to less than 10 mph, and after not seeing any traffic, made a left turn at an intersecting road. As soon as she turned left from lane 1, a pick-up truck in lane 2 slammed into the left side of her SUV. The impact caused her vehicle to rollover four-quarter turns, coming to rest on its wheels. Her 4-year-old son was in a booster seat and her 9-year-old daughter was belted. Nobody in her vehicle suffered serious injuries or were transported for treatment.
This driver admitted she was stressed from work and had a "long list of things on her mind" today. She was not familiar with the roadway and she never saw the truck that struck her. She has a corrective lens restriction on her driver license and she wears contact lenses for her near-sightedness.
V2 was driven by an 85-year-old male. He wears eyeglasses (far-sighted), a hearing aid and suffers from high-blood pressure and heart disease. He is taking medications for high blood pressure with a possible side effect of dizziness and tiredness; blood thinner; and angina with a possible side effect of dizziness. He is a research subject in a memory-loss study conducted by Duke Medical Center.
This driver claimed he was returning home this afternoon after delivering some packages to the post office. He said he was driving straight in lane 2, to the left of an SUV (V1) when the SUV had suddenly turned across his lane. This driver said it was “almost like she was making a u-turn” and that he never had a chance to avoid the crash. The front of his truck struck the left side of the SUV and his truck came to an immediate stop. This driver suffered bruising to the chest (10-12 inches in diameter) from the driver side airbag and was treated and released at the local trauma center.