The crash occurred in an intersection, controlled by a traffic light. The traffic way leading eastbound into the intersection was a two-way, seven-lane roadway divided by a concrete curbed median. The traffic way leading westbound into the intersection was a two-way, eight-lane roadway divided by a concrete curbed median. This was a straight, level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 72 kmph (45 mph). Conditions were early afternoon on a weekend with dry roads and cloudy skies. Traffic flow was normal.
V1, a 2002 Nissan Altima with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane one. V2, a 1993 Nissan 240SX with two occupants, was stopped at the traffic light in the left turn lane (lane five), facing westbound. When V2's left turn arrow changed to green, V2 accelerated into the intersection, across the path of V1. As the two vehicles entered the intersection, the front of V1 struck the right side of V2. V1 was towed due to damage. All occupants refused treatment. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
V1, the Nissan Altima, was driven by a 19-year old female. She advised that she had just come from school, and was on her way to work. Her mind was on school, and she was also looking for a place to get some lunch. The driver stated that as she approached the intersection, she thought her light was going to turn green, so she kept going. When she realized that a crash was imminent, she tried to avoid the collision by braking without lockup. She said that she did not see the other vehicle until he was right in front of her. The driver commented that she was somewhat distracted by her thoughts and the search for something to eat. She also said that she did not have a seatbelt on, and hit her head on the windshield.
V2, the Nissan 240SX, was driven by a 23-year old male who reported no injuries. He advised that he and his passenger were coming from his Grandmother's house on their way to the mall. His turn arrow was red as he approached the intersection, so he came to a complete stop. After thirty seconds or more, the arrow turned green, and the driver accelerated into the intersection. The driver said that is when the other vehicle hit him in the right side. He indicated that he didn't think he needed to look at the traffic around him because he had the right of way, and didn't think anyone would be going through the intersection.