The crash occurred in the left of two southbound lanes of a four-lane undivided urban roadway. There was a gas station entrance on the west side of the roadway at the point of impact. There was also an intersecting street on the east side of the roadway 10m north of the point of impact. The roadway had a posted speed of 64 KMPH (40 MPH) and the southbound lanes had a positive 4.9% grade. Conditions were daylight and dry with cloudy skies and a temperature of 8°C (47°F.) The crash occurred at 17:30 on a weekday.
Vehicle 1, a 2001 Ford Focus sedan, was exiting the gas station heading east. The driver of vehicle 1 intended to cross the roadway and travel east on the intersecting street. Vehicle 2, a 2002 Ford Windstar minivan, was traveling south in the left southbound lane. A non-contacted truck was in the right southbound lane turning right (west) into the gas station. As vehicle 1 crossed the left southbound lane, the front of vehicle 2 contacted its left side. Both vehicles came to rest in the left northbound lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.
Vehicle 1 was driven by a 19-year old female who was transported to a local hospital due to a complaint of head pain. The vehicle was towed due to damage.
The 54-year old female driver of the vehicle 2 stated she was traveling less than 40 kph (25mph) in the left southbound lane when vehicle 1 emerged from in front of the truck and crossed her travel lane. The driver stated that while she may have attempted to apply the brakes, she had little time to react. Vehicle 2 was also towed due to damage. The driver was not transported to a medical facility.
The driver of vehicle 2 has been diagnosed with Myasthenia Gravis. She also stated that while her condition prevented her from performing strenuous activity, it had no effect on her ability to safely operate a vehicle. She was taking two prescription medications at the time of the crash: Mestinon, which is a cholinesterase inhibitor, and CellCept, which is an immunosuppressant. The driver stated that the medications were taken as prescribed, and did not affect her ability to drive.