A two-vehicle crash occurred in the early afternoon hours on a two-lane, undivided roadway in a rural area. The roadway ran north and south and the speed limit was 72 kmph (45 mph). The conditions were daylight, clear and dry.
Vehicle 1, a 1989 Chevrolet Blazer with two occupants, was traveling north toward a private driveway when it stopped in its lane to make a left turn. Vehicle 2, a 1992 Oldsmobile Cutlass Ciera with two occupants, was traveling south at approximately 45 mph toward Vehicle 2. V1 began to turn into the driveway and struck the left/front of V2. V2 then skidded off the right side of the road and into a ditch. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.
V1 was driven by a 26-year old female who reported that she had excellent vision, was in good health, and did not have any emotional concerns. This trip started approximately 15 minutes earlier when she left her father's home and drove 10 miles to her home. Once she arrived in front of her home, she stopped and waited to turn left with her turning signal on. She claimed she was stopped for a minute or so before the crash happened. She was waiting in the road while her uncle moved a truck that was parked in her driveway. Once the driveway was cleared, she remained in the north travel lane until V2 passed her. She stated she turned her steering wheel to the left but stayed in her lane with her foot on the brake. She believes the southbound car was speeding out of control and may have swerved into her lane causing a head-on, sideswipe collision. She really did not know how it happened. She had her 2-year old son sitting in a child safety seat in the 2L seating position. There were no injuries reported in her vehicle.
Vehicle 2 was driven by a 20-year old male driver who was unemployed but who occasionally worked on his friend's farm for 4 hours at a time. He reported to be in good health, wore corrective lenses, and regularly slept 12 hours every night. For this trip, he drove his mother's car (Oldsmobile) toward his grandparent's house so he could drop off his cousin. As he drove south, he saw a V2 (Blazer) stopped in the north lane without a turn signal on. This driver reported that the Blazer's driver turned in front of him as he drove near her. He stated that he steered right and applied the brakes to avoid the crash, but the front of the Blazer struck the left front of his car. He continued to drive off the right side of the road, down an embankment and into a ditch. He injured his right knee when it struck the steering column but he was not treated for the wound. However, his cousin was transported to a hospital for an injury to his ankle.