This five-vehicle crash occurred in the mid-afternoon hours of a weekday in a 4-way, traffic signal controlled intersection with pedestrian signals. The northbound roadway is on a downhill grade and consists of two through lanes and two left-turn only lanes. The southbound roadway consists of two through lanes, two left turn only lanes and one right turn only lane. Both the north and southbound roadways transition to two through lanes on the far side of the intersection. The east/west roadway consists of two through lanes, one left turn only lane and one right turn only lane preceding the intersection, then two through lanes on the far side of the intersection. The roadways are all of bituminous construction and the posted speed limit for all four directions is 64 kmph (40 mph). At the time of this crash, there were no adverse weather conditions, sight restrictions or road defects.
Vehicle two (V2), a red 1994 Ford Explorer, was northbound in lane one. After the impact with V1, V2 entered and crossed through the intersection, departed the road at the northeast corner, and impacted a traffic light pole with its front plane. After the impact with the pole, V2 rebounded backwards about ½ meter and came to rest on a traffic island where the pole was located facing generally northeast. V2 was towed due to damage.
Vehicle three (V3), a black 1993 Nissan Pathfinder, was eastbound in lane four, the left turn lane. After the impact with V1, V3 was rotated counterclockwise, redirected into the number five southbound lane, and collided front to front with V4, who was stopped. After impact with V4, V3 came to final rest in the number five southbound lane facing generally northwest. V3 was driveable, but was towed for purposes of police investigation. The restrained V3 driver, a 56-year-old male, was not injured. V3 was not involved in the first harmful event, and the critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.
Vehicle four (V4), a white 2000 Oldsmobile Alero 2-door, was southbound stopped in the number five left-turn lane. After the impact with V3, V4 rotated clockwise and impacted the left side of V5 with its front right corner. After impact with V5, V4 came to rest in the number five southbound lane facing generally southwest. The restrained V4 driver, a 16-year-old female, was not injured. V4 was towed due to damage. V4 was not involved in the first harmful event, and the critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.
Vehicle five (V5), a 2000 Toyota Sienna minivan, was southbound in lane four. After impact with V4, V5 rolled forward slightly and came to rest in its original lane of travel facing generally south. The restrained V5 driver, a 16-year-old female, was not injured. V5 was driven from the crash scene. V5 was not involved in the first harmful event, and the critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.