This 2-vehicle crash occurred in the evening at a T-intersection in a suburban neighborhood. A 2-lane roadway runs east and west with an intersecting road that runs north and south. Both roadways have a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph) and each are controlled by a stop sign at the intersection where the crash took place. The conditions were dusk, clear, dry and the traffic level was moderate.
V1, a 1990 Jeep Cherokee Laredo 4 x4 with one occupant, was traveling east in lane one of 2-lane undivided road approaching an intersecting road to its right. V2, a 1997 Honda CR-V with one occupant, was stopped (facing north) at the intersection waiting to turn left (westbound.) Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and collided at a right angle. The front of the Honda CR-V (V2) struck the right side of the Jeep Cherokee (V1) causing it to roll 2-quarter turns to its left and coming to rest on its roof. V1 had to be towed from the scene due to damage but V2 was driven away. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.
V1 was driven by a 25-year-old female without a driver license. She did not speak English but her bilingual boyfriend/husband did speak English and he refused to help with the interview. The investigating officer said she was not cooperative with him or the EMS either, but she reportedly claimed the brakes failed. Once the vehicle was rolled back onto its tires, it was towed to the owner's house without the brakes ever being checked.
V2 was driven by a 48-year-old female that owns her own business. She stated the crash occurred in the evening when she was returning home from work and attempted to turn left at a T- intersection. She states she stopped at a stop sign, on a road she travels everyday, and looked for traffic to her left and right. After waiting at the stop sign for almost 10 seconds, she decided to make her left turn. She saw the Jeep Cherokee traveling toward her from the left side, but she thought it would stop for a stop sign posted for its direction. She did not try to avoid the crash and the two vehicles crashed in the intersection. This driver was not injured in the crash and refused medical treatment when the EMS arrived.