This crash occurred on a weekday in the late afternoon in the daylight hours. The weather was cloudy. The crash was on a 4-lane 2-way undivided roadway. There were vehicles parked in the curb lane on the either side of the roadway. The posted speed was 48 kmph (30 mph) and the roadway was straight and level. V1, a 1986 Chevy Sport van, was traveling south in the second lane of travel when it departed its lane of travel and contacted the left rear of V2, which was legally parked in the curb lane. V1 then pushed V2 down the roadway and up onto the sidewalk. V1 then contacted V3, another legally parked vehicle, at its left back corner and pushed it onto the sidewalk also. V3's final rest was partially on the sidewalk and partially in the curb lane.
Vehicle #1 was driven by a 42-year old female who stated that she had taken a medication earlier that should not be taken when driving. She had not planned to drive anywhere that day but had received a call to pick up her son because he had no other way to get home. She also stated that she thought that she could make it to pick up her son and get back home before the medicine "kicked in." As it happened, as she drove south on the roadway, she blacked out. After that she could only recall being told by someone to sit on the curb until EMS got to the scene. She then remembers being in the emergency room at the hospital. She stated that she had been diagnosed as a manic-depressive. She was taking a pain reliever, a muscle relaxant, and a stomach medication. This driver was transported to the local ER for minor injuries. The driver told hospital staff that she had taken a higher dosage of the muscle relaxant medication than was prescribed. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
Witness #2 reported driving on the same roadway as the driver of V1 prior to the crash. She stated that V1 had cut in front of her vehicle two times and after the second time, she stopped her vehicle in her travel lane to wait and see where V1 was going to go before continuing. She also stated that after seeing the crash, she saw a young boy climb out of the right passenger side window and run off. A young girl came out passenger rear door. The witness stayed with the girl until the child's grandparents came to the crash scene and the police released her.