This single-vehicle crash occurred early evening , on a three-lane, bituminous divided state highway, approaching an exit ramp. The weather was clear and the roads dry. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions or roadway defects. It was dark at the time of the crash, and the roadway was poorly lighted, despite the presence of overhanging street lamps. Posted Speed limit 97 kmph (60mph)
Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme, was traveling west in the first lane of a three-lane, divided roadway at night. The 18 -year-old male driver intended to exit the highway at the next exit ramp. The vehicle departed the road to the right side before reaching the exit ramp. On the roadside, a series of crash barrels leads up to a large sign pole. The barrels are bound together with a steel cable. The front of V1 impacted the cable and crash barrels. V1 rotated clockwise as it moved along the cable, and came to rest off the road in contact with the barrels, just short of the pole. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
The driver told the police at the scene that he would seek medical attention at a local hospital but did not want to be transported by an ambulance. He left the scene, but returned shortly, where he advised the researcher that he did not sustain any injuries.
The driver was well rested, did not have any medical conditions and was familiar with the road and the vehicle. He stated he lost control due to an unknown problem with his vehicle's tires. He exhibited no signs of fatigue, illness, or intoxication. Inspection of the tires on the vehicle showed no damage or signs or abnormal wear. The left front and the right front tires were the same size but different make and model. The rear tires were the same make and size as the left front tire. Both front tires were significantly over-inflated, both having 63 psi. The rear tires were both slightly under-inflated. The driver reported no avoidance action of any kind, and this is supported by physical evidence. He also reported traveling over the posted limit. The driver of V1 has no driver's license, and he reports that he has had no driver training.