The crash occurred on an urban, five-lane, undivided east/west highway that was intersected by a two-lane road on the south and a private drive on the north. The highway had two travel lanes and a left turn lane in each direction at the intersection. The eastbound lanes on the highway curved slightly to the left as they approached the intersection; conversely the westbound lanes curved right. The intersection was controlled by a traffic signal with a posted speed of 45mph (72kph). Conditions were dark with streetlights and dry in the early evening hours on a weekend.
Vehicle 1 was a 1987 Oldsmobile Cutlass Cruiser station wagon traveling west on the highway attempting to turn left onto an intersecting two-lane road. Vehicle 2, a 1995 Buick LeSabre, was eastbound in the left lane, intending to continue straight through the intersection. Vehicle 1 attempted to make the left turn and its front was struck by the front of Vehicle 2. Vehicle 2 came to rest in the intersection facing east near impact. Vehicle 1 came to rest in the westbound lanes 15m northeast of impact facing northwest. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
Vehicle 1 was driven by a 61-year-old female that was belted and not injured in the crash. She was very familiar with the intersection and stated that she had the yellow left turn arrow when she attempted the turn. The traffic signal sequence for Vehicle 1 was red, green left turn arrow for seven seconds, yellow left turn arrow for three seconds, then green with no turn arrow. There was no delay between the turn arrow for westbound traffic and the light turning green for eastbound traffic. A witness confirmed that Vehicle 1 approached the intersection sometime around the yellow left turn arrow.
The driver of Vehicle 2 was a 47-year-old female. She was belted in the crash along with three other passengers. The frontal airbags deployed on the vehicle and EDR data indicated a maximum delta V of 18.65mph (30kph). All four occupants were transported to area hospitals with minor injuries. Vehicle two's driver stated she had the green light and she approached the intersection and did not brake until a crash was unavoidable.