The crash occurred on a north/south four-lane urban highway with shoulders (two lanes each direction). It was intersected on the east side by a two lane residential road. South of the intersection, the highway was divided by a grass median; north of the intersection, a concrete barrier wall divided the lanes. Traffic counts from 2003 indicate the four lanes carry 47,223 vehicles per day in the crash area at a posted speed limit of 80kph (50mph). Conditions were dry and dark with streetlights present on a weekday night.
Vehicle #1 was a 1998 Toyota Corolla traveling north on the highway in the right lane. Vehicle #2, a 2004 Nissan Frontier pickup, was northbound in the left lane just ahead of the Corolla (V1). Vehicle #3 was a 1996 Chevrolet Blazer in the left lane in front of the Frontier (V2). Traffic in the right lane ahead of Vehicle #1 slowed for a non-contact vehicle turning right onto the intersecting side street. To avoid slowing, Vehicle #1 switched lanes to the left lane and struck the left rear of V2 with its right front. This impact sent the Frontier pickup (V2) into a counterclockwise rotation and it struck the right side of Vehicle #3 with its front before rolling right four quarter turns. Vehicle #2 came to rest facing west across the northbound lanes approximately 48m north of initial impact with the Corolla (V1). After impact, Vehicle #1 rotated clockwise and came to rest facing east on the intersecting side street. Vehicle #3 came to a controlled stop several meters north of impact. Vehicle #1 and Vehicle #2 were towed due to damage; Vehicle #3 was driven away. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
Vehicle #1 was driven by a 32-year old male that was belted with deployed frontal airbags. He was not injured in the crash. A witness reported to police that the driver had been speeding and weaving through traffic prior to the collision. Police arrested the driver and charged him with careless driving, driving on a suspended license, and no registration.
Vehicle #2 was operated by a 44-year old female that was belted with no deployed airbags. She received possible injuries but was not transported to a hospital from the scene. She reported that she was traveling between 41-50mph in the left lane and was not braking when she was struck in the rear by the pickup.
Vehicle #3 was driven by a 50-year old female that was belted with no deployed airbags and not injured in the incident.
No Critical Pre-crash Event and no Critical Reason were coded to Vehicle #3 because it was not involved in the first harmful event. The driver was a diabetic who takes two medications for the disease.