This two-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of a five-lane roadway and a two-lane roadway. The five-lane roadway runs east and west, has a two-way center left turn lane and has no traffic controls. The two-lane roadway runs north and south and is controlled by stop signs. All roadways are straight, level and asphalt constructed. The speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph) for the eastbound traffic and 40 kmph (25 mph) for the southbound traffic. The crash occurred during daylight with no adverse weather conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Dodge Ram 1500 pickup, was southbound traveling at a witness reported speed of approximately 55 mph (88 kph) when the driver failed to stop at the required traffic control device and with its front bumper plane, contacted the left side plane of Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Chrysler Town & Country mini-van that was traveling east in the #1 lane. Both vehicles rotated counter-clockwise. Due to the impact V1 was shifted into neutral by the driver contact and traveled backwards onto the northbound sidewalk. It continued traveling in neutral across both the north and southbound lanes, departed the southbound road edge and impacted a block storage shed with its right rear corner and came to rest. After rotating counter-clockwise, V2 contacted a wooden utility pole with its left rear end plane, continued its counter-clockwise rotation and with its front end plane contacted a large bush and came to rest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1 and 80 kmph for V2.
The driver and passenger of V1 were traveling from a hot springs area on their way to another town where they reside. The driver takes numerous prescription medications for various health problems including chronic emphysema, anxiety, depression and incontinence. The driver's medical report states she tested positive for amphetamines & benzodiazepines as well. Per the police report narrative, medical staff told an officer the driver also suffered from macular degeneration, was Bi-polar, had severe social anxiety disorder, had obsessive-compulsive disorder, and emphesema as medical conditions. Tests came back positive for amphetamines and negative for alcohol. The driver admitted to the officer of smoking "meth" earlier on the morning of the crash. The presence of macular degeneration for this driver may have limited the driver's recognition of the stop sign and of V2 approaching the intersection. This sight conditions symptoms include: straight lines appearing distorted; center of vision becomes distorted; dark, blurry areas can appear in the center of vision; diminished or changed color perception. The driver stated in the interview that she slept 4 hours the night before or the morning of the crash, she couldn't recall which. Based on the medications and lack of sleep she was coded as being fatigued. She travels this road only occasionally. During the interview, the driver of V1 was confused about which intersection she had crashed in. She stated that she was planning on turning right at the next street to travel home, but the way to her home was the road on which she crashed. The post impact vehicle trajectories support the witness observation that V1 was traveling at a much higher rate of speed than V2 was at the initial impact. This indicates that the driver of V1 was driving in an aggressive manner which included ignoring traffic controls and traveling above the posted speed limit. She indicated to the investigating officer that she was upset with the way her husband treats her, was staying somewhere other than her residence and was angry.
The driver of V2 was traveling to her workplace on her morning commute. She was well-rested and very familiar with the roadway and the area. She stated that the southbound road side where V1 approached from has a park on the corner with trees and various sized buildings lining the side of the road. She stated that they may have caused a sight restriction for her but that she wasn't looking for traffic in that direction because she was on the through street with no traffic control device.