The crash occurred on a two lane undivided roadway curving to the right, with a posted speed limit of 89KPH (55MPH) and a -8.9% grade. There was a four-leg intersection at the bottom of the hill. The intersecting roadway was a two lane undivided roadway controlled by stop signs for both east and west directions. The weather was clear, the roadway was dry and it was dark, but lighted at the time of this early evening weekday crash.
Vehicle #1, a 1997 Jeep Grand Cherokee, was traveling south on the two lane undivided roadway, negotiating a curve to the right on a downgrade and approaching the intersection. It should be noted that there was a black on yellow intersection warning sign with flashing yellow beacons and a 56KPH (35MPH) suggested speed limit sign 177.7 meters before the intersection. An uninvolved passenger van entered the intersection from the west and pulled into the path of Vehicle #1. Vehicle #1 braked and steered to the left, going through the intersection and struck a box beam guardrail on the southeast corner, with its front. Vehicle #1 dislodged the guardrail from its posts and rotated counterclockwise one-quarter turn to the left, continued off the road and was stopped from rolling down a 50ft steep embankment by the guardrail. Vehicle #1 came to rest facing in an easterly direction. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
The Jeep Cherokee (Vehicle #1) was driven by a belted 32 year old male who was not injured. An unsecured 90 lb black Labrador retriever was also in the vehicle and uninjured. This driver had been driving for one and a half hours (1 ½) since the beginning of this trip. He had driven 90 miles prior to the crash. The driver indicated that he was familiar with the vehicle and denied any inattention or distractions. No other associated factors were coded to the driver of the Jeep.
The uninvolved vehicle was driven by a male in his 30's, who stated he had just awaken from a nap as he had only 4 ½ hours sleep the previous evening. He was a client in an alcohol rehabilitation center and was driving that agency's van to pick up another client. He also indicated that he was not very familiar with the area. He stated he had stopped at the stop sign, and then continued into the intersection. He had not observed the approaching Jeep Cherokee and was only made aware of it when a passenger in the van called to him to 'look out'. It should be noted that Vehicle #1 was black.