This two-vehicle collision occurred at the intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway. The pre-crash roadways for southbound and westbound traffic consist of two lanes of straight and level concrete paving, with two-way traffic on both roadways. The intersection is controlled by stop signs in all four directions, with a flashing red signal above the intersection for added visibility. The speed limit for both roadways is 40 kph (25 mph). This crash occurred during nighttime hours.
Vehicle one, a 1995 Land Rover Discovery was southbound on the roadway. Vehicle two, a 1996 Toyota Tercel was stopped westbound on the cross street at the intersection. Vehicle one and two proceeded into the intersection. The front of vehicle one impacted the right of vehicle two. Both vehicles came to rest in the southwest corner of the intersection. Vehicle one was not towed from the scene. Vehicle two was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of vehicle one, a thirty-three year old male had just begun moving himself this evening. This driver was coming from his apartment going to his girlfriend's home. This driver had been driving for only five minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that he forgot that the stop sign was there and even wondered why the other vehicle ran the stop sign just before he got hit. This driver thinks he may have been looking to the school on his right. This driver also stated that is it difficult for him to see the flashing signal due to his height and a low windshield header. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a monthly basis.
The driver of vehicle two, a thirty-year old female was headed from her home to a friend's home. This driver had just left her house. This driver stated that she was stopped at the intersection looked both ways and proceeded when it was her turn. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.