This two-vehicle crash occurred at noon at an intersection on a 4-lane divided highway. The roadways run east and west with left and right turn lanes for the westbound traffic, and a left turn lane at the intersection for eastbound traffic. The traffic for eastbound travelers was congested because of bridge construction 5 miles up the road. The posted speed limit for both directions was 80 kmph (50 mph) and weather conditions were clear and sunny.
V1, a 1995 GMC Suburban with four occupants, was traveling east approaching an intersecting road to its left. V2, a 1992 Ford Bronco 4x4, was traveling west approaching the same intersecting road. V1 entered the intersection, made a left turn, and was struck on the right side by the front of V2. Both vehicles came to rest in the northwest intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.
V1 was driven by a 45-year old stay-at-home mother with three children. She does not have any fatigue or health related factors; however, she wears eyeglasses for a near-sighted condition. Her normal sleep schedule is 22:30 to 06:00 hours and she woke up this morning feeling well rested. She discovered this morning that her father was not feeling good and he was going to have open-heart surgery later in the day, so she packed-up the kids and dogs to drive to the hospital. Her father lives out of state and the hospital is about a four-hour drive from her home. Their trip began this morning at 10:00 am but two hours into the trip they were slowed in traffic because of road construction. This driver decided to take an alternate route around the traffic, so she made a left turn at the first intersecting road she found. Once she entered the intersection, one of her kids yelled that a car was approaching the intersection and headed right for them. Instead of stopping in the intersection, she accelerated in hope of avoiding the crash. Unfortunately, her 1995 Suburban was struck on the right side by a 1992 Ford Bronco. She was not injured in the crash, but two of her daughters received small scratches and cuts from broken glass. She went with her children in the ambulance to the hospital, while her son stayed with the police at the scene.
V2 was operated by 38-year old male that does installation work Monday through Friday and sometimes on Saturdays. This afternoon he was driving his wife to the hospital for a non-emergency pregnancy check-up. As he drove west at 55 mph toward an intersection, an eastbound vehicle (V1 Suburban) turned in front of him. He reported that he saw V1 approach the intersection and that it never stopped when it reached the traffic light. He claimed that V1 cut in front of him and that he tried to stop but there was not enough time to avoid the Suburban. The front of his Ford Bronco struck the right of the Suburban. He and his wife were not seriously injured but they were transported to a local trauma center for a check-up.