This crash occurred on a Tuesday evening during daylight hours involving two passenger cars at a signalized intersection with protected left turn signals. The speed limit for the roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). The east/west road is a divided concrete roadway with a total of 8-lanes. The north/south divided roadway is comprised of 5 southbound travel lanes for vehicle two's approach to the intersection, and four northbound lanes for vehicle one's approach to the intersection. The road surface was wet from recent rain and there were cloudy atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Cadillac Deville, was traveling north in the fourth lane, a left turn lane. It's driver was attempting to make a left turn at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Honda CR-V, was traveling south in the third lane going straight. The front of V2 impacted with the front right corner of V1. V1 rotated counter clockwise and moved to the southeast corner of the intersection. The driver of V1 had hit the gas pedal and the vehicle drove over the west curb of the southbound travel lanes partially onto the sidewalk. The driver of V1 then drove into the first lane of southbound traffic and moved further south until it came to rest about 50-meters (164-feet) south of the intersection. V2 rotated clockwise after the first impact and came to rest within the intersection. The front airbags of V1 and V2 deployed during the crash events. The driver of V1 was treated at the scene. The driver of V2 was not injured. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V 1 was an 85-year old male who claimed to be well rested and in good health. He possesses a valid motor vehicle license with no restrictions or endorsements. He was not in a hurry, had no previous arguments, not conversing, and was attentive to the driving task. He claimed he does not take any medication. There was no indication of alcohol or drug involvement. He wears a hearing aid, which he was wearing at the time of the crash. He did not know his percentage of hearing loss, but insisted it did not have any influence on his driving behavior. The driver is retired, but would not provide any information about his sleeping schedule. During the interview he was urged by his wife not to answer any further questions, especially about his health, sight or other personal or circumstantial questions. He did not provide any further information about the circumstances of the crash.
He stated he was turning left at the intersection after he had stopped for more than 10 seconds. He was sure he had a protective green left turn arrow. At the time of the crash, the light at V1's lane of travel turns green first. After the lights of the southbound lanes turned red, the northbound left turn lane will receive a green left turn arrow. Prior to that, the left turn vehicle has to yield the right of way, which the driver of V1 did not do. The wet road surface was not a factor in this crash. The driver of V1 said the speed of V2 was so high and the crash so severe, his car moved all the way to final rest as a result of the impact. The driver of V2 stated he heard V 1's accelerator during the post crash move.
The driver of V2 was a 38-year old male who claimed to be well rested and in good health. He possesses a valid motor vehicle license with no restriction. He was not in a hurry, had no previous arguments, was not conversing, and was attentive to the driving task. There was no indication of alcohol or drug involvement. He slept 6 hours the night before the crash. He is a trained professional truck driver who receives up-date training in safe driving on a regular basis. This training consists mainly of video presentations of safe driving behavior. He is familiar with his vehicle and the roadway. He drives his family to a local church three times a week using this route. At the time of the crash he was on his way to the church together with his wife and two children.