This two-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours on a weekday. The crash occurred on a straight stretch of a six-lane, two-way, undivided, wet, level, bituminous, north-south roadway. The first northbound lane at the time of the crash was a parking lane. Vehicles are allowed to parallel park but not between the hours of 1500 and 1900 hours. The crash occurred in the early afternoon prior to those hours. The speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph) in both directions. A two-way left turn lane separates northbound and southbound traffic, and parking lanes border the first lanes of both directions. At the time of the crash it was raining, and the roadway was in poor condition with large cracks disrupting the surface.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Chevrolet Metro four-door sedan, was traveling northbound in the second lane, abreast of a non-contact vehicle in the third lane. Vehicle two (V2), a Hino Motors straight truck with a 2003 air-compressor trailer attached, was parked against the east curb, ahead of V1. The non-contact vehicle began to enter the second lane, and V1 veered right to avoid it. V1 entered the parking lane, where the front of V1 impacted the left side of the air-compressor trailer. V1 rotated clockwise from impact and rolled two quarter-turns towards its left side, coming to rest in the second northbound lane on its top. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The air bags in V1 did not deploy in this frontal impact. Vehicle history shows the vehicle had 5 owners. The year prior to the crash, a salvage title/certificate was issued@ 124,787 kilometers (77,539 miles). Less than a month later, a frame inspection was performed. At 124,785 kilometers (77,538 miles) there was a new owner and a salvage title/certificate was issued. At the time of this crash the odometer reading was 130,148 kilometers (80,870 miles). The Crash Data Retrieval System data was downloaded and analyzed. It was apparent the data retrieved was not from this subject crash. It insinuates the crash recorder was never replaced after the last crash and therefore the airbags if installed in the vehicle at the time of this crash could not have deployed. Probably the air bag light on the dash would have been illuminated.