V1, a 1995 Toyota Camry 4 door sedan, was westbound in lane 2 of a 6 lane undivided straight, level urban roadway (3 lanes eastbound, 3 lanes westbound). V1 was approaching a controlled 4-way intersection with a north/south roadway. V2, a 1992 Honda Accord station wagon, was stopped in lane 3 of an undivided, 5-lane urban roadway (1 northbound, 4 southbound) facing south, at the same controlled intersection. V3, a 2005 Ford Escape SUV, was stopped beside V2 in the second lane of travel, also facing south at the same intesection. When the light turned green, V2 and V3 accelerated to proceed straight through the intersection. V1 continued to proceed straight through the intersection on a red light. V1's front contacted the left side of V2. The force of this impact forced V2's right side into the left side of V3. At the time of the daylight crash, there were no adverse weather conditions and the roads were dry. Vehicles 2 and 3 were towed due to damage. V1 was driven from the scene. None of the occupants in any of the three vehicles were injured.
No Critical Precrash Event and no Critical Reason were coded to the driver of V3 because she was not involved in the first harmful event (the impact between the front of V1 and the left side of V2). The driver of V3, a 64-year old female, was not thought to have contributed to the crash. A complete interview with the driver of V3 and an inspection of that vehicle were obtained. The properly licensed driver of V3 was familiar with both the roadway and vehicle. She was taking three prescription medications - a blood pressure medication, a cholesterol-lowering medication, and an antihistamine. Only the antihistamine had any possible performance-impairing side effects (drowsiness). The driver of V3 was wearing her prescription lenses at the time of the crash, which correct a hyperopic (farsighted) condition to a level of 20/20. When the crash occurred, the driver of V3 was running errands and was not late or in a hurry. There were no indications of aggressive driving or fatigue on the part of the driver of V3. The inspection of V3 revealed no indications that its mechanical condition contributed to the causation of the crash.