This two-vehicle fatality collision occurred during daylight hours, shortly after noon on a weekday. The collision occurred on a five-lane, two-way, dry, level, bituminous roadway, consisting of two eastbound lanes, two westbound lanes, and a center two-way left-turn lane. A bike lane and a parking lane border the north and south edges of the roadway. The collision occurred near a T-intersection to the north, which is controlled by a stop sign for southbound traffic. The east/west roadway is designated a 64 kmph (40 mph) zone.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Isuzu Rodeo four-door SUV, was traveling eastbound in the first lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1974 Chevrolet Corvette coupe, was traveling westbound in the second lane of opposing traffic. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1 and 89 kmph for V2.
A non-contact vehicle abreast of V1 moved right across the lane line, partially entering V1's lane. V1 veered right to avoid the non-contact vehicle, then corrected left to avoid departing the road. V1 lost traction and began to rotate counter-clockwise as it moved across the eastbound lanes and the left turn lane. As V1 entered the second westbound lane, the front of V1 impacted the left side of V2. Both vehicles moved northeast and rotated counter-clockwise. V1 rolled three quarter-turns towards its right side, coming to rest near the northeast corner of the T-intersection. V2 came to rest near V1 and caught fire. Both vehicles were towed due to damage.
The driver of V1 is an unlicensed 28-year-old female, who could not be located for an interview. The driver stated to the police that a non-contact vehicle, to the left of her, partially encroached into her lane without signaling a lane change. She swerved right into the bike lane order to avoid a collision, then swerved back into her lane and lost control. The witness interview agrees with her statement. Police reported a speed for V1 of 90 kmph, or 56 mph based on the pre-impact skid distance of its yaw mark.
The driver of V2 is a 49-year-old male, who sustained fatal injuries as a result of the collision. The autopsy found marijuana in the driver's body, but had negative results for alcohol. A surrogate for the driver could not be located.