This two-vehicle crash occurred during early evening hours on a straight and level, north/south four-lane roadway. The two-lane northbound section is separated from the two-lane southbound section by a painted median. The southbound section did not play a role in the crash. To the east of the northbound lanes was a parking lane equipped with meters. The speed limit on the roadway was 48 kmph (30 mph). There were no adverse weather conditions or roadway restrictions.
Vehicle one,(V1) a 1996 Dodge Intrepid sedan driven by a 19 year-old male with one passenger was traveling northbound in the first lane. Vehicle two,(V2) a 2005 Toyota 4Runner SR5 driven by a 27 year-old male was traveling northbound in the first lane ahead of V1. Along the east side of the road, five unoccupied vehicles were legally parked. These included a 2001 Nissan Altima, a 1992 Toyota Paseo, a 2002 Dodge Intrepid, a 2000 Nissan X-Terra, and a 2003 Infiniti G35. For unknown reasons, the driver of vehicle one was traveling at a very high rate of speed and departed his lane to the right, entering the parking lane. The front of vehicle one contacted the back left corner of the parked Nissan Altima, which pushed the Altima northeast into the grass on the side of the road, lightly contacting a parking meter with its right side. It came to rest in the grass facing northwest. V1 continued northbound and its front contacted the back left corner of the parked Toyota Paseo. The Toyota was launched to the northeast where it contacted a parking meter, large light pole and a small tree. The large light pole was sheered at its base and fell to the ground, exposing live wires. The Toyota came to rest partly in the grass and partly on a sidewalk facing northwest, approximately 14 meters (46 feet) from its initial location. The impact with the Toyota caused vehicle one to rotate clockwise, roughly 180 degrees and its back left contacted the back left corner of the parked Dodge Intrepid. The parked Intrepid was pushed slightly to the northeast where its right side contacted a parking meter and its front contacted the rear of the parked Nissan X-Terra. This impact pushed the X-Terra forward and its front contacted the rear of the parked Infiniti. V1 continued to rotate clockwise as it slid northbound and its right rear corner contacted the right rear corner of V2. The rear bumper of vehicle one was lodged behind V2's right rear wheel. V2 came to rest facing northbound, a short distance north of where it was contacted. V1 came to rest facing westbound, where it blocked both northbound lanes. V1 was towed due to damage and the driver and passenger received non-incapacitating injuries and were both transported to a medical facility. V2 was not towed and the driver was not injured. The driver of V1 was unlicensed and stated he had been driving for approximately 3 years. The driver and occupant did not speak English. A Spanish interview was attempted and the driver recalled very limited details of the crash. His occupant did not want to speak about the crash. The driver indicated that he had never received any form of driver education and it was his first time driving the vehicle. It is unknown if the driver ever had a license, but he did state that he was somewhat familiar with the roadway. The evening prior to the crash, he went to sleep at 2200 hrs and awoke the next morning at 0700 hrs, so fatigue is not considered a factor. The police report indicated that the officer was unsure where the driver had been drinking, but an opened beer can was found on the driver-side floor. The medical report indicated that the driver was in fact intoxicated with a blood alcohol content of .275. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The pre-event movement for V1 coded going straight, category this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the right side of travel lane. Critical reason for the critical event coded driver related factor "aggressive driving behavior". (speeding, alcohol).
The pre-event movement for V2 coded going straight, category other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed. Critical reason not coded to this vehicle.