A single vehicle crash occurred around noon on a semi-dark, two-lane, undivided city street with a curve to the left. The road was wet from an all-day rainstorm and there was a light rainfall at the time of the crash. The roadway runs east and west through a suburban neighborhood with double yellow barrier lines separating each travel direction. The speed limit on the road is 56 kph (35 mph) and the pre-crash grade was 3% uphill.
Vehicle 1, a 2003 Ford Ranger Edge 4x2, was negotiating a curve to the left, when a dog ran into the road and caused V1's driver to apply his brakes and steer left. V1's driver avoided the dog, crossed the center lines and began to lose control and skid toward the right side of the road. The right side tires struck a raised barrier curb, climbed onto the grass roadside, and struck a street sign. With its right side leading, V1 continued across a sidewalk and its tires struck a curb causing it to trip over 3 quarter turns. V1 came to final rest on its left side one meter north of the westbound curb. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1.
V1 was equipped with driver and passenger frontal airbags that did not deploy. The driver sustained minor scratches and exited his truck through the backlight. EMS/Fire treated him at the scene and his vehicle was towed due to damage.
The driver of V1 was a 26-year-old male who was familiar with the roadway as he only lives 1.5 miles from the scene of the crash. The driver is an electrician and worked 2.5 hours today after his work was cut short because of the rain. He had been awake for 7.5 hours after sleeping 5.5 hours the night before. While he claims to not have been involved in any non-work related activities in the past seven days that may have caused physical fatigue, he acknowledges his type of work is strenuous. He also reported to have been in a very good mood after learning he had been approved for a loan earlier in the day. He claimed to be in good health, was not using drugs or alcohol and vision was fine.
The driver claimed he was traveling west between 30-40 mph and noticed a dog walking on the roadside. He said the dog entered the road as he was exiting the road curvature. He swerved to the left and back to the right while locking-up his brakes. The driver claimed to be attentive to the driving task and that the rain and wet road did not help his visibility.