This two-vehicle intersection type crash occurred on a dry, five lane, north/south bituminous asphalt roadway. The roadway consists of two southbound and two northbound lanes that are separated by a continuous left turn lane. The cross street consists of one westbound lane and one eastbound lane. The traffic on the cross street is controlled by stop signs prior to entering onto the five lane roadway. The speed limit on the five-lane roadway is posted at 72 kmph (45 mph). The speed limit on the cross street (two lane roadway) is posted at 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred shortly before noon during daylight hours, during the hours of daylight. The weather at the time of the crash was clear and there were no adverse weather conditions. There no sight line restrictions or obstructions noted.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1988 Ford 4 door T-Bird, was traveling westbound in the westbound lane when it approached the intersection and stopped for the stop sign. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Chevrolet Van, was traveling northbound in lane one of the five-lane roadway approaching the intersection to travel straight through it. As the driver of V1 pulled into the intersection to attempt a left turn, the front of V2 struck the left front of V1. The impact caused V1 to rotate slightly counterclockwise before coming to rest in the intersection. V2 came to rest over the impact and the driver drove the vehicle to the south side of the two-lane roadway. V1 was towed from the scene; V2 was driven. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1 was a 47 year old female who had a 34 year old male passenger in the right front seat. They were on their way home after attending a church service and were not in a hurry. This driver stated that she observed the van (V2) and thought it had its right turn signal on as it approached the intersection and assumed it was going to turn right. The driver of V1 also told police that the sun was in her eyes prior to the crash. The driver of V2 (the van), indicated that as he entered into the intersection to go straight through it, the driver of V1 was looking away from V2 in the opposite direction when V1 pulled in front of him. Witness interviewed by the investigating officer support the driver of V2's account of what occurred.