A four vehicle rear-end crash occurred before noon in the number 3 northbound lane of a concrete divided roadway with three northbound lanes and four southbound lanes. The southbound lanes did not play a role in the collision. The weather at the time of the crash was foggy with an ambient temperature of 34 degrees Fahrenheit (1 degree Celsius). This was just above freezing causing the roadway to be wet and slick. The speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph) at this location and traffic was congested.
Vehicle four (V4) was a 2000 Lexus GS300 sedan and was the lead vehicle involved in the collision. V4 was stopped in the number three northbound travel lane due to congested forward traffic. Stopped behind V4 was vehicle two (V2), a dark blue 2003 Ford Explorer 4-door SUV with two restrained occupants. Vehicle one (V1), a white 1996 Honda Accord 4-door sedan with three restrained occupants was trailing behind vehicle two. The rearmost vehicle involved in this collision was vehicle three (V3), a White 1997 Subaru Legacy station wagon with two restrained occupants Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
Vehicle two (V2) was a dark blue 2003 Ford Explorer 4-door SUV with two restrained occupants. Vehicle 2 had stopped due to congested traffic for about 30 seconds before it was rear-ended by the front of V1. V1 was traveling north in the third lane going about 56 kmph, 35 mph. The driver of V1 was talking to her sister before the crash. Even though the driver was looking straight she lost attention to the roadway while conversing with the passenger. When the driver noticed that V1 had stopped, the driver reacted too slow and slid into the rear of V2. According to the driver she was 6.1-meters (20-feet) behind V2. Meanwhile, V3 was traveling in the same lane as V1 and V2. V3 was an unknown distance behind V1, but could not stop in time and struck the rear of V1 in the second impact of the crash. During the first impact V1 had under-rode V2 and was underneath V2 when V1 was impacted by V3. This impact pushed V1 and V2 forward. V2's front bumper lightly rear-ended V4's rear plane causing minor damage. V1 was towed from the scene and its two passengers were transported with minor injuries. No other injuries were reported for the crash and no other vehicles were towed from the scene.
At the time of the crash the weather was foggy and the roadway was slick. The temperature was just above freezing. The drivers of V1 and V3 were driving too fast for the weather conditions to avoid the impacts.