The crash occurred in the evening hours of a weekday on a four-lane divided roadway. The road has two lanes in each direction divided by a grassy median. The vehicles were traveling in the eastbound one-way lanes, where there is an additional left turn lane. Conditions were dark, unlit and it was snowing. The straight and level cement road was snow covered in places and the posted speed limit was 80km/h (50mph).
V1, a 2002 Ford Ranger compact pick-up truck, driven by a 20 year-old female, was eastbound in the right lane slowing to turn right onto an intersecting residential street. V1 was moving at approximately 10-15 mph with her right turn signal on, checked her rear-view mirror and did not observe any vehicles in the road behind her. The driver then looked forward to begin to turn onto the intended street. The driver checked her mirror a second time and observed V2 directly behind her. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2, a 2003 Pontiac Grand Prix, driven by a 36 year-old male, was traveling eastbound in the right lane at a speed of 35-40mph, and the front of V2 struck the rear of V1 in the right lane, just prior to the residential street. V1 came to rest still facing east with the left side still partially in the right lane in the intersection. V2 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver denied any injuries, and the driver and passenger airbags deployed.
A second Contributing Factor coded to the driver of V2 was fatigue. The driver of V2 was in an ambulance on-scene and observed by EMS and police to require a Breathalyzer test. A second police vehicle was called to administer the test. The driver's test results were .00. The police coded driver fatigue on the Police Accident Report, with no drugs or alcohol, and drove him to his home following the crash with no further testing. The driver stated that he had spent the 12 hours prior to the crash at a local hospital with his mother who was a patient. He stated at a later date that he felt rested at the start of the trip the day of the crash, but appeared on scene to be less than fully alert. An Associated Factor for this driver was that he was operating the vehicle with a suspended Driver's License, for which he was cited. The driver stated that he was not upset, had no concerns, and no emotional or health related issues. The vehicle was in good operating conditions, and the driver was familiar both with the vehicle and with the roadway.