This three vehicle crash occurred in the afternoon hours in the intersection of an urban through road and an alley/private driveway. The through road runs north and south and transitions from a four lane to a five lane (left turn lane added) divided roadway without a positive barrier. The intersecting alley/private drive is on the east side of the through road. The driveway has no traffic controls or signals. This section of the roadway is bituminous asphalt, straight and level. The weather conditions were dry, and cloudy. The speed limit for the through road is 56 kmph (35 mph).
Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Mercury Sable 4 door sedan, was westbound exiting a private drive/alleyway attempting to cross the three northbound lanes and turn left to head southbound on the through road. Traffic was stopped in the first two through lanes due to a train on tracks located approximately two blocks north of this intersection. Other non-contact vehicles left a space for V1 to cross through. As vehicle two (V2) occupied the left turn lane it's front impacted V1's left side. V1 rotated clockwise and its right side contacted the back of vehicle three (V3), which was stopped in the number 2 lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
V2, a 1999 Ford E150 van, was traveling northbound in the second through lane approaching the same intersection. As V2 approached the stopped traffic he changed from the number 2 into the area where the double yellow line splits and expands before the left turn lane in order to pass the stopped traffic, enter the left turn lane, and turn left further up the road. Shortly after V2 occupied the left turn lane it's front impacted V1's left side. All three vehicles came to a final rest in the travel lanes. V1 was in between lane two and three facing northwest. V2 was straddling the double yellow lane line facing northwest. V3 was in the second through lane still facing north.
V3 is listed as an unknown van type vehicle. V3 left the scene before police arrival.
V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage. V3 left the scene. No vehicle occupants were transported from the scene for treatment.
A witness to this crash stated that she was the first vehicle in the first lane that left a space for V1 to cross through. She noticed that the V1 driver looked left seeing that it was clear he then looked right. As he continued forward V2 struck his left side.
V3 was stopped when struck by V1. This vehicle was not involved in first harmful event and the critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.