The crash occurred on the northbound side of a six-lane interstate. There were three lanes of travel, with one paved median lane with a positive barrier wall on the median side (west side) and a paved shoulder (east side). This part of the interstate was curved to the right. The slope was level and it had a super-elevation of +3/122; the radius of curve was 281.45. The posted speed was 104kmph (65mph). The roadway was dry and there were no adverse weather conditions. The interstate surface was cement.
As V1 was negotiating a right curve, the LF tire sustained a 'blow-out.' The driver admitted that the tire was repaired two days prior to the crash using 'fix-a-flat.' As the LF wheel deflated and pulled to the left, the driver responded by overcompensating and steering hard right. The vehicle traveled over two lanes of travel before departing the roadway and contacting an entrance sign. The vehicle began to overturn left-side-leading two-quarter turns onto its roof. The vehicle slid across an entrance lane on its roof before striking a curb, which initiated a third quarter turn almost fully onto its right side; before completely on its right side however, V1's wheels and undercarriage struck the inner wall of an overpass. After striking the wall V1 returned to its roof and slid to final rest. The driver was treated at the scene and the vehicle was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 113 kmph for V1.
A 17 year-old female, who had stated that she was in good health and was not on any medications at the time of the crash, drove this vehicle, a 1996 Saturn SLR. She also stated she does not wear glasses or contact lenses. She stated that she was traveling about 112 Kph (70 mph) and negotiating a right curve on the interstate when she felt the vehicle vibrating very hard and pulling to the right. She stated that she steered back to the left but the vehicle still pulled right. She further offered that, upon realization that she was going to strike a street sign, she again attempted to pull hard left; but after realizing the crash was imminent, she stated that she just held on and closed her eyes. She also reported that after the crash she initially thought she was entrapped; however, she was able to free herself prior to the arrival of emergency personnel.
Review Note: There is a conflict between the driver's statement and final coding. The driver states that the vehicle pulled right and she attempted to steer left out of the rotation. It is believed however that the opposite occurred. When the LF tire blew out physics dictate that the vehicle will pull left and history shows that drivers, especially inexperienced ones, overcompensate in the opposite direction. Despite the super-elevation, which was 2.4%, the dynamics involved are indicative of what has been deduced.