The crash occurred in an intersection joining a roadway containing 4-lanes (2-lanes northbound and 2-lanes southbound) and a roadway containing 4-lanes (2-lanes eastbound and 2-lanes westbound). The roadway had a -3/122 grade eastbound and a +5/122 northbound grade. It was daylight and clear and the posted speed was 59 Kmph (35mph). Vehicle 1 had come to a stop in the second lane of the eastbound lanes traveling next to a non-contact vehicle making a right turn. This vehicle had a red light. The driver of V1 thought he had a green light when the driver of the non-contact vehicle made a right turn on the red light. V1 entered the intersection and Vehicle 2, which was traveling north in lane 1, entered the intersection and contacted the right side of V1. V1 rotated clockwise to final rest across the 2 lanes of the east/west traffic. V2 traveled in the same lane to final rest. The driver of V1 was transported to a local hospital by her mother in a privately owned vehicle. The driver and passengers of V2 were not injured in the crash.
V1, a 1998 Pontiac Grand Am, was driven by a 28 year-old female who is 25 weeks pregnant and had stated that she had stopped for the red light. She further added that when the light turned green she entered the intersection. She saw the other vehicle coming and thought it would stop for the light. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
Vehicle 2, a 1989 Dodge Ram 15-Passenger Van, was driven by a 61 year-old male. He had stated he was transporting 3 female passengers to doctor's appointments at the time of the crash.
An associated factor to V1 was that she was inattentive to the traffic light. When the vehicle next to her made a right turn on red this driver thought the light was green. An out-of-town police officer, who witnessed the crash, confirmed that V1 had a red light.
It was determined that the driver of V1 was driving on a suspended license. The driver of V2 would only give his last name when asked and stated that he would not allow the researcher interview his passengers nor inspect his vehicle.