This one-vehicle crash occurred during early evening hours in an intersection on two parallel east/west running railroad tracks. South of the tracks is a one-way roadway comprised of one lane that runs eastbound. North of the tracks is a one-way roadway comprised of one lane that runs westbound. South of the intersection is a one-way roadway that runs southbound. North of the intersection is an alley entrance. North and south of the railroad intersection are crossing gate arms equipped with flashing lights and bells. The speed limits on the east and west roadways are 40 kmph (25 mph). There were no adverse weather conditions or roadway restrictions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Buick Regal GS sedan driven by a 17 year-old male with two passengers was traveling eastbound on the east running roadway. Parallel to the V1 was an eastbound four-car passenger train running on the south track. The train was slowing for an approaching stop. The driver of the V1 went around the down crossing gates and attempted to head north. The front of the train contacted the left side of the Buick. This impact pushed the Buick to the east and the right rear door contacted a large metal mechanical crossing gate. This impact caused the vehicle to rotate clockwise approximately 180 degrees. The left rear corner of the V1 lodged under the right side of the train engine and V1 was dragged approximately 16 meters (53 feet) as the train came to a stop. The train remained on the rails and V1 came to rest facing southeast, still partially lodged under the train. The driver received a non-incapacitating injury and was transported to a medical facility. The other two occupants also received non-incapacitating injuries and were both transported. The vehicle was towed due to damage. The driver of V1 had been driving for approximately 2 months. He was familiar with the intersection and claimed to be familiar with his mother's vehicle. The driver did not work or attend school at the time of the crash. The evening prior to the crash, after having attended a going away party at his aunt's home, the driver slept for 12 hours. He had been awake for approximately 6 hours at the time of the crash, so fatigue was not considered a factor. He stated that he was aware of the train and felt he could make the turn safely in front of the train at a set of crossing gates a block ahead that were still up. The driver stated he remembered hearing the bells sound as he began crossing the tracks and that he realized the gates would probably start moving down. He intended to cross the tracks and enter the alley entrance just north of the intersection, but said his exit from the tracks was blocked by westbound traffic. The alley entrance is marked with a Do Not Enter sign. In addition, the driver said that as his vehicle crossed the first set of tracks, his engine died. He stated this was due to the fact that anytime a car crosses tracks where a train is approaching; the vehicle will automatically shut off. A stopped westbound witness in her car stated that no such vehicles were blocking his exit and the V1 was nowhere near the exit. She stated just as the V1 turned to head northbound, the train immediately struck it. The driver indicated that he was not taking any kind of medication. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
The pre-event movement for V1 coded going straight, category this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection. Critical reason for the critical event coded driver related factor "Illegal maneuver" (disregard for traffic signal).
Associated factor possible include the driver's lack of driving experience and unfamiliarity with his vehicle.