This two-vehicle crash occurred on a weekend evening at an intersection on a two-lane undivided roadway. The roadway runs east and west with a southbound intersecting road at the location of the crash. There is a left-turn lane at the intersection for eastbound traffic to turn south and a right-turn lane for westbound traffic to travel south. In addition, a railroad track runs parallel to the road. The posted speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph) for both directions and the intersection is controlled by a traffic control signal with a preempted controller for a train crossing. The weather conditions were clear, dry, and dark without any street lamps to light the intersection.
Vehicle 1, a 1996 Jeep Cherokee Limited, was driven by a 26-year-old female and was occupied with three other passengers. Vehicle 2, a 1999 Jeep Grand Cherokee Laredo, was driven by a 54-year old male. V1 was traveling west and V2 was traveling east. As both vehicles approached the intersection, V1 entered the left-turn lane and proceeded to turn south. V2 entered the intersection at the same time as V1 and the vehicles collided head-on. Both vehicles were towed due to damage and all occupants were transported to a local trauma center. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1 works as a Housekeeper five days a week. She states that she was stopped at the intersection waiting for her signal to turn green for more than 10 seconds. Once her light turned green, she advanced forward without ever recognizing V2. The front of her Jeep was struck by V1 and it came to final rest in the intersection. This driver was treated and released from a local trauma center for minor injuries.
The driver of V2 works as a bus driver but has been on sick leave the past few weeks because of a heart condition. He reportedly has been sleeping 10 hours per day but he slept 13.5 hours the last 24 hours before the crash because of the weekend.
This driver claimed he painted his house earlier this Saturday and was driving over to a friend's house at the time of the crash. He was traveling west about 56 kmph (35 mph) through an intersection and collided with an eastbound Jeep, head-on. He believes he had a seizure because he cannot recall any details about the crash. He was transported to a hospital from the scene for minor injuries. The medical report and crash report both suspected alcohol use but there were no tests to prove it.
He is very familiar with the intersection where the crash took place and suggests that there might have been an issue with the traffic signal. He states that eastbound traffic can trigger a green light for them by pulling up to the intersection and driving over the stop line. He maintains that when an eastbound vehicle triggers the green light, it immediately changes the westbound light to red. He thinks this scenario could have also been the reason the other vehicle turned in front of him. A scene inspection could not confirm that the signal is actuated by traffic, in fact, the stop line was so eroded that it was barely visible.
The driver of V1 never took driver education and has restriction on her license that requires her to be accompanied by class driver. This was her first recorded crash in the state.
The driver of V2 does not have any restrictions on his license but a background check on his license discovered he had been involved in eight crashes in the past five years.