This four-vehicle crash occurred on a five lane divided roadway. There are three lanes on the southbound side and two on the northbound side. The roadway has a speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). This roadway is straight and level with no defects. The number one lane is a right turn only lane. The crash occurred during daylight hours with heavy traffic.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Nissan pickup truck was southbound in lane three traveling at 80 kmph (50 mph). Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Nissan Armada stopped southbound in lane three ahead of V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 2004 Lincoln Navigator was stopped southbound in lane three ahead of V2. Vehicle four (V4), a 1999 Toyota Camry was stopped southbound in lane three ahead of V3. The front of V1 impacted the rear of V2. The front of V2 then impacted the rear of V3. The front of V3 then impacted V4. The front of V2 then impacted a sign as it entered the median. V1, V3 and V4 came to rest on the roadway. V2 came to rest on the center median. V1, V2 and V3 were towed due to damage. V4 was not towed from the crash. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1 and 80 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a thirty-three year old male was southbound and had been driving for about an hour on this trip. This driver was heading to the grocery store after leaving work. This driver stated that he was looking at the radio changing a station and was not looking at the roadway. This driver works professionally as a local delivery driver. This driver has been diagnosed and is currently receiving treatment via a CPAP machine for sleep apnea. This driver drives this road weekly and in this vehicle daily.
The driver of V2, a thirty-nine year old female was stopped southbound in the third lane. This driver indicated that before the crash she was looking behind her at the approaching traffic. The driver was looking at the traffic in the rear view mirror. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road daily.
The driver of V3, a forty-five year old male was stopped in traffic. This driver had been driving for about two hours at the time of the crash. This driver was in town for some business. There were two additional occupants in the vehicle and there was a social conversation happening. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.