This crash occurred on a four-lane undivided roadway with two lanes in each direction. The crash occurred at a railroad crossing. It was a cloudy weekend afternoon. The posted speed was 56 kmph (35 mph). The pre-crash slope was level, but at the railroad crossing the slope was +3 percent. V#2, a 2001 Chevrolet Lumina, was traveling in lane #2 and slowed for the railroad crossing because of rough roadway. V#1, a 1996 Chevrolet Cavalier, was also traveling in lane #2, following V1. V2 was traveling at a constant velocity and did not realize that V1 was slowing. At the last minute, the driver of V#1 put on the brakes and steered left to avoid hitting V#2; however, the front right of V1 contacted the left rear of V2. Final rest for V#1 was in its original travel lane but slightly over double yellow lines to the left. V#2 was pushed to the right but stayed in its original lane.
V#1 was driven by a 40-year old female who stated she was not familiar with the area, as she had just moved into the area. She also stated that she had a habit of looking both ways as she came to any railroad crossing. As she approached this railroad crossing, she looked both to the right and the left, looking for any trains. When she looked back straight ahead, she saw that the vehicle in front of her had slowed almost to a stop. There was no time to avoid the other vehicle. This driver stated that she was in good health - that she wore glasses for reading only and had been diagnosed with anxiety and depression but had not taken her medication that morning. Associated factors coded to this driver include the use of prescription medication, unfamiliarity with the roadway (this was the first time she had been on this stretch of road), and a false assumption of other road user's actions, in that she assumed that V2 would continue over the tracks at a normal speed. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V#2 was driven by a 49-year old female who had stated she was on her way home from the library and was traveling west on the roadway. As she came to the railroad crossing she had slowed down because the tracks were in bad condition. She also stated that she normally looks in her rear view mirror but for some reason that time she did not. She also stated that she was in fair health. She is diabetic and was diagnosed with breast cancer and had just started chemotherapy. She was taking prescription medications for diabetes and cancer treatments.