This is a two-vehicle head-on double-fatality crash that occurred on a 4-lane divided state roadway with an extended sod median. The two northbound lanes curve to the east with a radius of 781 meters (2562 feet) with a super elevation of 7% with an up grade of 5%. The crash occurred at night with no lighting present. The speed limit for the roadway is 104 kph (65 mph) and warning signs are posted for northbound travel to "keep right except to pass" and "slower traffic keep right" and warning signs facing south are posted stating "wrong way" and "one-way". Signage on the route was to MUTCD standards. There were no adverse weather or road conditions present.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Chevrolet Silverado pickup with a camper shell and one occupant, was southbound traveling the wrong way in northbound lane two. V1 had stopped at an intersecting road approximately 2 miles north of the crash location. He erroneously turned left onto the northbound lanes instead of crossing over to the southbound lanes. The "wrong way" and "one-way" signs posted at the intersection for traffic that may try to travel south in the northbound lanes illuminates brightly during darkness when headlights shine in their direction. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Chevrolet Silverado pickup with one occupant, was also traveling north in northbound lane two when the front of V1 struck the front of V2. Both vehicles rotated counter-clockwise and came to rest in the area of impact on the northbound roadway. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Both drivers were pronounced deceased at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.
Witnesses stated V1 had been traveling in the wrong direction and they had tried to alert the driver by honking their horn and flashing their lights while traveling in the same direction in the proper southbound lanes divided by 14 meters (46 feet) of median. Another witness stated he had been traveling north in the lane two and successfully avoided impacting V1 by swerving to the right. V2 was traveling behind this witness.
The wife of the driver of V1 stated her husband, a 72-year-old, was on his way home from a friend's house and is very familiar with the roadway. He drives the route weekly and is familiar with the vehicle. The driver had been drinking at the friend's house. Medical records state a BAC of 0.09%. The driver had recently had a stint implanted and suffered from heart problems. His daily medications included aspirin, combivent, doxazosin, folic acid, nitroglycerin, norvasc, plavix, spironolactone, crestor, digitek, quinine, and calcium supplement. The wife of the driver had talked to him at 0530 hours that evening and he stated he was feeling fine.