This single vehicle crash occurred on a street that had a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph) and had two lanes of travel. These physically undivided lanes allowed for one travel lane that headed east and one travel lane that headed west. The asphalt roadway was dry and free of any defect, and this stretch of road was straight and level. Additionally, this roadway had a designated bicycle lane and shoulder on either side.
Vehicle 1 (V1), a 2001 Dodge Intrepid driven by a 61-year-old female, was traveling westbound in lane 1, the right travel lane. Upon arriving at the crash site, V1 was still at its final rest after striking a thin, but very strong metal pole. V1 had partially departed the roadway to its right side (the south curb edge) and its right side tires were on the sidewalk. When the driver was first asked what had happened she stated, "I had an accident" (verbatim). It was at this point that a tow truck operator took her by the arm and walked her a few feet away. In less than a minute the driver turned around and stated that the only individual that had permission to touch her vehicle was the tow truck operator and that she did not want any photographs of her vehicle to be taken. There was a single rookie police officer present who called the District Captain to come to the scene. While waiting for the District Captain to come to the scene, the tow truck operator was overheard advising the driver, "Don't say that, just tell them your brakes weren't working" (paraphrasing). Based on what little information that was obtainable, it is known that this driver was familiar with this roadway and her vehicle, and that she made some sort of error that allowed for this unstable situation on the roadway. The claim that her brakes had failed was untrue. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1.
An emergency medical unit was dispatched to the scene but the driver claimed not to be injured. Approximately one hour and fifteen minutes following the crash, driver was overheard telling the tow truck operator that her neck felt sore. It is unknown whether or not driver sought medical attention at some later time. All attempts to re-contact this driver, including a visit to her residence to obtain an interview were futile.