This single-vehicle crash occurred off the roadway of a 15 meter wide undivided, unmarked two-lane roadway. The westbound approach was straight and then curved left. There were curbs and sidewalks on both sides of the roadway. Conditions were daylight and dry with cloudy skies. The roadway was bituminous and level with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The setting was early evening on a weekday.
Vehicle 1 was a 1991 Ford Mustang convertible with two occupants traveling west in lane 1. As V1 entered the left curve, V1 lost control and started to rotate counterclockwise. V1 departed the lane to the left. V1 left approximately 63 meters (207 feet) of yaw marks on the roadway before contacting the south curb. V1 contacted the curb (event 1) with its wheels and undercarriage. V1 went over the curb, traveled 20 meters (66 feet), and contacted a 40cm diameter tree (event 2) with the front center, causing the front end to shift left. V1 then rotated counterclockwise, traveled 5.3 meters (17 feet), and contacted another 40cm diameter tree (event 3) with its back center. V1 continued to rotate counterclockwise and came to final rest 8 meters (26 feet) west of event 3 facing south with its front tires on the sidewalk and rear tires in the street. Police Reported Travel Speed is 113 kmph for V1.
The Ford Mustang (V1) was driven by a 55-year-old male who reported minor injuries from the crash. According to the passenger, the driver's daughter was getting married the next day, and the driver had a few alcoholic beverages prior to the crash. The driver offered to show off the quickness of his vehicle to the passenger. The driver drove to the end of a dead end road and performed several doughnuts in the middle of the road. He then squealed the tires and proceeded forward at a high rate of speed. The passenger estimated their speed to be in excess of 128 kmph (80 mph). The driver never let off the gas and for an unknown reason lost control of his vehicle. According to the passenger, no avoidance maneuvers were attempted.