This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. On the east side of the intersection, the roadway is undivided with westbound traffic lanes consisting of two through lanes, and one right and left turn lane. On the west side of the intersection, the roadway is undivided with eastbound traffic lanes consisting of two through lanes, and one left turn lane. This roadway is straight and downhill, with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours on a weekend with moderate traffic flow.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1990 Chevrolet 2500 pickup truck with only the driver present, was eastbound in lane three in preparation to turn left. Vehicle two (V2), a 1975 Ford LTD with two occupants present, was westbound in lane two in preparation to proceed through the intersection. As V1 was turning left the front of V2 contacted the right side of V1 causing V1 to rotate counter clockwise. The right rear corner of V1 then struck the left front of V2 in a sideswipe action. . V1 continued on in a northwest direction and contacted a traffic light pole with its left side. V2 continued on in the same northwest direction before coming to rest. Both vehicles came to rest on the north side of the intersection, in the right turn lane. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. None of the occupants were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a seventy-four-year-old male, was driving from one barber shop to another in an attempt to find one that was open. He stated being rested, drives this route weekly and is very comfortable with his vehicle. This driver has high blood pressure and cholesterol and takes medications for these medical conditions, which include Triamterene, Lovastatin, and Lisinopril. The driver stated he did not stop before initiating the left turn. Through the turn the driver detected V2 but too late to avoid the crash. The driver stated he was looking left as he entered the turn.
The driver of V2, a forty-four-year-old male, was on his way home from the gas station. He stated being rested, drives this route weekly and is very comfortable with this vehicle. This driver has no medical problems and did take an Ambien the night before the crash. The driver of V2 detected V1 making the left turn and applied the brakes prior to impact but could not avoid the crash. He also was talking to his passenger at the time.