This three-vehicle crash occurred near an interchange on a controlled-access roadway. This roadway is divided by a jersey barrier and has a paved shoulder on the right side. The four southbound lanes and the right entrance ramp are dry, level and straight. The speed limit for this roadway is 97 kmph (60 mph). This crash occurred during the early morning rush hour with no adverse atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a1989 Toyota Celica, was southbound on the entrance ramp, intending to merge into lane one. V2, a 1972 Chevrolet K2500 pickup, was parked on the right shoulder of the roadway. The driver had pulled off the roadway to check the hood latch on his truck. V3, a 1999 Toyota Tacoma pickup, was southbound in lane one. As V1 moved into lane one, the driver realized that V3 was in the lane. This driver steered right, traveled off the right side of the roadway and then steered left. The front of V1 struck a reflector post. V1 returned to the shoulder and the right side struck the back of V2. V1 continued southbound and the left side struck the right side of V3. V1 then traveled off the right side of the roadway and down an embankment, coming to final rest facing southeast. V2 was pushed forward and traveled down the embankment, coming to final rest facing west. The driver of V3 drove his vehicle to final rest on the shoulder facing south. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a thirty-six-year-old female, was traveling with her fifteen-year-old and twelve-year-old sons. They were late for the sons' basketball practice at school. This driver admitted that she had never been a great driver, stating, "I took drivers education in high school, but was terrible. I didn't get my license until I was 21, for fear I'd kill someone." She was well rested and familiar with her route and vehicle. This driver takes humalog insulin for her diabetes. She stated that her blood sugar was low when she woke up, but that she had injected her insulin, eaten and felt fine when she left her home forty-five minutes later. This driver had multiple emotional stressors at the time of the crash. Her sons were upset with her because they were late, although they were not talking in the vehicle just prior to the crash. Also, this driver and her husband and children had recently been evicted from their home and were living temporarily with her mother.
The driver of V2, a forty-three-year-old male, was sitting in his vehicle at the time of the crash. He was not interviewed.
The driver of V3, a fifty-three-year-old male, was traveling with a twenty-five-year-old male passenger, from a hotel to a jobsite. They had stopped at a convenience store just prior to this crash. This driver was well rested and comfortable with his vehicle, route and passenger. He slowed down when he realized that V1 was losing control but was unable to avoid the crash due to traffic congestion.