This is a four-vehicle rear end type crash occurred mid-afternoon in the #2 eastbound lane of a two way, six lane dry, asphalt roadway. The roadway consists of three westbound and three eastbound lanes that are separated by a raised median. There is a left turn lane in the area where the crash occurred. The speed limit on the roadway is posted 72 kmph (45 MPH). There were no environmental factors that contributed to this crash. The traffic at the time was heavy and traffic was stopped in the lanes for the intersection ahead.
V-1, a 2003 Nissan Altima 4 dr, driven by a 22 year-old male was traveling eastbound in the #2 lane at approximately 56 kmph (35 MPH) to the rear of another vehicle not involved in this crash. The driver, stated that the vehicle in front of him, changed lanes into the #3 lane. He then saw that traffic was stopped in his lane. He locked up his brakes and skidded and struck the rear of V-2 that was stopped in the traffic lane. The impact caused V-1 to rotate clockwise until it came to rest in the eastbound #2 lane facing in a southeasterly direction. The vehicle was towed due to damage. V-2, a 2001 Buick Century 4dr, was traveling eastbound in the #2 lane when the vehicle stopped in the traffic lane. The vehicle was stopped about 6 feet to the rear of V-3. The driver could not recall how long she was stopped. The driver of V-2, a 68-year-old female, stated that prior to the crash see looked in her rear view mirror and saw the driver of V-1 laughing. The facial expression of the driver of V-1 then changed just prior to hitting her vehicle. The driver said that after she was hit from behind, her vehicle went forward and struck V-3 that was stopped in the traffic lane in front of her. The driver of V-2 was transported from the scene to a local medical facility. The vehicle was towed due to damage. V-3, a 1994 Ford Ranger pickup, was traveling eastbound in the #2 lane when the vehicle stopped. The vehicle was stopped for about 2-3 seconds before V-2 struck it from behind. The vehicle went forward and struck the rear of V-4 that was stopped in the traffic lane. The driver of V-3, a 17-year-old male, stated that when he stopped he looked in his rear view mirror and saw V-2 rolling to a stop. V-2 was about 1½ car lengths behind V-3 when the driver saw the car. The driver stated that he heard V-1 hit V-2 that caused him to look in his rear view mirror. The right front passenger, a 15-year old female, also occupied the vehicle. The vehicle was removed from the scene on it's own power. V-4, a 2002 Chevrolet Tahoe, was stopped in the traffic lane when it was struck from behind by V-4. The driver, a 63-year old male and the right front passenger, a 65-year old female occupied the vehicle. The vehicle was removed from the scene on it's own power. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.