This rear end crash occurred during daylight hours on a cloudy day with no adverse weather conditions present. The crash took place on a 5 lane divided, level concrete roadway controlled with a traffic signal and pedestrian crossing and a speed limit of 45 mph (72 kph).
Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Chevrolet Cavalier with one occupant, was traveling west in the second lane behind a large truck. The driver of the truck ran a red light at the intersection and the driver of V2 was so close to the truck that the driver did not see the red light right away so had to stiffly apply the brakes to stop. V2 had been stopped for more than 10 seconds at the light. Vehicle one (V1), a 1986 Chrysler New Yorker with two occupants, was traveling west in the second lane when the driver noticed V2 stopped at the intersection. The driver of V1 applied the brakes but the front of V1 struck the rear of V2. V1 came to rest adjacent to the impact, V2 was pushed into the intersection, the driver then drove the vehicle to the median. V2 was towed from the scene. A 3-week-old child, who was treated by Para-medics at the scene, was the rear passenger in V1. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
A 19 year-old female under no medication and who had a 3-week-old child in the rear seat drove V1. The driver has three years of driving experience, drives the route weekly and is familiar with the vehicle. At the time, the driver was heading to her boyfriend's house and had driven some 30 miles. She averages 5 hours of sleep a night since the baby was born. She stated she was well rested. Just prior to the crash, the driver was distracted by the occupant and not looking directly at the roadway. When V2 stopped in front of her the driver did not react in time due to the internal distraction.
A 16 year-old female who takes only Ibuprofen as medication drove V2. The driver only has been driving since February of this year. The driver was going home after a long day at work doing the work of another employee that did not show up. The driver stated she was fatigued as a result of the workload. Before the crash the driver was following a large truck a little to close. When the driver of the truck passed through an intersection, she noticed that the traffic signal was red. The driver braked hard to stop. After the driver had stopped and collected herself, which took about 15-20 seconds she was struck from behind by the front of V1.