This crash occurred in a four-way intersection controlled by signalized traffic control devices in all direction. The north/south roadway was a three-lane undivided roadway with the northbound bound approach to the intersection having two lanes northbound and one lane southbound. The southbound approach had two lanes southbound with the second lane being a left turn-only lane. The westbound approach was a 3-lane undivided roadway with two lanes going west and one going east. The eastbound approach was a 2-lane, one-way roadway. The north and south lanes were straight, level, and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The east and westbound roadway was straight, level, and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday night and the road was dry and skies were clear. Although it was dark outside, the roadway was well lit. Traffic flow was light.
V1, a 2006 Dodge Dakota pickup truck, was traveling south in lane 2 intending on making a left turn at the intersection. V2, a 1994 Mercury Cougar 2-door coupe, was traveling north in lane 2 intending on continuing straight through the intersection. When V1 approached the intersection, the light was red so the driver waited for a green arrow to make the left turn. When the light turned green, the driver began to turn left. V2 did not stop at the intersection (as the driver of V1 expected) because V2 also had a green light and was going straight. Neither driver had the opportunity to avoid the collision and the two vehicles collided in the middle of the intersection. The front left of V1 struck the left front of V2. V1 came to final rest at the point of impact. V2 came to final rest approximately 10 meters northeast of the point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the 2006 Dodge Dakota, was driven by a 17-year old male who reported no injuries. The driver had only had his driver's license for a little longer than a month (the driver had a restricted license, but was in compliance with all the factors of the license). The driver was on his way from his own home to drive his passenger home. The driver claimed that he made this trip frequently when he had his learner's permit and also in the past month of having his license. The driver claimed that he was very familiar with the intersection and the way that the lights work. As the driver approached the intersection, he proceeded into the left turn-only lane and waited for the light to give him a green arrow to go. When the driver saw the green light he began to make the left turn, disregarding V2 that was coming in the opposing direction, because he thought he had the green arrow and V2 had a red light. However, V2 did not have a red light and the two vehicles collided. The driver afterwards tried to convince the police officers that the light was malfunctioning; however, the officers said that the light sensor is deactivated when the traffic flow is lighter (e.g. late at night) so there was nothing wrong with the light.
V2, the 1994 Mercury Cougar coupe, was driven by a 48-year old female (that has only had her license for 14 years) who reported "B" injuries on scene and was transported to the hospital. She was traveling from the county courthouse to the place that she and her passenger were staying for the night. As she was coming towards the intersection, the light changed from red to green. She noticed V1 entering the intersection but then saw it stop in the middle of the intersection with its left turn signal on. The driver of V2 said she had a feeling that the vehicle was going to turn in front of her so she kept an eye on V1. She entered the intersection while she had a green light and then V1 did turn in front of her and hit her front left side, sending the vehicle 10 meters northeast of point of impact.