This three-vehicle crash occurred during daylight hours in the middle of a four-way intersection. All four directions of the intersection were two-way, two-lane, not physically divided bituminous roadways. The north/south directions of the roadway were controlled by visible stop signs, but there were no traffic control devices for the east/west directions of travel. The roadways were dry, straight, and level, with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Dodge Ram 2500, was traveling south intending to continue through the intersection after having stopped for the stop sign. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Toyota 4Runner, was traveling east intending to continue straight through the intersection without slowing down. Vehicle three (V3), a 2005 Dodge Ram 1500, was heading west stopped in traffic waiting to make a left at the intersection. As V1 continued through the intersection, the front of the vehicle made contact with the left rear of V2. V2 was forced off the right side of the roadway because of the impact and skidded in a counterclockwise direction partially off the roadway. V2 rolled to the right two quarter turns. V2 re-entered the roadway and spun on its roof in a counterclockwise direction. While spinning and skidding on its roof, V2's left rear contacted the left front side of V3. V2 continued rotating, coming to final rest on its roof facing south partially off of the eastbound roadway. After the impact, V1 continued forward with a slight counterclockwise rotation before coming to final rest facing south in the southbound lane. V3 was pushed back slightly where it remained at final rest. Only V2 had to be removed from the scene due to vehicle damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
The driver of V1, a 46-year-old male, was not injured as a result of the crash and did not require any medical attention. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. After numerous attempts, neither an interview nor a vehicle inspection could be obtained. For this reason it is uncertain if any fatigue, health, or mechanical issues contributed to this crash.
The driver of V2, a 65-year-old male, suffered moderate injuries including soreness to his neck and right hand and was transported to a medical facility for treatment. There were four other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred, all of which had to be transported to the hospital for treatment for unknown injuries. After numerous attempts, an interview could not be obtained from this driver. It is therefore unknown if any fatigue or health related factors contributed to this crash.
The driver of V2, a 55-year-old male did not suffer any injuries and did not seek any medical attention. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. No interview could be obtained from this driver. It is therefore unclear if any fatigue or health related factors played a role in this crash.
There was no Critical Pre-crash Event coded to this vehicle because it was not involved in the first harmful event. Further, no Critical Reason was coded for this vehicle. Finally, no associated factors could be coded to this vehicle due to the lack of interview.