The crash occurred in the center of a 4-way intersection. There was one lane each eastbound/westbound and one lane each northbound/southbound. The eastbound/westbound roadway was straight, level and bituminous with a posted speed of 40 kmph (25 mph). The northbound/southbound roadway was straight with a -3% grade, bituminous with a posted speed of 40 kmph (25 mph). Northbound/southbound traffic was controlled by stop signs. A large box truck was parked on the northwestern corner in front of the southbound stop sign. It was afternoon on a weekday. The road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was light.
V1, a 1998 Buick LeSabre with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane one when it passed through the intersection without stopping at the stop sign. V2, a 2006 Toyota Corolla with 3 occupants, was traveling in the westbound in lane one when it entered the intersection. V1 attempted to avoid the collision with V2 by turning right and applying the brakes. V2 struck V1 on the front left quarter panel and came to rest, V1 then continued forward until it impacted a brick fence corner post. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1 was driven by a 23-year-old male who reported no injuries. Driver states he was traveling at approximately 40 kmph (25 mph), when he attempted pass through the intersection. He claims not to have observed the stop sign because a delivery truck obstructed it. Driver one attempted to avoid the collision by steering right and braking.
V2 was driven by a 70-year-old male who reported neck pain and was transported to the emergency room. Occupant one, a 66 year-old female, reported neck pain and was transported to the emergency room. Occupant two, a 78 year-old female, reported shoulder/upper arm pain and was transported to the emergency room. Driver states he was traveling at approximately 40 kmph (25 mph), when he attempted pass through the intersection when V2 passed through the intersection without stopping. V1 was unable to attempt any avoidance maneuver and struck V1.