This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The north-south roadway is divided by a raised brick median on either side of the intersection and the traffic lanes consist of a right turn lane, two through lanes and a left turn lane for each direction. This roadway is straight, downhill in the southbound direction, and has a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred at night and there was moderate traffic flow.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Volkswagen Jetta with two occupants, was southbound in lane four, making a left turn at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Chevrolet Impala with only the driver present, was northbound in lane three, approaching the intersection. The traffic signal indicated a green light (not green arrow) for the southbound left turn lane and V1 proceeded to turn left. V2 had a green light in the northbound direction and entered the intersection at the same time. The front of V1 struck the left side of V2. V1 came to rest facing east in the middle of the intersection. V2 drove to final rest, facing north in lane one past the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. None of the occupants were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a twenty-eight-year-old male, had just come from a friend's house and was going home. He was well rested, drives this route daily, and is very comfortable with his vehicle. He said that he was talking to his passenger about different synonyms for the word "laugh". When the light turned green, he thought he had the green arrow and didn't have to yield right of way to northbound traffic. He has no health problems and takes no medications.
The driver of V2, a nineteen-year-old male, had just come from the mall and was going back to his house. He was well rested, drives this route every day, and is completely familiar with his vehicle. He takes no medications, even though he has minor migraines.