This crash occurred just after noon of a weekday in the southeast corner of a four-way urban intersection. The intersection was composed of a north/south physically divided roadway and an east/west physically divided roadway controlled by a properly functioning traffic signal. The bituminous roadway was dry, straight, and level with a posted speed limit of 56kmph (45mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.
Vehicle 1 (V1), a 2004 BMW 745 with one occupant was stopped in lane one (a designated right turn lane) preparing to turn right and head east. V2, a 2003 Hyundai Santa Fe SUV with two occupants, was eastbound in lane two approaching the intersection where it intended to go straight. As V1 attempted it turn it was struck on the left side by the right front of V2. V1 pulled forward in lane one to get out of the roadway and came to final rest. V2 came to final rest in lane three of the eastbound lanes. V2 was towed due to damage while V1 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.
The driver of V1, a 46-year-old male, was not from the area and was here for business meeting sustained no injuries. He admitted to the police on scene that he was lost and had no idea where he was going. He was on his Blackberry while driving in an attempt to get directions. He stated in the interview that he saw the SUV coming through the intersection but, thought he was in the right turn lane not, the straight through lane. The driver then decided to make the right assuming the SUV was turning. As he made the right turn he was hit on the left rear side. He was cited for the crash for failure to yield right of way.
The driver of V2, a 16-year-old male, was on his way to pick up his mother after he had new tires installed on the vehicle on for her earlier that day. He stated that he saw the BMW “inch out” from its stopped position but thought it would stay there. He stated that as he went through the intersection the BMW just turned into him. The driver of V2 said that he tried to steer to the left and brake but could not avoid V1. Neither the driver nor the passenger traveling in V2 was injured.