Case #2006-45-053
The crash occurred at the intersection of an east/west two-lane urban tertiary artery and a two-lane north/south side street. The arterial road was straight and level with no controls. The side street was straight and had a negative 8% grade as it approached the intersection from the south, but leveled at the intersection. The side street was controlled by stop signs. The posted speed limit on the arterial road was 64kph (40mph); the side streets speed limit was 48kph (30mph). Conditions were dark with streetlights illuminating and dry on a weekday evening. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
Vehicle #1 was a 1995 Dodge Intrepid traveling north on the side street. Vehicle #2, a 1999 Plymouth Voyager minivan, was westbound on the arterial road. The Intrepid (V1) failed to stop at the intersection and was struck in the right side by the front of the Voyager (V2). A secondary side-slap collision ensued with the right side of Vehicle #1 and the left side of Vehicle #2 contacting. Vehicle #1 came to rest facing west on the west side of the intersection. After impact Vehicle #2 departed the northwest corner of the intersection. It sideswiped a stop sign with its front right side before continuing down a steep lawn (-18% grade) and striking a tree with its front. Both vehicles were towed due to damage.
Vehicle #1 was operated by a 48-year old female that was not belted. She was transported to an area hospital with minor injuries. The driver side frontal airbag did not deploy, however, the frontal passenger side airbag deployed. Police charged her with disregarding a stop sign, driving on a revoked license, and no insurance.
Vehicle #2 was operated by a 44-year old female that was belted. She was transported to a local hospital with minor injuries. The driver side frontal airbag did not deploy, however, the frontal passenger side airbag deployed. She stated the other vehicle ran the stop sign leaving her little time to react.