This daytime two-vehicle rear end collision occurred on a bituminous, one-way, four-lane, straight, and 6% grade roadway. Traffic control signal is present and posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). No adverse weather conditions present.
The NASS researcher had to make a determination of what the collision details were and who was driving vehicle one (V1). Initially, vehicle two (V2) driver stated that the male occupant of V1 was the driver. The V1 male occupant claimed he was not the driver and female occupant was the driver. V1 male occupant stated he was not the driver since he had a suspended license and that he merely moved female occupant to front right seat after the collision. Also, V1 male occupant claimed V2 driver stated that he had dropped his cigarette and did not notice V1 stopped in travel lane. V2 driver was not smoking while being interviewed and claimed V1 vehicle passed his vehicle on the right and made a sudden lane change into V2 travel lane. Lastly, police officer interviewed the female occupant while in the hospital and the female admitted that she was not the driver. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, a 1995 Cadillac Concours sedan occupied by a 26-year-old male driver and a 19-year-old female in front right seat, was traveling north in lane one and made a sudden lane change into lane two in front of V2 with the intention of going straight once the traffic signal changed to green. V1 driver, who travels roadway weekly, takes asthma medication, was on his way to visit a relative. V1 driver made a sudden lane change into lane two after passing V2. In doing so, V2 driver did not have adequate distance to avoid collision despite having braked and steered left. The right front bumper of V2 contacted the left rear bumper of V1. V1 came to rest in lane two facing north. V1 was driven from scene.
V2, a 1996 Infiniti I-30 sedan occupied by a 41-year-old male driver, was traveling north in lane two with the intention of stopping at traffic signal at the collision intersection. Driver is familiar with roadway and does not take medication. As stated above, V1 passed V2 on right side and made an abrupt lane change into V2 travel lane. V2 driver attempted to avoid collision by applying brakes and steering left. V2 contacted V1 and came to rest partially in lane three facing northwest. V2 was towed due to damage.