The crash occurred in the early morning hours before dawn on a fully controlled urban highway with two lanes in each direction divided by a grassy median without a positive barrier. Conditions at the time of the crash were dark, sleeting and the bituminous roadways were entirely covered in ice. The icy conditions occurred suddenly on what had been dry roads a short time earlier, resulting in more than 60 reported crashes within the first hour. Traffic had been light on the weekend morning on the level road. The posted speed limit was 105 kmph (65 mph). Police closed down the highway following this crash until the roads could be salted.
V1, a 2004 GMC Envoy, was driven by a 36-year old female who was on her way to work. She was traveling northbound on the highway in the right lane. The driver stated during the follow-up interview that the roads had been fine and then two miles before the crash, she observed a police car with its flashers on enter the highway going northbound also, and the driver noticed that the roads suddenly seemed to be getting slippery. All traffic slowed down to 50 mph. As V1 was negotiating a curve to the right, the driver saw a disabled vehicle on the right and changed lanes to the left. Immediately, V1 began to fishtail. The driver then saw a police car, a disabled vehicle, a policeman and a bystander standing near the vehicles on the left side of the road. The driver swerved left into the median to avoid striking them. The driver of V1 lost control and rotated counterclockwise with the right side leading. V1 traveled down a slope and then up a slope where the right wheels dug in and V1 began to roll 5-quarter turns and entered the southbound lanes. V1 came to rest on its right side on the roadway, straddling both lanes facing east. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. The driver had unbuckled her seatbelt to remove her coat when she turned her defroster on high as it began to sleet a few miles prior to the crash. She thought the seatbelt was completely re-buckled, but it was not. The driver was ejected from the vehicle during the second quarter turn and she came to rest in the median near the southbound lanes. The driver was transported to a local trauma center.