The crash occurred in the westbound lanes of a four-lane roadway divided by a grass median. There were two westbound lanes and two eastbound lanes and a crossover in-between. This was a straight, level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 80 kmph (50 mph). It was mid afternoon hours on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear.
V1, a 1995 Freightliner tractor pulling one semi trailer with a 40,000lb load, was occupied by the driver only and traveling in lane two. V2, a 2003 Ford F-250 truck occupied by four occupants, was also traveling in lane two. V2 entered the roadway from a construction job about 152m from the crash location. V2 entered the roadway and began traveling in the second lane. V2 began to slow for the crossover and was struck in the rear by V1's front. V2 rotated counterclockwise and rolled right. While V2 was rolling it contacted a yield sign with it's top. V2 continued across the median and came to a final rest in the eastbound second lane on its roof. V1 came to a controlled final rest in the second westbound lane beyond the crossover. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the Freightliner truck, was driven by a 46-year old male who reported no injuries. He advised that he had picked up his load and had driven about 100 miles. He further advised that he was driving next to a non-contact vehicle (also a semi tractor trailer) and that V2 pulled out of a yard into the second lane and he couldn't stop. He advised that he was traveling around 72 kmph (45 mph). He stated that the witness could tell what happened. V1 was driven from the scene.
V2, The Ford F250, was driven by a 19-year old male who reported injuries but refused treatment. He advised that he and his occupants were off of the side of the road to the north putting up a billboard sign. He further advised that he pulled onto the roadway and got into the second travel lane. He stated that he had been traveling in the second lane for some distance when he put his turn signal on and began to slow to turn into the crossover. That's when he was struck from behind. He stated that they rolled through the crossover and came to rest on the eastbound side of the median. Driver two advised that his three occupants reported injuries but also refused treatment. V2 was towed from the scene due to damage.
The Witness in this case was driving in the first westbound lane next to V1. He stated that V2 pulled across the roadway in front of both trucks. He stated that he almost hit him. He further stated that V2 entered the second lane and slowed down suddenly. This researcher discredited this witness due to the distance between the roadway entrance and the crash location. Further, there were no skid marks from V1 to indicate any kind of braking prior to the crash. This researcher coded unknown recognition error due to the unknown reasons that driver one didn't recognize V2 slowing to make a turn.