This two-vehicle crash occurred on a curved, physically divided, three-leg intersection. The roadway runs east and west at the location of the crash. Westbound travel consists of two through lanes and a left turn lane and eastbound travel consists of two through lanes and one right turn lane. The road curves right for westbound traffic and to the left for eastbound traffic. The radius of the curve is 94 meters. The speed limit is 64 kph (40 mph) and there were no adverse weather conditions at the time.
Vehicle one, a 2002 Lexus RX300 was westbound in lane three, the left turn lane. Vehicle two, a 2003 Toyota Highlander was eastbound in lane two negotiating a curve through the intersection. Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and impacted head-on. Vehicle one rotated counterclockwise after the impact and came to rest on its wheels facing south in the middle of the eastbound lanes. Vehicle two came to rest next to vehicle one on its wheels facing east in the middle of the eastbound lanes. Vehicle one was towed due to damage. Vehicle two was not towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
The driver of vehicle one, a seventy-one year old female was heading home from a doctors visit. This driver had only been driving for a few minutes at the time of the crash. This driver recently injured her back and had been getting treatments for this condition. The driver indicated that because of the back problems she wakes up irritable. This driver was currently taking: Protonix, Ibuprofen, Vitamins, Zyrtex and Lovastatin. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis. This driver claimed a green light and a red light for vehicle two, this intersection is not times that way, and both directions would be green at the same time.
The driver of vehicle two, a fifty-seven year old female was driving to pick up a friend to take to surgery. This driver had been driving for about forty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver indicated that she was thinking about her friend and the surgery. This driver indicated that she had been diagnosed with sleep apnea but is not receiving treatments. This driver indicated that she wakes up irritable each morning. This driver was taking Fish Oil, Calcium, Clonazepam, Vitamins, Requip (sp) and a non-drowsy allergy medicine. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a monthly basis.