This two-vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane roadway. This road is straight and uphill for westbound traffic. At the time of the crash the road was icy. The speed limit on the road is 97 kmph (60 mph). This crash occurred during morning hours and it was dark with snow and windy conditions.
Both vehicles were on the same roadway traveling in the opposite directions. Vehicle one's roadway was bituminous with a+2% grade and ice covered with no controls. Vehicle two's roadway was also bituminous with a -2% grade and ice covered with no controls. Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Ford F150 was westbound in the first lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Buick Park Avenue was eastbound in the first lane. As V1 was westbound, it lost control on the icy road and began to fishtail. Both vehicles were traveling in an open area with no windbreak on either side. A sudden gust of wind caused V1 to slide into across the center lane to the left. V1 departed the lane to the left, then returned to the right. V1 then departed the road to the right and then came back left, crossed the original travel lane and into the eastbound travel lanes. The front of V1 impacted the right of V2. V2 then came to rest off the south shoulder. V1 then came to rest off the right shoulder. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of vehicle one, a forty-year old male had just left home one half hour prior to the crash. This driver was driving to work at the time of the crash. This driver had left early today because of the weather. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.
The driver of vehicle two, a seventy-two year old male was driving to work at the time of the crash. This driver had also been driving for about one half hour at the time of the crash. This driver left early today because of the weather. This driver is required to wear glasses but was not wearing any corrective lenses. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.