This two-vehicle rear end type collision occurred during the late morning hours on a Tuesday. The collision occurred on a six lane, dry, straight, level asphalt roadway that is divided with a two-way left turn lane. The roadway starts as a five lane then a third lane opens up for southbound traffic. The speed limit for the roadway is designated 56 kmph (35 mph).
Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Mercury cougar XR7 2-door convertible, was traveling south in lane 3. Vehicle one (V1), a 1988 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, was also southbound in lane 3 at an unknown distance behind V2. An unknown non-contact vehicle pulled out of a driveway on the west side of the street immediately in front of V2. The non-contact vehicle intended to travel northbound. The driver of V2 braked hard to prevent hitting the vehicle and had stopped. The front of V1, traveling in lane 3, impacted with the back of V2. Both vehicles moved forward after impact. V1 was towed with major damage; V2 was parked with minor damage. The driver and only occupant of V1 and the two occupants of V2 were transported with minor injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 is an 18 year-old female. After several attempts the researcher was unable to locate the driver of V1, however the researcher left a questionnaire with her sister who refused to give a contact phone number for the driver.
The driver of V2 is a 65 year-old male with 49 years of driving experience. He wears glasses for reading only and was not wearing them at the time of the crash. He was wearing non-prescription sunglasses. He does not have any restrictions on his out of state license. He says he has trouble hearing and wants to see a doctor about getting a hearing aid. He has arthritis, high blood pressure and is prone to seizures. His last seizure was more than a year ago. He takes Atenolol, Naproxen, Trileptal and Paxil. When asked why he takes Paxil he said because he gets angry about the way other people drive. He rarely drives this road and it was his first time in the last three months driving his wife's vehicle. He is not comfortable driving this vehicle, he says its too small. He said a vehicle pulled out in front of him from the driveway on the right. He just missed the other vehicle. He was talking with wife about the near miss a second before V1 rear-ended him.