This 2-vehicle crash occurred in an intersection on a weekend afternoon. The intersection is the meeting place for a street that allowed for east and westbound travel while the other street allowed for north and southbound travel. Both streets were straight, level, and the asphalt surfaces were dry and free from any defects. This intersection was known by the local residents to be quite dangerous due to the many crashes that have taken place there. While it is controlled by many traffic lights, certain parts of the intersection have up to three turn-lanes as well as a lane that allowed for through traffic. The crash occurred in the intersection of the east/westbound street. This street had two lanes for travel in each direction and was physically divided by a curbed grassy median as vehicles neared the intersection. The posted speed limit is 48 kmph (30 mph) on the east/westbound street and 56 kmph (35 mph) on the north/southbound street.
Vehicle 1 (V1), a 2006 Ford Five Hundred driven by a 43-year-old female was traveling eastbound in lane 1, the rightmost curb-lane. The driver explained that she had just picked up a client and traveled less than 2 blocks before the crash occurred. She stated that as she entered the intersection, Vehicle 2 (V2) made a left turn directly in front of her. Although all of the scene evidence shows that it was her vehicle that struck V2, she said, "I was going across the intersection and he hits me ... he wasn't paying attention when he turned." (verbatim) She acknowledged that she was having light conversation with her passenger but was fully aware of V2 slowly moving into the intersection. She also acknowledged that she was familiar with this intersection and that she felt quite comfortable traveling it. As V1 passed through the intersection, the front left and center struck the right front area of V2 pushing V2 back in an eastwardly direction. After the first impact, the front left of V1 quickly struck V2 again. Both the passenger and driver's frontal airbags deployed. At final rest, the majority of V1 remained in its original travel lane and had to be towed from the scene. Neither driver or occupant was injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.
Vehicle 2, 2004 Toyota Camry driven by a 57-year-old male was traveling westbound and had engaged in a left-hand turn with the intentions of traveling southbound on the north/south street. He was driving his vehicle and was on his way to meet his wife at a car rental service. He, like the driver of V1, stated that he was both comfortable and familiar with this intersection. He also stated that he was very aware that it was his responsibility to yield to on-coming traffic, but that V1 seemed to have come from out of nowhere. At final rest, V2 had been struck by V1 with enough force that V2 was pushed out of its turn lane and was towed from the scene due to the damage it sustained in the crash. Driver was not injured.