This crash occurred on a two lane undivided roadway curving to the left with a radius of curvature of 250 meters and a posted speed limit of 72kmph (45mph). The weather was clear, but the roadway was wet from the melting snow. This crash occurred on a weekday afternoon.
V1, a 2002 Volkswagen Jetta, was traveling east on the two lane undivided roadway, at a speed of 113kmph (70mph), when it went off the roadway to the right and sideswiped a guardrail with its right side. The vehicle continued on a straight path coming in contact with a large mound, going airborne for 5 meters before landing and continuing on the straight path. The vehicle then went across a small stream and impacted with the east side of the stream embankment and a small pine tree with its front, shearing the pine tree. The vehicle then flipped rear over front and went airborne for a 2nd time, rotating counter-clockwise ¼ turn while airborne and impacting with a 52cm tree, 267cm from the ground, and a grounded concrete post. The tree impact sheared off part of the rear of the vehicle. The vehicle spun clock-wise 280 degrees continuing on its path and impacted with another cement post with it right front, several small trees, another cement post, and a 80cm tree (damage 128cm from ground) coming to land on its left side. The vehicle then fell over onto its wheels coming to final rest facing west. The driver was thrown from the vehicle during the final impacts, exiting the vehicle through the front left door, which had been thrown open. Police Reported Travel Speed is 113 kmph for V1.
V1 was driven by an unbelted 39 year-old female driver who was airlifted to a trauma center with serious head injuries. A witness to this crash stated the vehicle had been speeding and he had seen no sign of brake lights or vehicle correction during the crash. Interviews with a surrogate revealed that speeding was a normal driving pattern for this driver and the driver was addicted to prescription pain medication of an unspecified type. The surrogate also stated that this driver would “space-out” during the course of a normal conversation due to drug and alcohol intake.
The police issued summonses to this driver for: DWAI, Driving with a Suspended License and Speeding.