This three-vehicle crash occurred in daylight hours in the middle of a four-way intersection, which was controlled by traffic lights in all directions. All four directions of the intersection were two-way, two-lane, not physically divided bituminous roadways. The roadways were dry, straight, and level and had a posted speed limit of 64kmph (40mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Infinity FX35, was traveling east on the roadway intending to continue straight through the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 GMC Yukon, was traveling north on the roadway slowing down for a red light at the intersection. Vehicle three (V3), a 2003 Infinity I35 was stopped in the westbound lane at a red light. As V1 entered the intersection, the front left of V2 contacted the right side of V1. The impact caused V1 to rollover to on its left side. As V1 was sliding across the street on its left side, the back of V1 made contact with the left front of V3. After contacting V3, V1 spun approximately 90 degrees on its left side in a counter clockwise direction. The momentum caused the vehicle to roll back onto all four wheels, where it came to final rest in the westbound lane, facing north. V2 rotated clockwise approximately 45 degrees before coming to final rest in the westbound lane facing north. V3, only moved slightly back after it was struck by V1, where it remained at final rest. Both vehicles one and two had to be removed from the scene due to damage. V3 was able to be driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a 56 year-old woman, suffered unknown injuries as a result of the crash and was taken to the hospital for treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. After numerous attempts, an interview could not be obtained from this driver. For this reason it is uncertain if any fatigue or health related issues contributed to this crash.
The driver of V2, a 50 year-old male, did not suffer any injuries as a result of crash. There were two other occupants in the vehicle at the time who also did not suffer any injuries. A complete interview was conducted with the driver of this vehicle. He relayed that he was approaching the intersection at a reasonable rate of speed intending to stop at a red light. When the light turned green, he proceeded through the intersection without stopping. He claimed that he didn't notice the other vehicle (V1) until it was practically in front of him due to an obstructed view. As soon as he noticed the vehicle he applied his brakes and tried to veer right to avoid the crash. He also pointed out that as he exited the vehicle after the crash he went to check on the driver of V1. He noticed that her phone was open and lying on the street, but couldn't say for certain if they were talking on the phone at the time of the crash. No fatigue or health related issues contributed to this driver crashing into V1.
The driver of V3, a 73 year-old woman, did not suffer any injuries as a result of the crash. There were no other occupants present in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A complete interview was obtained from this driver. She stated that she was just waiting at the intersection at a red light. She claimed that V1 went through the red light when it was struck by V2. At that point the vehicle began to roll and was heading for her car. She thought that V1 was going to land on top of her. No health or fatigue related factors were coded for this driver.
There was no Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle because it was not involved in the first harmful event. Further, there was no Critical Reason coded for this vehicle. In addition, no associated factors were coded for this vehicle.