This three-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of a seven-lane roadway and a six-lane roadway. The seven-lane roadway is straight and is not divided. The west section of the seven-lane has a 3.2% downgrade slope as it nears the intersection. The six-lane road is straight and not divided. The south section of the six-lane roadway has a 3.2% downgrade slope as it approaches the intersection. The speed limit on the both roadways is 56 kmph (35 mph). The intersection is controlled by tri-light signals for all directions that were functioning correctly at the time of the collision. The south section of the six-lane roadway has a warning sign indicating a "Dip." The dip occurs, as the roadway meets becomes level at the south crosswalk. This crash occurred during early morning hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Aston Vanquish was eastbound in the fourth lane, the left turn lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1985 Toyota Celica was northbound in the third lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 1994 Chevrolet 3500 was southbound in the third lane. As V2 traveled through the intersection, the front plane of V1 contacted its left plane. V1 and V2 rotated and side slapped with the right side of V1 impacting the left side of V2. The front plane of V2 proceeded to contact the front plane of V3. V1 came to rest facing northeast. V2 came to rest facing northwest against V3, blocking the northbound third lane. V3 came to rest facing southbound in its original travel lane. V1 received moderate damage and was driven from the scene. V2 received major damage and was towed from the scene. V3 received minor damage and was not towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, fifteen-year-old male stated in the police report that he was heading to his girlfriend's home. This driver was traveling with two passengers. According to statements given to the police, the driver was up all night watching movies and smoking marijuana. The marijuana was laced with cocaine. The driver received an early morning phone call from his girlfriend asking that he meet her immediately. In a desperate attempt to reach his girlfriend, the driver borrowed his father's vehicle without permission. This driver is not licensed. The driver was en route to pick up some fast food. The driver fled the scene of the collision. The driver stated in the police report that he had been driving around the neighborhood after being a bit disoriented.
The driver of V2, a thirty-one year old male, was not interviewed. According to witnesses, the driver was on a cell phone at the time of the collision. The witnesses also informed the researcher that the driver was holding an asthma inhaler when they reached him. The driver fled the scene on foot after exiting the vehicle.
The driver of V3, a sixty-year-old male was traveling southbound in the number four lane. The driver was en route to a hardware supply store for work supplies. The driver was drinking coffee prior to the collision. He was holding a coffee cup with his right hand and was in the process of placing it into a cup holder during the collision. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.
V3 was not involved in first harmful event; and, the critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.