A single vehicle daytime collision occurred in the early afternoon hours on a Friday. The collision occurred heading northeast on a two-way arterial road where it passes under a highway. The road has four lanes of travel, divided by a one-meter wide curb in the center. The pre-crash roadway is concrete paving with an unknown downhill grade and a gradual curve to the right as it levels out. The approximate radius of curvature is 530 meters (1,738 feet), as measured on satellite maps. Access to the roadway is fully controlled, with no junctions in the immediate area of the crash. The posted speed limit for the roadway is 48 Kmph (30 mph).
Vehicle one (V1), a 1991 Chevrolet S10 Blazer SUV, was traveling northeast in lane two with only a driver. V1 departed the road to the left as it was passing under a highway. The left front wheel of V1 rode up the curb in the center of the road, lifting the entire left side of V1. V1 then continued forward on two wheels, and struck a support column in the center of the road. This impact ripped off the left front wheel assembly and shattered the loose rim. V1 then came back to level, without rolling over, and swerved to a stop approximately 200 meters (656 feet) after the impact. The driver was transported to the hospital due to injuries. V1 was towed due to disabling damage, being without a left front wheel. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
The driver of V1 was a 49-year-old male who could not recall the details of the crash.The driver of V1 could not recall the details of the crash. He stated that he thought he had been rear-ended, and pushed into the barrier. He also stated that he had one beer that morning, but had spent the whole morning in a café. The driver tested positive for marijuana use and a blood alcohol level of 0.231 at the hospital. Medical records indicate the driver was taking the following medications prior to admission: oxycodone; MSSR; senna; docusate; and, metoprolol (lopressor) for hypertension. The driver is a roofer, and was unable to work due to a labor union strike, and it seems that rather than go home after finding he couldn't work today, he went to a bar. After drinking for several hours, he was called to go pick up his son from downtown to keep his son out of trouble. The driver indicated he was worried about his son as he was driving, taking his full attention away from the driving task. The driver can't recall the events leading up to the collision; it is believed that he was too intoxicated to control the vehicle at the speeds he was traveling.