This multi-event single vehicle crash occurred off the roadway of an undivided two-lane north/south roadway. The roadway was new bituminous asphalt that had been lain two weeks prior to the crash. The road curved to the right 16 meters (52 feet) north of the first harmful event and then was straight up to final rest with an intersecting road from the west. There were soft shoulder signs posted along the roadway. The posted speed limit was 72 kmph (45 mph). The setting was early afternoon on a sunny, clear weekday.
Vehicle 1 was a 2004 Ford F-150 extended cab pickup truck traveling southbound, negotiating a right hand curve at a high rate of speed. After successfully negotiating the curve, V1 departed the right side roadway, traveled 49 meters (161 feet) and struck a mailbox (event 1). V1 then returned back on the roadway, crossed over the double yellow lines and departed the left side of the roadway. V1 then re-entered the roadway, crossed the double yellow lines a second time and departed the right side of the roadway. After departing the right side roadway, V1 began to yaw counterclockwise on the shoulder. V1 then contacted a speed limit sign (event 2) with the right side of the vehicle, and shortly after that began to roll over (event 3). The truck rolled 8-quarter turns and came to final rest on its wheels facing east. The driver was ejected from the vehicle and came to rest under the truck. He was pronounced dead on scene by EMS. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1.
The Ford F-150 (V1) was driven by a 35-year old male who owned a plumbing business. The day of the crash he reportedly had the day off and was going to see his sister at a local lake. He had been consuming alcohol and for an unknown reason, he left the lake without telling anybody. It was believed he was going to buy more alcohol or to go to his residence, which was around the curve from where the crash occurred. Based on surrogate interviews provided by his parents, the driver suffered from significant stress and fatigue. Family reported that several months ago he had a stress-related bleeding ulcer and he had to be brought to the emergency room for treatment. He worked 50-60 hours per week including weekends. He took lots of naps and always had a hard time waking up. They believed he had a sleeping disorder of some kind, but he had never been treated for it. A vehicle inspection revealed many over-the-counter (OTC) medications, including stimulants, stress tablets, mood stabilizers and heartburn medications. Also found in the vehicle were several empty beer cans. The parents reported that 17 years ago the driver was involved in a jet ski accident and suffered a severe head injury, in which a part of his brain was removed and a metal plate was inserted. They said he suffered memory loss and had to be re-taught activities of daily life. The stepmother stated that since then, he had a hard time differentiating between right and wrong. As recently as eight months ago, the father reported him being arrested for exceeding 100 mph on a motorcycle and claimed he had a speeding problem. They said that he had always lived on the edge and would often race cars on a local track. DMV records showed him to have an indefinitely suspended license due to a non-accident related offense. Police also reported the driver as being a known drug abuser.