This three-vehicle crash took place on an east/west roadway that had 2 lanes for travel, one in each direction. Separating the opposing travel lanes were trolley-tracks that were situated on a slightly raised concrete strip that was 7.3 m wide. On both sides of this raised concrete strip was a single yellow painted lane line as well as a rumble-strip. The posted speed limit for this street was 48kmph (30 mph). The weather was relatively clear, and the asphalt road surface was dry and generally free from any defects. Lastly, there was a shoulder lane on both sides of the street that was also used for legal parking.
Vehicle One (V1), a 1994 Chrysler New Yorker driven by a 42 year-old male was traveling east bound in lane one, the right travel lane. During a complete on-scene interview, when asked what had happened the driver stated that he was exhausted and he was taking local roads because he was too sleepy to travel on an expressway. He explained that he remembers turning onto this street and he knew that he was getting close to his intended destination and then, "Boom. I woke up. I hit them." By “them”, V1 driver was referring to Vehicle 2 (V2). With V1 driver asleep behind the wheel, V1 had drifted eastbound and the front of V1 slammed into the rear of V2. V2 was then pushed forward and the right front of V2 came into contact with the back right bumper of a legally parked vehicle, Vehicle 3 (V3) causing only minor damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.
V2, a 1996 Nissan Sentra, was driven by a 30-year-old female who had been traveling east in lane one. In a complete on-scene interview, V2 driver explained that she never uses her cell phone while driving, but had to make a call. She explained that she pulled over and parked so that she could safely use her cell phone. V2 was stopped when it was struck by V1 and even though it was stopped, the left side of V2 was sitting in the eastbound travel lane. Traffic was still able to pass V2, but it was observed on-scene that some drivers slowed down and passed V2 while remaining in the travel lane, while many drivers were forced to partially drive up and onto the trolley median in order to navigate around V2. V2 driver stated that she was very familiar with this street and drives on a daily basis. Driver was asked how long she had been stopped for, if she was still wearing her seatbelt, and if her car was still in gear when she was "parked". She acknowledged that she her transmission was in park but her engine was still running as she planed to pull back into traffic after a brief phone call. Driver of V2 and occupant of V2 were still in their seatbelts. V2 driver also explained that she had been stopped for less than one minute and that if her foot was on the brake.
Vehicle 3, a 1992 Ford Tempo was legally parked in the right shoulder lane and was situated in front of, and to the right of V2. As stated earlier, after V2 was struck by V1, it was pushed forward and the front right of V2 came into contact with the rear left bumper of V3.
V3 was a legally parked vehicle and therefore did not warrant any coding for the purposes of this survey.