This two-vehicle crash occurred at a 4-way intersection during morning hours on a dry, overcast weekday. The north/south roadway was divided by a raised grass median. The northbound side had four lanes including a left turn lane to the westbound roadway. Southbound traffic had three lanes. The westbound roadway was undivided and had four lanes: one left turn-only, one straight, one right turn-only, and one lane for eastbound traffic. The posted speed limit for all directions was 72 kmph (45 mph). The roads were bituminous and level in all directions.
Vehicle 1 was a 1998 Chevrolet Blazer sport utility vehicle with two occupants traveling north. Vehicle 2 was a 2000 Chevrolet C-3500 pickup towing a 5000 lb. trencher on a trailer. V2 had two occupants and was stopped for a red light facing west. V2's light changed to green and the driver of V2 proceeded into the intersection with the intention of going straight across. V1 failed to stop for a red light and the front of V1 struck the left side of V2. V1 rotated in a counterclockwise direction and the right rear side of V1 struck the trencher on V2's trailer. V2 overturned 1-quarter turn onto the passenger side. The trailer did not overturn. V1 and V2 came to final rest side-by-side facing northwest. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.
The Chevy Blazer (V1) was driven by a 34-year old female who was transported from the scene with possible injuries. According to the police report, the driver of V1 stated that she was talking to her son, who was in the back seat. She was also looking at him, and when she looked up, she was in the middle of the intersection. It wasn't until she looked up that she noticed the light in her direction was red. Police estimated her speed to have been 56 kmph (35 mph) at impact. Her vehicle was towed from the scene due to disabling front end damage.
The Chevy C-3500 (V2) was driven by a 59-year old man who worked full time burying cables. He reported possible injuries and was transported from the scene for treatment. He was on his way to the hardware store to pick up supplies when the crash occurred. He reported being stopped at the red light. He thinks there was a brown SUV in lane 3 making a left turn that may have obstructed his view of V1. The driver of V2 proceeded into the intersection when the light turned green and was hit suddenly on the driver's side door. He claimed to have not seen V1 coming from the left. He took no avoidance maneuvers. He estimated his speed to be 23 kmph (15 mph) at impact. His vehicle was towed from the scene due to disabling left side damage.