This crash occurred just before noon on a weekday in the northbound lanes of a high volume, high occupancy, and high-speed interstate highway. The northbound section of the highway consisted of five lanes (with lane five designated as an H.O.V. lane) flanked by paved shoulders and divided from southbound traffic by concrete barrier wall. The bituminous highway was dry, straight, and level with a posted speed limit of 105 kmph (65 mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.
Vehicle 1 (V1), a 1998 Oldsmobile Cutlass, was northbound in lane five traveling near the speed limit. As V1 continued north, a non-contact vehicle from lane four proceeded to cut over into his lane. The driver of V1 steered hard to the left to avoid an impact and lost control of his vehicle. The front end of his vehicle made contact with the left side concrete barrier. V1 bounced off the barrier wall, spun across the five lanes of traffic, and struck the barrier wall on the right side of the travel lanes. V1 rotated clock-wise and came to final rest facing south on the paved shoulder. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1.
The driver of V1, a 24-year-old male, was on his way to meet his brother to go fishing. In his interview, he claimed to be driving along when out of the corner of his eye he saw a blue sedan (the non-contact vehicle) cutting into his lane. To avoid this vehicle he jerked the steering wheel to the left. He stated his car started to fishtail due to the high rate of speed and lost control, which caused the vehicle to strike the wall. He hit the left side concrete median wall almost head on and then bounced off and spun out of control across five lanes of traffic till he made contact with the right side concrete barrier wall and spun around making final rest facing oncoming traffic. A witness stopped and called 911 before leaving to chase down the non-contact vehicle. The witness was gone before this researcher arrived on-scene and no interview could be obtained. The driver was uninjured in this crash.