This is a two vehicle crash that occurred mid-afternoon during daylight hours in the number one northbound lane of a five lane roadway with no traffic controls present. This was a straight, level, bituminous, roadway with a posted speed limit of 73 kmph (45 mph). the road was dry and the sky was clear. There were two northbound and two southbound lanes with a common left turn lane in the center. Traffic flow was light and not congested.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Chevrolet Astro Van, licensed and being used as a taxi, was transporting two passengers. V1 picked up the passengers from an apartment complex driveway about 20 meters (66 feet) north of crash location. The driver then exited from the driveway on the east side, traveled west across both northbound traffic lanes, while initiating a long U-turn into an adjacent driveway on the east side. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Chevrolet GEO Metro with a one occupant, was traveling northbound in the number one lane. The driver of V2 saw V1 turning across in front of her, applied hard braking with lockup, and struck the right front corner of V1. V2 skidded approximately 26 meters (85 feet). V1 was traveling almost east at the point of impact. The vehicles came to rest within 3.5 meters (11.5 feet) of each other. V1 was in the second driveway facing east and V2 was straddling the number one and number two lanes facing east. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.
V1 was driven by a 42 year old male. The driver stated that he was making a U-turn to go into a market as he was entering the roadway he saw the oncoming V2, but misjudged the distance and speed. He thought he had enough time to make the U-turn. V2, the Geo Metro, was driven by a 19 year old female. She stated that she was coming from a school and was returning to her home. She saw V1 come out of the furthest driveway and then begin to turn across in front of her. She applied hard braking with lockup and remained in the same travel lane at the time of impact. The impact spun her vehicle clockwise and came to a stop straddling the number one and number two lanes. She advised that she was wearing the available restraint. She also advised that she has a driver license restriction to wear prescription glasses and was not wearing them at the time. V1& V2 were towed due to damage.