The two-vehicle rear end type crash occurred on a four-lane undivided roadway at the intersection of a three-lane undivided roadway. For northbound traffic there is two travel lanes. The road was dry, traveled concrete with a -3.3% grade in the direction of travel. The posted speed limit is 48 kmph (30 mph). Traffic was light at the time of the collision. This crash occurred during daylight hours with clear skies. There were no traffic controls at the intersection.
Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Chevrolet Blazer with one occupant, was stopped northbound in the second travel lane waiting for southbound traffic to clear to make a left turn. Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Saturn SL2 with one occupant, was also northbound in the second travel lane a distance behind V2. The front of V1 impacted the back of V2. The driver of V1 steered right in an attempt to avoid the collision. V1 continued forward, departed the roadway on the right side and the front of the vehicle struck a retaining wall and came to rest facing north. V2 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest facing northwest in the intersection. V1 was towed due to damage. V2 did not sustain disabling damage. Both drivers were transported to a medical facility. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a twenty-one year old female, was not available for an interview. Tests at the medical facility showed a blood/alcohol concentration of 0.215. Drug test was positive for opiates and benzodiazepine. Upon arrival at the facility, the driver was hysterical and verbally abusive to hospital staff. Past medical history indicated the driver had overdosed on alcohol twice before. Medication consisted of birth control pills. She takes drugs socially including Xanax and crystal meth.
The driver of V2, a thirty-eight year old male was heading to the store at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about four minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that he saw the other vehicle in his rearview mirror, but had no opportunity to avoid the collision. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road daily.