This two-car crash occurred in the eastbound through lane of a four-way intersection. The east side of the intersection consisted of four lanes with a bike lane, one through lane, one right and left turn lane, and a westbound lane. The south side of the intersection consisted of three through lanes, a right and left turn lane, and a bike lane. The west side of the intersection had three through lanes, and a left and right turn lane, and finally the north side of the intersection consisted of three through lanes, a right and left turn lane, and a bike lane. The intersection was straight, level, and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 56kph (35mph). It was early afternoon on a weekend, the road was dry and the sky was clear. The traffic flow was minimal.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Honda Accord with only the driver present, was traveling eastbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Ford Expedition with only the driver present, was stopped eastbound in lane two. As V1 was traveling eastbound the driver recognized that V2 was stopped at the intersection. She then attempted to apply the brakes. She noticed she was not slowing down so pushed harder on what she thought was the brake pedal. She then realized she was pushing the accelerator and not the brakes, by that time it was too late. The front of V1 contacted the back of V2. V2 was pushed slightly into the intersection and came to rest facing east. V1 came to rest slightly east of the impact facing east. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Neither driver was injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.
A 76-year old female drove V1. She stated she was going to her brother's house, from home because her sister-in-law was telling her to come pick up the dog because she was threatening suicide. This was supposedly due to her brother being recently admitted to the hospital for a life threatening illness. The driver reported taking Metroporlol and blood pressure medication. She also stated that she received seven and a half to eight hours of sleep the night before and is retired. She stated she was going approximately 48kph (30mph) before the impact.
A 40-year old male drove V2. He stated he was on his way from home to meet a friend at the bowling alley when he has hit from behind at the light by V1. He stated he got eight and a half hours of sleep the night before and works approximately eleven hour a day, but this was his day off from work