The crash occurred on a secondary arterial road in a residential area. The road ran north/south, had one lane in each direction, was divided by a double yellow line, and was straight with a positive 4.8% grade (if northbound). The road was intersected on the right (east) by a residential road that was an entryway into a neighborhood. The residential road was straight and had a negative 3.2% grade if westbound. There were 2 lanes (one east and one westbound) that were divided by a raised curbed island with a sign marking the subdivision on it. The T-type intersection was controlled by a stop sign for westbound traffic coming out of the subdivision to turn left or right. There were no controls for the secondary arterial. Conditions at the time of the crash were dawn (still mostly dark with a little natural light) unlit, and dry on a weekday morning. The speed limit on the arterial was 64 kmph (40 mph) and on the residential road was 48 kmph (30 mph).
V1 was a 2004 GMC Sierra 1500HD with 4WD. V1 was northbound on the arterial when V2, a 1996 Toyota Corolla turned left (south) into the path of V1 from the residential side road. V1's front struck the left side of V2. V2 then rotated clockwise and side slapped V1's right side with its (V2's) left. V1 then departed the left side of the road and came to rest in an adjacent yard. V2 then traveled north on the arterial coming to rest approximately 30 meters north of point of impact facing north while straddling both travel lanes on the arterial road. Both vehicles were towed from the crash scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1 was driven by a 49 year old unrestrained female whose airbags did deploy. She was taken to a local hospital by a personally owned vehicle (after refusing EMS treatment) with incapacitating injuries. She stated that the car ahead of her had just turned into a school and she had just gotten back up to speed when V2 pulled out from a side street to her right. It looked like he was turning left, right into her. She swerved left to avoid him but still hit him head on. Then she went out into the yard that was on her left. In the interview the driver stated that she was only going “about 56-64 kmph (35-40 mph)”. The EDR from V1 recorded a travel speed of 98 kmph (61 mph) at 3 seconds prior to algorithm enable and a travel speed of 80 kmph (50 mph) at 1 second before algorithm enable.
V2 was driven by a 61 year old belted male who's airbags did deploy in the crash. He was transported to a local trauma center for treatment of incapacitating injuries. He stated he was turning left to head toward the interstate on his way to work that morning. He stopped at the stop sign and looked both ways a few times. Then he thought it was clear and turned. V1 must have been going pretty fast form him not to have seen her before he pulled out.