The interchange related crash occurred at the intersection of one roadway and exit/entrance ramps. The southbound roadway consisted of a one-way, one-lane exit ramp, with an uphill slope greater than two percent. This was an asphalt roadway that curved sharply to the right as it merged with westbound traffic. The exit ramp curve was controlled by an advisory speed sign, which indicated that the highest safe speed around the curve was 16 kmph (10 mph). The right turn only sign was missing on the exit ramp and there was no indication that the street at the end of the exit ramp was a one-way street. The westbound traffic way was a one-way, four-lane roadway, divided by a narrow curbed median. This was a straight, asphalt, overpass hillcrest, with a posted speed of 72 kmph (45 mph). There were no traffic controls for westbound traffic. Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon with cloudy skies and dry roads. Traffic flow was normal.
V1, a 1994 Toyota Camry with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane one of the exit ramp. V2, a 2001 Ford F150 with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane one. V3, a 1999 Mercury Grand Marquis with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane two, staggered slightly behind V2. All three vehicles were approaching the same intersection. The driver of V1 attempted to make a left turn as he entered the intersection. The front of V2 made contact with the left side of V1. After impact, V1 and V2 began to travel in a southwest direction, encroaching into V3's travel lane. The front right corner of V3 made contact with the left side of V2. This impact was followed immediately by a sideslap between the right side of V3 and the left side of V2. All three vehicles continued to move together across the remaining westbound lanes. The front left corner of V1 made contact with a concrete retaining barrier. The vehicles came to final rest side by side, facing southwest. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.
V1, the Toyota Camry, was driven by a 26-year old male, who was hospitalized due to incapacitating injuries. He stated that he was on his way from an auto parts store to a shipping yard. As he approached the intersection, he knew that he wanted to go east, so he believed he was trying to make a left turn when he was hit. The driver indicated that he was knocked unconscious, and did not regain consciousness until he reached the hospital. Due to the driver's injuries, he could not recall some of the details of the crash.
V2, the Ford F150, was driven by a 39-year old male, who refused treatment. The driver could not be reached for interview.
V3, the Mercury Grand Marquis, was driven by a 39-year old male, who refused treatment. He stated that he was on his way home from work. The driver, who was staggered to the left rear of V2, witnessed V2 suddenly encroaching into his lane, causing the two vehicles to collide. The driver indicated that he was not aware of the initial collision between V1 and V2 until he stepped out of his vehicle and surveyed the crash scene, because V2 blocked his view of V1.
V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. Therefore, the Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to the driver of the Grand Marquis. One associated factor for this driver was recognition-related. The impending danger posed by V1 was masked by V3. Another associated factor was emotional-related. The driver indicated that it was a normal driving pattern for him to be in a hurry.