This mid-morning two-vehicle intersection T-bone collision occurred on a four-way traffic signal controlled intersection. No adverse weather conditions present at the time of collision. V1 is traveling east on an east to west roadway. Roadway is two-way, two lane, -15% slope, dry, bituminous, and has a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). V2 is traveling south on a south to north roadway. Roadway is two-way, four lane, +7% slope, dry, bituminous, and has a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). A minor sightline restriction attributed to a building located on northwest corner of intersection was a factor in collision.
Vehicle one (V1), a maroon 2000 Chevrolet Lumina 4 door sedan occupied by a restrained 48-year-old male driver, was traveling east in lane one with the intention of going straight. Driver takes medication (benicar and vytorin) for high cholesterol and high blood pressure. At the time of collision, driver was not fatigued or feeling any ailments. Driver, on a work-related trip, was driving about 6 minutes and was familiar with roadway on a weekly basis. As vehicle passed through intersection, it was contacted on left rear side by the front bumper of Vehicle two (V2). After impact, V1 rotated counterclockwise across the intersection and came to final rest in lane one on east side of intersection facing southeast. The driver of V1 complained of pain and was transported by police for treatment. No airbags deployed in V1 and it was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2, a black 1995 Chevrolet Blazer 4-door SUV occupied by a restrained 51-year-old male driver, was traveling south in lane one with the intention of going straight. Driver takes medication (atenolol, anabrel, and collinadin) and has high blood pressure. Driver, on an errand to pickup medication prescription from doctor's office, was driving about 6 minutes and was familiar with roadway on a monthly basis. At the time of collision, driver was feeling irritated/upset due to feeling sick with flu-like symptoms (sore throat and coughing). Driver failed to stop for red traffic control signal and collided into the side of V1 due to a general state of inattention induced by flu-like illness. Driver may have slightly steered to the right to avoid collision. After impact, V2 continued straight across intersection and came to final rest in lane one facing south. V2 driver was not reported as injured. No airbags deployed in V2 and it was towed due to damage.