This three-vehicle rear end collision occurred on a two-way, three-lane (widening to four) roadway. The intersection is controlled by traffic control signals. Posted speed limit is 64 kmph (40 mph) with an advisory speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). Traffic had stopped due to the traffic light. No adverse weather conditions present at the time of collision.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Toyota Corolla was traveling north in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Mercury Mystique was stopped in the first lane ahead of vehicle one. Vehicle three (V3), a 1997 Chevrolet Suburban was stopped in the first lane ahead of V2. V2 and V3 were initially stopped approximately 45 to 35 meters (114 to 148 feet) from intersection and had just proceeded forward when traffic signal changed to green. The front of V1 impacted the rear of V2. The front of V2 then impacted the rear of V3. All three vehicles came to rest near the point of impact. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. V3 was not towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a thirty-six year old female was heading home from work at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about fifteen minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that she was thinking about an upcoming test and about how she was feeling. As she approached the intersection this driver stated that she looked down at book on the passenger seat. She looked up and saw the vehicles starting to move and thought they were going faster and did not slow down. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis. All four tires on this vehicle were under inflated.
The driver of V2, a fifty-five year old female was coming from a restaurant and was heading home. This driver had been driving for about twenty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver was taking Lipitor and Toprol as medications. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.
The driver of V3, a fifty-year old female was heading home from a sports center at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about twenty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver was involved in a conversation with the passengers at the time of the crash. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.