This is a two-vehicle rear-end crash that occurred in the number one southbound lane of a five-lane roadway divided by a two way left turn lane. There are two southbound lanes and two northbound lanes. The speed limit on the roadway where the crash occurred is posted 89 kmph (55 mph). There is a speed limit change to the north of where the crash occurred which is posted 72 kmph (45 mph). It was morning crash (daylight hours) during a weekday. The crash occurred on a U.S. highway inside the city limits. The roadway was dry, constructed of asphalt and the sky was clear.
Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Mc Donn Swather tractor with one occupant, was traveling northbound in the number one lane. V2 is a piece of farm equipment with a wide cutter bar mechanically attached to the front. Because of the wide width, the bar extended into the northbound lane two. V2 was traveling at a slow speed, 24 kmph (15 mph). A triangular sign signifying a slow moving vehicle was attached to the rear of the vehicle. Reflective tape and reflectors were also noted on the rear plane of the vehicle. Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Pontiac Grand Am 4-door with one occupant, was also traveling north in the number one lane. . The driver of V1 was distracted and did not detect the slower moving vehicle in time. The driver applied the brakes and steered left before the front of the vehicle struck the rear of V1. V1 continued forward where the front plane of the vehicle struck the cutter bar on V2. The drivers drove their respective vehicles off of the roadway after impact. V1 was towed from the scene; V2 was not damaged. Neither driver was injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
A 20-year old female drove V1. The driver stated that she was traveling northbound on her way to work coming from home (5 minutes). She said that she was late for work and was traveling about 96 kmph (60 mph) when she got a cramp in her leg. She said that she reached down to massage her leg. She said that as she reached down, she let her foot off the gas pedal. She then looked back up and saw V2 in front of her. She locked her brakes and skidded until she struck the rear of V2. She said that she did see V2 traveling in front of her before she got the cramp in her leg. She was running late for work but was not in a hurry because she knew she was already going to be late. The driver said that she came back from out of town about 2100 hours the night before. The drive she made was about 3-3 ½ hours. The driver is in good health and takes no medication. The driver has been awake for about 25 minutes prior to the crash.
A 40-year old male drove V2. He advised that he was traveling northbound in the number lane at about 43 kmph (15 mph). He said that he heard tires skidding and then he was struck from behind. He then saw V1 after the crash occurred. The vehicle was carrying cargo, a cutter bar, attached to the front weighing about 44,788-55,986 kilograms (12,000-15,000 pounds). The vehicle was not towed due to damage.