This four vehicle crash occurred shortly past noon during daylight hours. The collision occurred at a four-leg intersection comprised of a north/south roadway and an east/west roadway. The north leg of the intersection is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of six lanes. The north leg's number one lane is a right-turn lane only. The number two lane is a proceed straight lane. The number three and four lanes are left-turn only lanes. The east leg of the intersection is undivided, dry, level, curves right, asphalt, and consists of nine lanes. The westbound number one lane is a right-turn only. The west leg of the intersection is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of seven lanes. The south leg of the intersection is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of four lanes. Both roadways are designated 56 kmph (35 mph) zones. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light signal that was working properly at the time of the collision.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Toyota Tundra, pickup driven by a 60 year-old male, was traveling eastbound in the number four (left-turn) lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Volvo S-70 sedan driven by a 16 year-old male, was traveling westbound in the number three lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 1992 Isuzu Trooper sport utility vehicle driven by a 22 year-old female, was traveling southbound in the number two lane. Vehicle four (V4) a 1998 Honda CR-V sport utility vehicle, was traveling southbound in the number three (right-turn) lane. As V1 made its left turn, the front plane of V2 contacted its front plane. V1 rotated counter-clockwise as it traveled towards V3. The front plane of V1 contacted the left plane of V3. The front plane of V1 then contacted the front plane of V4. V1 came to rest facing northbound against V3. V2 came to rest facing northeast blocking the northbound number two lane. V3 & V4 came to rest facing southbound in their original lanes. V1 & V2 were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 stated he saw a vehicle approaching westbound that was far enough to allow his left turn. As he began to turn, he observed V2 pass the non-contact vehicle and enter the intersection. He could not see V2 prior to the turn because it was behind the non-contact vehicle. The driver of V2 stated that he was traveling in the number two lane when V1 suddenly turned in front of him. The driver denied changing lanes to go around any vehicles.
V3 was not involved in first harmful event, and the critical reason was not coded to this vehicle..