This 3-vehicle crash occurred on a weekend afternoon, on a northbound/southbound roadway with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). This roadway had 3 travel lanes in each direction and the opposing lanes were separated by a raised grassy median that was 5.4m wide with a raised curb on either side. Planted along this grassy median were small, but substantial trees. This stretch of asphalt-paved roadway was level, straight, and the conditions on the day of this crash were both dry and clear. Complete interviews were obtained from all 3 drivers. All three vehicles were traveling in the same direction, southbound.
V1, a 1999 Buick Regal driven by a 19-year old male, was traveling in lane 3. V2, a 2000 GMC Jimmy driven by a 47-year old male was traveling in lane 3 ahead of V1. V3, a 1996 Cadillac SLS driven by a 55-year old female, was traveling in lane 2. Both drivers of V2 and V3 stated in separate interviews that they heard tires "screeching." The driver of V2 was much more aware of this and through his rearview mirror saw V1 coming up behind him at the beginning of the block. The driver of V2 explained that V1 was accelerating at a very high rate and thought to himself that this driver was (verbatim) "... some young punk driving like a jerk." During the on-scene interview, the driver of V1 explained that he had just left his residence and was on his way to pick up his friend who had just finished work at a nearby hotel. They were planning to hang out for the rest of the afternoon. Five of his friends had come to the crash scene and were all making jokes about the incident. The driver of V1 was laughing with them, but as time passed his attitude changed from thinking that this was funny, to being very concerned about soon being involved in litigation. V1 had extra large after-market rims, as well as racing tires. The tread on all 4 tires was worn from illegal street drag racing that the driver of V1 participates in on this very roadway. Later in the on-scene interview, this driver admitted in confidence that he was driving too fast. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V2 explained that he was on his way to work and happened to be listening to his radio, which he enjoys playing at a rather high volume. Even with his radio on, he heard the tires screeching behind him. He stated that because he was in a good mood, he was just going to move over into lane 2, behind V3, and let V1 pass him. As he began to move over to lane 2, V1, unaware of V2's intentions, sped from lane 3 to lane 1 in one vertical motion so that he could pass both V2 and V3. Upon this movement, the driver of V2 stated that V1 struck the right curb and then moved vertically back into lane 2 where V1 then struck the left passenger door of V3, causing V3 to quickly rotate a quarter turn in a counter-clockwise direction and into the front right corner of V2. The driver of V2 stated it was at this point that all 3 vehicles began to head in an eastwardly direction and onto the raised grassy median.
V1 made it halfway across the median before it struck a tree and came to its final rest. V2 struck the curb and crossed the median just to the left of V3 and then crossed 3 lanes of opposing traffic where it then struck the far left (east) curb and came to its final rest. V3 struck the curb and crossed the median just to the right of V2 and traveled across 3 lanes of oncoming traffic where it also struck the east curb. Upon striking the curb, V3 was then redirected in a southwesterly direction, across all 3 lanes of travel again, and then finally came to its final rest in lanes 2 and 3 of the northbound side of the roadway - over 55 meters south of where it crossed the median. The driver of V3 stated that she was on her way home from having attended religious services and had just dropped her friend off. She had only traveled 2 to 3 blocks before her vehicle was struck by V1. She remembered very little about the crash.
No Critical Pre-Crash Event and no Critical Reason were coded to V2 because it was not involved in the first harmful event (V1's impact with the curb). No associated factors were coded to this driver.
No Critical Pre-Crash Event and no Critical Reason were coded to V3 because it was not involved in the first harmful event (V1's impact with the curb). Associated factors coded to this driver included the use of prescription medications to control high blood pressure and diabetes.
Emergency medical services were dispatched to the scene. The driver of V1 refused to be treated. The driver of V3 was transported by a medic unit directly from the crash scene to a hospital with non-incapacitating injuries. All three vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained during the crash sequence.