This daytime collision between three vehicles occurred on an interstate highway in an interchange area. There were speed limit and overhead directional regulatory signs for lane use for various exits. Initially, roadway for all three westbound vehicles is divided, six-lanes, concrete, and straight. Posted speed limit is 97 kmph (60 mph) and no adverse weather present at the time of collision. All three vehicles approached respective exit ramps and continued traveling west. Two vehicles were initially traveling on a section of the interstate highway with four lanes that split into five lanes at a "Y" gore that divided them into three and two lane exit roadways. A third vehicle was traveling on a parallel section of the roadway with two travel lanes. All vehicles were within an interchange area. An 11-meter wide (36 feet) dirt median divided both roadways.
Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Toyota TR5 pickup driven by a restrained 16-year-old male, is initially traveling west in lane three of four with the intention of going straight. In the interchange area, lane three splits into two lanes in a "Y" type configuration with a left and right travel lane. This driver initially selected the left travel lane onto a two lane exit and was in that number one lane. The "Y" area between the travel lanes was now a gore area. The driver of V2 is not licensed or under any medication, took vehicle without permission while parents were out of town. He had driven vehicle less than five times in the past, was unfamiliar with the roadway, and was running late while commuting to work (10 minutes). Based on scene evidence, the driver apparently realized he had missed the correct exit and made an abrupt swerve to the right into the gore area to get into the correct exit lane at which time he lost control due to the high rate of speed he was traveling. V2 began a slight yaw in the painted gore median and then entered the number three lane of the other exit ramp lanes from their left shoulder. V1 then traveled across lanes 3, 2, and 1 where it struck the left front side of Vehicle one (V1) with its right rear side and tire while in a slight yaw. After impact, V2 departed roadway on left side, performed a trip over 3-quarter turn rollover longitudinally on left side, and contacted Vehicle three (V3) left side with the undercarriage. After contact with V3, V2 and V3 remained engaged and rotated clockwise across two lanes of traffic and came to rest on left side road edge with V2 facing west and V3 facing east. Driver was transported to hospital and vehicle was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, a 1996 Hyundai Accent 3-door hatchback driven by a restrained 31-year-old female, is traveling west in lane two with the intention of going straight. Driver, who takes birth control medication, was commuting to work (10 minutes) at the time of collision and is familiar with roadway. As driver was traveling along, driver noticed V2 out of control and headed towards her travel lane. Driver attempted to avoid collision by steering right into the number one lane and braking (with lock-up). Due to travel speed of both vehicles, the collision could not be avoided. V1's left front side was contacted by the right rear side/tire of V2. After impact, V1 rotated clockwise towards right side of roadway, departed this roadway while facing east, and came to final rest on shoulder and median. Driver sustained no injuries and the vehicle was towed due to damage.
V3, a 2003 Mazda Protégé 4-door sedan driven by a restrained 38-year-old female (19 weeks pregnant), is traveling west in lane two with the intention of going straight. This driver, who takes pre-natal vitamins, Nexium, and Excedrin medication, was running an errand while commuting to work (5 minutes) at the time of collision and is familiar with roadway. As driver was traveling along, driver noticed rolling truck in median coming towards her while upside down. Driver had no time to initiate any avoidance actions and was struck by V2 as it entered her travel lane from her left side. After impact, V2 and V3 remained engaged and rotated clockwise across two lanes of traffic and came to rest on left side road edge with V2 facing west and V3 facing east. Driver was transported to hospital and vehicle was towed due to damage.