This crash occurred in the morning of a weekday in the middle of a four-way, urban intersection. The intersection consisted of a four-lane north/south roadway intersected by a two-lane east/west roadway and controlled by properly functioning traffic signals. The north/south roadway featured two lanes in each direction flanked by parking lanes with a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). The east/west roadway featured one lane in each direction and had a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). Both streets were straight and level with bituminous surfaces. The road surfaces were wet due to a rain that was falling at the time of the crash. There was a property on the northwest corner that slightly blocked the view of traffic entering the intersection from the north or west.
V1, a 1996 Chevrolet Blazer 4x4 with one occupant, was eastbound in lane one. V2, a 2002 Ford E450 Super Duty mobile medic unit with two occupants, was southbound in lane two. V3, a 2004 Toyota Corolla with two occupants was stopped at a red light in lane two facing north waiting for the light to turn green so it could continue north. V4 and V5, a 1997 Toyota 4-Runner and a 1999 Lexus G300, were legally parked on the east side of the north/south roadway. V2 was responding to an emergency call with its overhead lights flashing. As it neared the intersection V2 driver engaged the audible sirens as it prepared to pass through the intersection. V1 approached the intersection with a green light but failed to yield to the emergency vehicle. The front of V1 struck the right front of V2. The force of the impact caused V2 to cross the double yellow lane lines and strike the left side of V3. V3 rotated about 10 degrees in a clockwise direction and came to its final rest. V2 came to its final rest along side of V3 with its left wheels in the northbound lane. After the initial impact V1 rotated clockwise nearly 180 degrees and then struck with its front center, the rear left corner of V4. The rear of V4 was pushed partially up onto the sidewalk and also forward where the front left corner of V4 just came into contact with the rear center bumper of V5. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a 33-year old female, was on her daily commute to work. She stated that she had driven less than one mile and acknowledged that she had the radio on and was smoking a cigarette as she approached the intersection. She claimed that her traffic light was green and that as she entered the intersection she noticed V2's flashing lights and sirens. She was unable to avoid striking V2 but stated that she turned her wheel to the right. V1 was towed due to damage and its driver taken directly to the emergency room with non-incapacitating injuries.
The driver of V2, a 47-year old male chose not to participate in this survey and what is known about V1's movements was learned from the physical evidence as well as from two witnesses. Witnesses confirmed that V2 had its lights activated but did not activate its sirens until it entered the intersection. The driver and his passenger were both taken directly to an emergency room for treatment of non-incapacitating injuries.
The driver of V3, a 37-year old female, stated that she had been traveling north with a friend and stopped for the red light in lane two. She explained that she and her passenger noticed that V2 was traveling southbound and approaching the intersection with its lights on. She heard V2's sirens come on as it entered the intersection. She watched as V1 entered the intersection with a green light from the west leg and struck V2. V3 driver and occupant were also taken directly to an emergency room for treatment of non-disabling minor injuries.
The second witness to the crash was an individual who was standing outside a place of business on the southwest corner and taking a cigarette break. He explained an almost identical description of the crash as that explained by the driver of V3 including the fact that the audible sirens were not engaged until V2 was almost entering the intersection.