This crash occurred during rush hour on a clear weekday morning in the southbound lanes of a six-lane state highway divided by a grassy median. There were three lanes in each direction. The roadway was asphalt and dry. The posted speed limit was 89 kmph (55 mph) and traffic was moderate.
V1, a 1994 Mack cement truck, was driven by a 44-year old male. V1 was traveling southbound in lane two. V2, a 1996 Dodge Ram pickup truck driven by a 32-year old male, was traveling southbound accelerating in lane one. A witness was in a vehicle behind V1 in lane two. According to that witness, V2, without signaling or braking, moved to the left into lane two where its left front struck the right rear of V1 (Event 1). The driver of V2 lost control and skidded across the southbound lanes, across the median, and then across all the northbound lanes. V2 departed the roadway on the far left side where it hit a ditch (Event 2) and then rolled up the embankment and then back down the embankment to its final resting point facing east across the ditch. The driver of V1 said he did not see V2 until after he felt a large jolt from behind and then saw V2 out of control. V1 drove to the right shoulder and stopped. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 reported no injuries to the police but later complained of severe back pain. He said that he had just picked up a load and was on his way to deliver it. He added that he was not in a hurry and was traveling about 50 mph (80 kmph) looking straight ahead. He suddenly felt a jolt from behind and looked in his rear view mirrors where he saw V2 careening out of control toward his left. He did not know where V2 came from prior to impact.
The driver of V2 was transported to a hospital with non-incapacitating injuries. He stated that he had just entered the highway and was accelerating in lane one. He said that V1 was ahead of him in the center lane and only going about 25 mph (40 kph). He advised that V1, without signaling or braking, veered to the right where it struck V2, which was still in lane one, causing him to lose control. He also stated that he did not hit his brakes and that when he noticed V1 moving into his lane he steered to the left prior to impact.