This daytime crash involved a single in-transport vehicle and two legally parked vehicles. The crash occurred on a residential two lane, two-way, straight, level, bituminous road with no traffic controls present and a posted speed limit of 48 kph (30 mph). At the time of the crash the sky was clear, the road surfaces were dry, and there were no sight restrictions or road defects.
V1, a 1998 Chevrolet Cavalier 4-door, was westbound; V2, a 1995 Volkswagen Jetta, and V3, a 1997 Lincoln Town Car, were legally parked adjacent to the westbound travel lane. The area in which V3 was parked was designated as a handicap space and was marked by a white curb. V1 drifted to the right, out of the travel lane, and the right side of V1 sideswiped the left side of V2, then the front right corner of V1 struck the rear left corner of V3, and the V1 right front tire snagged on the rear bumper of V3. This impact redirected V3 to the northwest and partially off the road to the right with the V3 front against a tree, but no visible damage to the front of V3. V1 disengaged from V3, then the front of V1 struck the left side front section of V3, and V1 came to rest ahead of, but in contact with V3. V1 was towed due to disabling damage, and the driver of V1 was transported to the hospital for possible injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The V1 driver, a 57 year-old female, could not be reached for an interview. According to PAR information, the V1 driver stated that she "blacked out," possibly due to prescription medications that she had been taking.
Associative Factors: According to the hospital report, The V1 driver was taking Atenolal, for high blood pressure, Lamictal and Geodon, anti-psychotic medications for bi-polar disorder, and Zoloft, an anti-depressant. The narrative in the report indicated that the ER physician suspected a drug effect from a recent increase in the Geodon, which, along with the V1 driver reporting that she slept 5-6 hours the previous evening, versus her normal 8 hours of sleep, may have caused the V1 driver to fall asleep.