This two-vehicle crash occurred at a four-way intersection. Traffic is controlled by stop signs for northbound and southbound traffic entering the westbound and eastbound roadway. There are two westbound and two eastbound lanes that are separated by a two-way left turn lane. There is one northbound and one southbound lane with a left turn lane at the intersection. The roadways are straight, level and constructed of bituminous asphalt. It was an early morning, the roadway was dry and the sky was clear. The speed limit on both roadways is 40 kmph (25 mph).
Vehicle one (V1), a 2001Ford F-150 4X2 pickup with two occupants, was northbound, stopped for the stop sign with the intention of turning left. A large semi was traveling eastbound in lane one, approached the intersection with the intention of turn right. The driver of the semi motioned for the driver of V1 to complete the left turn to provide room for the semi to complete its right turn. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Nissan Quest van with two occupants, was traveling eastbound in lane two entering the intersection. As V1 attempted the left turn, the front of V2 struck the left side of V1. Both vehicles came to rest in the intersection. V1 was not towed; V2 was towed from the scene. None of the occupants were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.
A 50-year old female who reported no injuries drove V1. She said that she was stopped at the intersection and a semi traveling eastbound had stopped to make a right turn. She said that the semi was in the number 1 eastbound lane. She was looking at the driver that was waiving her through. She then went forward to turn left and was struck by V2. She said that she had left home less than a mile away and was on her way to a friend's house. She said that she is familiar with the roadway and her vehicle. She did not make any evasive efforts. The driver advised that she was in good health, did not take any medications, had slept nine hours the night before and did not require prescription glasses.
A 19-year old male, who did not report any injuries, drove V2. He said that he was traveling eastbound in the number two lane at about 40 kmph (25 MPH). He stated that he saw a semi traveling eastbound in the number one lane and had stopped just prior to the intersection. He said that just as he passed the semi, he saw V1 in front of him. He said that he did not make any avoidance efforts. He said that he had left his home on his way to work and that he had to be at work 0900 hours and had plenty of time to get there. The driver reported that he was in good health, and takes no medications. The right front passenger, a 78-year-old male, did not report any injuries.