This single vehicle crash occurred at a railroad crossing in the southbound lane of a two-lane two-way roadway. This roadway has a slight right curve at the crossing and is a level bituminous asphalt roadway. The speed limit is 48 kmph (30 mph). The sky was clear and the roadway was dry. Traffic was stopped due to a railroad-crossing gate being down.
Vehicle one, a 1992 Dodge Dynasty was northbound in the first lane. As vehicle one approached the railroad tracks the gate was down and the lights were flashing. There were two trains stopped on the right side of the road. These trains were on the first and third set of rails. Vehicle one moved around the gates and the right rear of vehicle one was impacted by a train that was on the second set of rails. Vehicle one moved north and the front of vehicle one impacted the railroad-crossing pole on the north side of the crossing. Vehicle one was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
The driver of vehicle one, a seventy-nine year old female was heading to work from home. This driver had been driving for about forty-five minutes at the time of the crash. This driver advised that as she approached the intersection the railroad gates were down and the lights were flashing. She further indicated that there were three sets of tracks. The first and third set had trains that were completely stopped. Driver one stated that she sat at the gates for a good five minutes. She further stated that on the opposite side of the tracks another vehicle's driver was waving her across the tracks. She drove around the gates and was in the southbound lane when she saw a train on the second set of tracks. This driver is taking Diovan as a medication. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a monthly basis.
The train's conductor indicated that the horn was sounding prior to impact. He also indicated that the train was traveling at 40 kmph (25 mph). The train was 60 cars long and was full of coal weighing 6400 tons.