This crash occurred in the evening of a weekday in the middle of an urban intersection. The intersection consisted of an eastbound one-way, two-lane roadway and a southbound one-way, one-lane roadway controlled by a properly functioning traffic control signal. Both roadways were bituminous, dry, and straight with posted speed limits of 40kmph (25 mph). The southbound street was level while the eastbound street had a slight downhill grade. The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.
V1, a 2004 Ford F250 pick-up truck, was southbound approaching the intersection where it intended to go straight. V2, a 2004 Mazda 6, was eastbound in lane two approaching the same intersection where it also intended on going straight. As V1 entered the intersection with the green light, V2 failed to stop for its red light and was struck on the left side by the front of V1. After the initial impact both vehicles traveled southeast until V1 struck a utility pole and came to final rest. V2 drove up a steep hill that was part of residential lawn damaging its front and undercarriage. V2 came to final rest partially on the sidewalk of the southeast corner. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, an 18-year-old male, was on his way to a local convenience store with two friends. He stated that as he approached the intersection he saw the light changed to green and continued forward at a constant speed. At the last second he claimed to have seen V2 and braked, but could not avoid the crash. None of the occupants of V1 reported any injuries and EMS transport was not required.
The driver of V2, a 41-year-old female, was transported from the scene for treatment of injuries of unknown severity. After several attempts to contact her she refused to take part in this study on the advice of her attorney (subsequent contact with the attorney did not produce positive results). A witness traveling behind V2 stated that she was driving as if she was trying to time the lights correctly and entered the intersection after the light had turned to red.