This two-vehicle daytime collision occurred at a four-leg intersection comprised of a north/south roadway and an east/west roadway. The north/south roadway is undivided, dry, level, and asphalt. The south section of the north/south roadway consists of seven lanes, including a left-turn lane. The north section of the north/south roadway consists of six lanes and a bike lane along its east edge. The east/west roadway is undivided, level, asphalt, and consists of five lanes. Both roadways are designated 56 kph (35 mph) zones. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light signal that was working properly at the time of the collision. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one, a 1997 Ford Contour was northbound in the third lane. Vehicle two, a 1990 Honda Civic was southbound in the fourth lane, a left turn lane. As vehicle two made its left turn, its front plane contacted the left plane of vehicle one. Vehicle one veered right and contacted the northeast apex of the intersection. Vehicle one came to rest facing northeast against the northeast corner. Vehicle two rotated counter-clockwise and came to rest facing north blocking the northbound number two lane of the north section of the north/south roadway. Vehicle one was towed from the scene with moderate damage. Vehicle two was towed from the scene with unspecified damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of vehicle one, a nineteen-year-old male was traveling to school. This driver had been driving for about five minutes at the time of the crash. This unlicensed driver has only been driving for one year. The driver had to arrive at school by 0800 hours and was on schedule to do so. The driver wears was excited to return to school after a winter recess. The driver was wearing contact lenses for a myopic condition. The driver stated that the light turned yellow as he entered the intersection and that the other driver turned on the yellow. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.
The driver of vehicle two, fifty-year-old male was driving from a local donut shop to his residence. This driver had been driving for about five minutes at the time of the crash. The driver refused a complete interview. The driver stated that he was waiting for traffic behind a non-contact vehicle. The light turned yellow and the vehicle ahead of him made his left turn. Since he was stuck in the intersection on a red light he decided to make his left turn. The driver did not see vehicle one approaching. This driver drives this vehicle daily and it is unknown how often he drives over this road.