This three-vehicle crash took place in an intersection that was the meeting place for a north/southbound street and an east/westbound street. The four-lane, physically undivided north/southbound street had two lanes for southbound travel and the remaining two lanes were used for northbound travel. For northbound traffic there was a designated left turn lane as traffic approached the intersection. This street had a posted speed limit of 47 kmph (30 mph). The two-lane east/westbound street had one lane for travel in either direction and had a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). Both streets were level and straight, and the asphalt surface was dry and free of any defects. Overhead traffic lights controlled the north/southbound flow and traffic lights on metal poles controlled the east/westbound flow. The crash occurred on a clear weekend evening.
V1 a 1996 Toyota 4-Runner was traveling east on the roadway. V2 a 1995 Honda Civic CRX was traveling north in lane three. V3 a 2002 Dodge Intrepid was traveling north in lane two behind V2. As V2 entered the left turn lane and entered the intersection to make the left turn, V1 entered the intersection intending to go straight. When the driver of V1 saw V2 he braked and steered left in an attempt to avoid V2 but V1's front contacted V2's left side. According to a police officer V3 then steered right in efforts to avoid being struck by V2 as it was pushed through the intersection in an north-eastwardly direction off the right side of the road. According to the police narrative, V2 was off the road on the right and V3 had gone off the road to the right as well striking the rear of V2. This event was minor and barely cracked the plastic cover of V2's rear bumper. V1's final rest was facing east in the middle of the intersection, the car was drive over to the side of the road so it would not block traffic. V2 and V3 came to final rest off the right side of the road facing north with V2 in front of V3 on the north side of the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
Vehicle 1 (V1), a 1996 Toyota 4-Runner was driven by a 43 year-old male and was traveling eastbound in lane one. Though English was not the driver's first language he was quite fluent, and a complete on-scene interview was obtained. When asked what had happened the driver's first statement was, "I look up and see him. (driver motioned to Vehicle 2) I tried to swerve left, but." The driver was asked what it was that he was looking at and he quickly replied, "I was looking, he run the red light." The driver went on to explain that he had just gone out to a local store and that he travels this street on a daily basis. Driver acknowledged that he works a regular 40-hour week and that during the week he averages seven hours of sleep per night but regularly sleeps 10 to 11 hours on Friday and Saturday nights, as was the case on the previous night. Driver needed corrective lenses and was wearing them at the time of the crash.
Vehicle 2 (V2) a 1995 Honda Civic CRX was driven by a 19 year-old male and was traveling northbound and entered the left-turn lane with the intention of turning into the westbound lane of the east/westbound street. Though the driver refused an interview, when asked what had happened the driver stated, "We had the green light. Ask that other dude ..." (driver was referring to the driver of Vehicle 3 who had already left the scene due to his minor role in this crash) "... I went to make my left and he (referring to driver of V1) came on through the red light and just hit me." The driver of V2 then learned that he was going to be cited for not having a valid license and he then, along with his occupants became very agitated. This driver refused a vehicle inspection though the officer in command gave full permission to inspect and photograph V2. No further information was obtained from any of the occupants of V2 though the vehicle inspection showed that V2 had after-market rims on the rear axle, bald rear tires, and rear tires that far exceeded the vehicle manufacturer's recommended wheel and tire size.
Vehicle 3 (V3), a 2002 Dodge Intrepid was driven by a 32 year-old male. V3 and its driver were on-scene upon arrival though left before any contact could be made. Efforts to contact this driver were unsuccessful and this was taken to mean that he did not want to participate in this study. All that is known about this driver is that he was in full agreement with the driver of V2 as far as V1 having disregarded the red light.
A medic unit was dispatched to the scene and left without having to treat or transport anyone. The drivers of V1 and V2 were not injured. The driver and passenger sitting behind the driver's seat in V2 received unknown injuries yet both refused medical treatment or transport. The remaining two passengers of V2 claimed no injuries.