This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. On the east side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a curbed median and the westbound traffic lanes consist of a left-turn lane, two through lanes and a right-turn lane. On the west side of the intersection, the roadway is undivided with six lanes and the eastbound travel lanes consist of two through lanes and two left-turn only lanes. This roadway is straight and level, with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with lunchtime traffic congestion.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1991 Honda Accord, was westbound in lane two, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Toyota 4-Runner, was stopped at the intersection, eastbound in lane three, the outside left-turn lane. The traffic signal indicated a green arrow for eastbound traffic and the driver of V2 proceeded to make a left turn. V1 proceeded into the intersection at the same time. The driver of V1 applied the brakes, but the front of V1 struck the front of V2. V1 rotated slightly clockwise and came to rest acing west-northwest in the middle of the intersection. V2 rotated slightly clockwise and came to rest facing northeast in the middle of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a sixty-one-year-old male, was driving from the hardware store to his home. He drives this route often. This driver refused to provide any further information.
The driver of V2, a fifty-six-year-old female, had dropped her granddaughters at school and was on her way to a store. She was well rested, drives this route a couple of times every week and is very familiar with her vehicle. This driver has several chronic health conditions (asthma, arthritis and hypertension) that are controlled with the medications she takes regularly, including Albuterol, Flovent, Lisinopril, Atenelol, Indomethacin, Sulfusalizine and Benicar HCT.