This three-vehicle rear-end crash occurred in the early afternoon on a Thursday. The location was a rural highway with narrow shoulders. There was a ditch on the west roadside with a steep positive embankment. The roadway was a bituminous two lane, undivided highway. The road was level, it was dry and the weather was clear. The section where this crash occurred was straight approaching a four-way intersection with stop signs. The posted speed limit was 64 kmph (40 mph).
Vehicle three (V3), a 2000 Chevrolet 4X2 one-ton pickup with one occupant, was stopped southbound at the stop sign. Vehicle two (V2), a 1992 Ford F150 pickup with two occupants, had just stopped approximately 6 meters (20 feet) behind V3. Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Nissan Sentra four door sedan with one occupant, was traveling southbound approaching the intersection. The driver of V1 stated she "lost awareness" for a moment causing her to not be able to stop in time for the truck in front of her. V1 swerved right at the last moment and the front left of V1 struck the rear of V2. V1 departed the roadway into the ditch where the right side of the vehicle struck the opposite side of the embankment. V2 was pushed forward into the back of V3. V1 was towed due to damage. V2 and V3 were driven away from the scene. The driver of V1 was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a 72 year-old female, was on her way to a recycle station. She was familiar with the road and the vehicle and travels this road weekly. She is in good health and does not take any medications. She was wearing her prescription glasses at the time of the crash. She stated she has no idea what happened and her doctor is conducting test to determine the cause of her loss of awareness. She was taken to a medical facility for observation and was treated and released. The driver stated she was traveling about 40 kmph (25 mph or 37 feet per second) with a gap of 21 meters (70 feet). At this gap and speed, she did not have time to react to the change in velocity of V2 as it came to a stop behind V3. She did steer right in an attempt to avoid the collision. The driver is 72 years old and maybe a little slow to react. Her "lost awareness" was possibly inattentive to the driving task. The driver also claimed to be fatigued since she worked all day prior to the collision. A witness behind V1 stated the brake lights on V1 did not come on prior to impact.