This single vehicle crash occurred on the exit ramp from the northbound lanes of a three-lane one-way center positive barrier divided urban expressway. The expressway has a posted speed limit of 89 KPH (55 MPH), and the exit ramp has an Advisory speed limit of 24 KPH (15 MPH). The exit ramp makes a 180-degree turn to the right, is downhill and banked to the right. The radius of curvature on the ramp is 50 meters, the downhill grade is 5%, and the super elevation is 6%. The ramp is bituminous, and was dry at the time of the crash. The weather condition was cloudy but clear, and traffic at the time was light.
Vehicle one, a 1998 GMC Sonoma was northbound in the first lane of the expressway approaching the exit. As vehicle one entered the ramp and began to negotiate the curve, it began to slide in a clockwise rotation, departed the roadway left and crossed the gravel shoulder. There are a series of guardrails just off the roadway at this location that have been struck in previous crashes. The damaged rails have been removed, but the support posts remain in place, and the left side of vehicle one struck one of these posts. Vehicle one rolled to the left and struck another post with the top of the hood, coming to final rest on it's left side. Vehicle one was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
The driver of vehicle one, a thirty-three year old male had just picked the passenger up. The passenger was a friend of the driver. The passenger was driving an over the road truck which had broken down nearby. The driver picked up the passenger and was heading to a parts store. This driver had been driving for about fifteen minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that he was not sure which exit to take to get to the parts store as this was his first time driving on this roadway. This driver stated that he waited too long before he entered the curve. This driver had five hours of sleep the previous night and was considered fatigues for this crash. The driver had emotional concerns pertaining to his personal relationships. The driver was inexperienced with the vehicle having only driven it once. The driver was conversing with his passenger at the time, discussing if this was the proper exit to take in order to get to their destination.