This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-way intersection that is controlled by traffic lights on colors. There are two westbound and two eastbound lanes that are separated by a two way left turn lane. The posted speed limit for east/west traffic was 56 kmph (35 mph). There is one northbound and one southbound lane that are separated by a left turn lane at the intersection. The posted speed limit for north/south traffic is 40 kmph (25 mph). It was mid-day on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Chevrolet 4dr Cavalier with two occupants, was westbound in lane one lane approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1976 Ford F-150 pickup with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane one approaching the intersection. V1 entered the intersection on a red light and the front of the vehicle contacted the right side of V2. The impact caused both vehicle to rotate and the left rear of V1 side slapped the right rear of V2. V1 then traveled in a northeasterly direction off the edge of the roadway and struck a real estate sign where it came to rest. V2 rotated counterclockwise while traveling in a northerly direction, departed the right side of the roadway where it struck a large tree approximately 6-meters (20-feet) from the roadway where it came to rest facing northeast. The two occupants in V1 were not injured; the driver of V2 was transported with incapacitating injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. The frontal air bags in V1 deployed during the first impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.
A 20-year old male drove V1. The driver stated that when he got up to the intersection, he stopped for 1-2 seconds at the intersection and then drove forward to turn right. He said that he did not see V2 approaching from his right although he looked both ways before attempting the right turn. He said that he was on his way to his grand parents house coming from a store about 2 miles away. The driver said that he is unemployed and has been awake for about 2 hours. The driver claimed he was attentive and not distracted, he just failed to detect V2 approaching the intersection from his left. He drives the route daily and is familiar with the vehicle. The driver and passenger in V1 were arrested for possible DUI/drugs; results are unknown.
There were several witnesses to the crash who confirmed that V1 ran the red light. One witness also stated that V1 did not slow or stop for the red light before it entered the intersection. The witness observation of V1 not stopping for the red light was also supported by information downloaded by V1's data recorder. The combination of the witness statement, information from the vehicle data recorder, vehicle damage and vehicle trajectories indicate that the driver of V1 was not going to attempt a right turn, but instead “blew the light” and was intending to go straight thru the intersection