The crash occurred on a north/south four-lane highway with shoulders. It curved to the east (right) as it traveled northward with a radius of curvature of 274 meters and a positive 4% grade. Initially there was a grass median dividing the north and south lanes but as the highway traveled north the median ended with only a double yellow line separating the directions of travel. A two-lane side street intersected on the west side of the highway and traveled southeast. Conditions were dark and dry on a weekday evening.
Vehicle #1 was a 1987 Mercury Marquis traveling northbound on the highway. The driver, apparently confused, attempted to turn left on the side street 29 meters prior to the intersection. The vehicle went down a steep 62% embankment, striking the ground at the bottom of the embankment with its front. It came to rest facing south with its rear wheels just on the edge of the paved south shoulder and was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
Vehicle #1 was driven by a 54-year old female that was unbelted and not transported to a medical facility. Two adult passengers and an 8-month child in a safety seat were also not injured. The driver stated she went out the wrong exit from a gas station on the east side of the highway a few hundred meters south of the crash. She intended to turn left on the side street to circle back around and enter a shopping center that was located across the highway from the gas station. Apparently she thought that the street sign identifying the side streets name was on the north side of the intersection as opposed to south and initiated the left turn 29 meters before the intersecting pavement began. She said that once she started to turn and realized the error she attempted to brake but the front wheels had left the pavement and the embankment was so steep she could not recover. Investigating troopers agree with researcher that poor vision could have contributed to the scenario and required her to follow up with a vision retesting at a state driver's license center.