This crash occurred in a T-intersection of a secondary north/south roadway and a primary east/west roadway. The northbound roadway ended at the intersection and traffic was controlled by a stop sign. This bituminous 2-lane undivided roadway was level and had a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The east/west roadway was a 5-lane undivided bituminous roadway with two eastbound lanes, two westbound lanes and a center left turn lane for both directions. The eastbound lanes curved slightly to the left and had a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The east/west roadway had no traffic control device. It was mid afternoon on a weekday, the roads were dry, and the sky was clear. Traffic flow at the time was light.
V1, a 2001 Ford E-150 Econoline van with one occupant, was traveling northbound on the secondary road. V2, a 1998 Ford Explorer utility vehicle with two occupants, was traveling eastbound in lane one of the primary roadway. The driver of V1 did not fully stop his vehicle before entering the intersection. As V1 entered the intersection and attempted to make a left turn, the right front made contact with the right side of V2, causing V2 to spin clockwise and eventually overturn. V2 left approximately 12.2 meters (40 feet) of yaw marks in lane two before overturning, left side leading. V1 was drivable and came to final rest in the center turn lane, facing west. V2 overturned 6-quarter turns and came to rest on its top approximately 41.4 meters (136 feet) from point of impact facing southeast in lane one and two. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.
V1 was driven by a 35-year old male who worked for a delivery service and reported no injuries in this crash. He advised this crash occurred as he was on his way to a make a delivery. He stated he just made a right turn onto the side street with the intention of making a left turn at the T-intersection. As he approached the stop sign, he hit the brakes, but the whole van shook and wouldn't stop. Since his vehicle wouldn't stop, he looked left then right and proceeded into the intersection, where he struck the right side of V1. He stated he didn't see V2 coming, but admits he was panicked by his inability to bring his vehicle to stop, and didn't look very hard to the left.
It was believed that it was the intention of the driver of V1 to come to a rolling stop at the stop sign before proceeding into the intersection. He may have made a cursory check to his left before he came up to the stop sign, but this short period of time did not allow him to recognize the presence of V2. It was believed that had V1 come to a complete stop, its driver would have seen V2 and would have been able to prevent the crash, or the extra time would have allowed V2 to pass V1 without incident. Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include inadequate surveillance, work stress (tight delivery schedule), and being in a hurry. The driver worked a delivery job where the quicker he gets his route completed the faster he's able to go home. His job requires him to work fifty hours per week. He reported having to take blood pressure medication due to hypertension.
V2 was driven by a 26-year old female who was a stay-at-home mother. She reported neck and back injuries as a result of her vehicle overturning. She advised she was out running errands and was on her way to the bank from her residence when this crash occurred. She reported traveling approximately 64 kmph (40 mph) at the time. She was driving eastbound in lane one and saw V1 approaching the intersection up ahead. She saw V1 slow down and the driver look to the right, but not the left before quickly pulling out into traffic, contacting her on the right side. She had no time to take any avoidance maneuvers before the collision. She remembered rolling 3-4 times and coming to rest on the roof, facing in the opposite direction.