The crash occurred in the intersection of an eight-lane roadway with entrance and exit ramps to an interstate highway. The eight-lane asphalt roadway ran east and west. West of the intersection, the roadway was divided by a raised grassy median. East of the intersection, the roadway was undivided and a federal highway crossed over the roadway. The roadway was straight and level at the point of impact. It was slightly curved before the crash site with an 8 percent slope downhill for eastbound traffic. The crash occurred at midday on a weekend when the roadway was dry and the skies were clear. Traffic flow was light.
V1, a 1993 Ford Aerostar minivan with three occupants, was traveling eastbound in lane one. V2, a 2003 Ford Explorer pickup truck with one occupant, was westbound in lane three. V3, a 2005 Jeep Grand Cherokee SUV with three occupants, was also eastbound but in lane four. V2 and V3 had been stopped at a red light. The traffic control signal turned green for westbound traffic with green protected left turn arrows showing for V2 and V3. V1 therefore had a red light. The traffic control signal was working properly. V2 and V3 started to turn left onto the two-lane southbound entrance ramp to the interstate. After initiating their turns, the drivers of V2 and V3 both admitted seeing that it did not appear that V1 was going to stop. The driver of V2 braked without lockup while the driver of V3 accelerated. As the driver of V1 neared the intersection, she braked with lock-up, leaving about 20 meters of straight skid marks before entering the intersection. The front left corner of V1 struck V2's front right corner (impact 1) causing the front end of V2 to rotate slightly counterclockwise. The left front corner of V2 then struck the right side of V3 (impact 2). V1 and V2 came to rest still touching within 2-3 meters from point of impact. V3 drove forward and stopped on the shoulder of the entrance ramp. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1 was driven by a 34-year old female. She had been shopping and was not injured. Two occupants were transported to the hospital with possible injuries. She claimed not to know what had happened but said she was going straight. Her braking and skid marks indicated that she realized well before the intersection that she needed to stop quickly. She was unable to stop before entering the intersection and striking V2.
V2 was driven by a 19-year old male who was not injured. He said that after being stopped for over a minute at the red light he started to turn left when he got the green protected left turn arrow. He said he saw V1 but not until it was only about 6 meters away. He could not stop before V1 ran into his vehicle. The impact knocked him to his left into V3.
V3 was driven by a 49-year old female who was not injured. One of her passengers was transported to the hospital with possible injuries. She was on her way home from lunch and had stopped at the red light until she got the protected left turn arrow and started to turn. She said she could see that V1 was not going to stop so she accelerated slightly. Before she could complete the turn, V1 ran into V2, which then struck her vehicle from the right.
No Critical Pre-crash Event and no Critical Reason were coded to V3 because V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. One associated factor coded to the driver of V3 was a false assumption, because she also assumed that other driver would yield the right of way.