This single-vehicle crash occurred in a rural area on a two-lane asphalt roadway. The northbound roadway curves right with a radius of 329 meters and is downhill. A guardrail is present along the entire northbound shoulder. The speed limit for the area is 80 kph (50 mph). The crash occurred at dusk with no adverse weather or road conditions.
Vehicle one, a 2000 Toyota Corolla was northbound when it departed the road on the right and struck the guardrail with its right side plane. Vehicle one was steered left and crossed both lanes of travel and departed the road on the left side. The driver steered right and slid on the dirt shoulder where it vaulted off the edge of a steep embankment and landed on its wheels at the bottom. As vehicle one continued forward, the left side plane contacted the side of the embankment. The left front tire contacted the base of a large bush, which caused vehicle one to rotate 180 degrees counter-clockwise. Vehicle one continued a short distance and contacted a rock with its right front bumper corner and came to rest facing the opposite direction of original travel. Vehicle one was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1.
The driver of vehicle one, a twenty-three year old female was traveling from another town with 2 friends on their way to go fishing at a lake in another community. She stated that, as she was coming down the hill, which curved right, she thought her brakes "felt funny" and that maybe the right front tire blew out. She was traveling at approximately 96 kph (60 mph). There was no evidence of a tire blowout. She did not understand or speak English very well and was not able to answer all questions. She had slept 7 hours the night before and had driven 85 miles when the crash occurred. It is unknown whether she worked the entire day or not. She does not take any medications. Besides her brakes "feeling funny", her vehicle was in excellent condition. She has had her license for 4 years and has traveled this road monthly.