This is a two-vehicle crash that occurred in the eastbound lanes of two-way, five-lane roadway that is divided by a continuous left turn lane. This crash occurred within the intersection of a driveway entrance to a retail store. There is no traffic control device for traffic exiting the parking lot of the retail store. There are two westbound and two eastbound lanes with a posted speed limit of 56 KPH (35 MPH). It was late morning, on a weekday, the roads were dry and the sky was clear. The traffic was moderate at the time of the crash.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Ford F-150 4X2 pickup with one occupant, was stopped for more than 10 seconds (5 minutes) and had just begun to make a left turn from a driveway to travel westbound. Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 Oldsmobile Cutlass Sierra 4dr with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in the number one lane. V1 then drove forward and began to turn left to travel westbound. The front of V2 struck the left side of V1. V2 came to rest in the number one lane facing east. V1 was moved from the roadway and parked in the parking lot where it had originated. The driver of V2 was transported; the driver of V1 was not transported. V2 was towed due to damage while V1 was driven. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.
A 58 year-old female who is in good health drove V1. The driver stated that she had just left work after working for 5 hours and was intending to turn left to go home. She said that she was stopped for about 5 minutes waiting for traffic. She said just before the crash, she looked to her left and then to her right. She then drove forward and was struck by V2. She said that she did not see V2 when she looked in the direction it came from. The driver had been awake 6 ¼ hours before the crash. The driver stated that she does not take any medication. The driver had worked for the past 4 days from 0500-1000 hours. There were no injuries reported by this driver. She drives the route daily and is familiar with the vehicle.
A 65-year old who is in fair health drove V2. She said that she had just made left turn from a nearby intersection and was traveling about 40 KPH (25 MPH)-48 KPH (30 mph). She said that she saw V1 stopped waiting for traffic. She said that as she got closer to V1, it turned in front of her. She said that she was about 10 feet from the intersection when it turned left in front of her. The driver said that she hit her brakes when V1 pulled out from the entrance but there was no time to do anything. She said that as she got closer to V1 she thought it was going to yield the right of way to her. EMS personnel transported the driver from the scene.