This two-vehicle crash occurred at a three-legged, signal-controlled, rural intersection. The east/west roadway had two undivided lanes of travel and was level and straight. The southbound roadway had three undivided lanes of travel and ended at the intersection. This roadway had a 3 percent downhill profile. Both roadways had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). Conditions were daylight and dry with clear skies. The setting was late afternoon hours on a weekday.
Vehicle one was a 1993 Honda Civic three-door hatchback with four occupants traveling westbound in lane one. Vehicle two was a 2005 International front engine school bus with forty-two passengers. V2 was on the southbound roadway, stationary at a red light in lane two. When the traffic signal for V2 changed to green, V2 entered the intersection and its left front bumper was struck by the front of V1. After impact, V1 rolled backwards two meters and came to final rest facing west in its original lane of travel. V2 came to final rest in the intersection at the point of impact facing southeast. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.
The Honda Civic (V1) was driven by a 55-year-old female who was transported from the scene with minor injuries. She reported being on a leisurely ride from her residence to her sister-in-law's house and had been on the road for 45 minutes. She claimed to have been looking straight ahead, but never saw the red traffic signal. She claimed the traffic light blends in with the trees and sky, and that the state should erect a warning sign, warning of a traffic light ahead. Her daughter-in-law in the front passenger seat noticed that V2 was moving before the driver did, then advised the driver. The driver subsequently locked her brakes, but couldn't avoid a collision. She estimated her travel speed at 40 kmph (25 mph). V1 was towed from the scene with disabling front end damage.
The International School Bus (V2) was driven by a 59-year-old female who was not injured in this crash. She had 42 children on her school bus and was on her way from the school to drop them off at their designated stops. She reported being stopped at the red light in the left turn lane. When the light changed to green, she proceeded into the intersection. She heard tires screeching, stopped her bus, looked left and observed a red car (V1) skidding toward her. V2 sustained minor damage and was driven from the scene. The driver of V1 reported that the intersection used to be controlled by a stop sign and not a signal light. She has observed many people run the red light and believes that they are not yet used to a light being there.