This four-vehicle crash occurred on a dry, four-leg intersection with light controls and pedestrian signals. North and southbound traffic is undivided with seven lanes, northbound consisting of three through lanes and one left turn lane and southbound consisting of three through lanes and one left turn lane. Eastbound traffic is undivided with one right/through lane and one left turn lane. The speed limit for north and south is 72 kmph (45 mph) and for east is 56 kmph (35 mph) and there were no adverse weather condition at the time.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Cadillac Seville was southbound in lane one going straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Chevrolet Suburban was northbound in lane four, the left turn lane turning left. Vehicle three (V3), a 1998 GMC Jimmy was eastbound stopped at a red light. Vehicle four (V4), a 1998 Chevrolet S10 was eastbound in behind V3 stopped at a red light. V1 entered the intersection the same time as V2 was making its left turn. V1's front impacted the right of V2. V1 rotated clockwise and vehicle two rotated counter clockwise and V1's left side impacted V2's right side. V1 continued to rotate clockwise and ran off the north side of the road, down an embankment and came to rest in a field on its wheels facing northwest. After impact two, V2 veered to the left and impacted with its front and V3's front. V3 was pushed backwards and impacted with its back to V4's front. V2 came to rest on its wheels against V3 facing west. Vehicle three came to rest on its wheels facing east. V4 came to rest on its wheels facing east. V1, V2 and V3 were towed due to damage. V4 was not towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a sixteen-year-old male was driving from a friend's house to football practice. This driver had been driving for about eight minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that he was driving and the light turned yellow and he continued through the intersection. This driver had received his graduated license two days before the crash and this driver in addition to being inexperienced was concerned about having one too many under aged passengers in the vehicle with him. This driver had been driving for a total of four months. This is the only vehicle this driver has driven and has driven over this road on a daily basis.
The driver of V2, an eighteen-year-old male was driving home from track practice. This driver had been driving for about eight minutes at the time of the crash. This driver had pulled forward to turn left and saw V1 and assumed that since he had a yellow light, V1 would stop. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road daily.
The driver of V3, a twenty-year-old female was driving home for work and had only been driving for a few minutes at the time of the crash. This driver was stopped when V2 impacted it. This driver drives this road daily and in this vehicle on a daily basis.