This two-vehicle rear end type crash occurred at mid-afternoon at a three-leg, straight, bituminous, dry roadway with no controls at the intersection. The roadway was not divided and consisted of five lanes with two through lanes for eastbound traffic and for westbound traffic consists of two through lanes and a left turn lane for the street farther west. The posted speed limit is 72 kmph (45 mph) and the sky was clear.
Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Subaru Forester Station Wagon was eastbound stopped in lane two to turn left. Vehicle one (V1), a four door, 2000 Honda Accord, was eastbound in lane two going straight and behind V2. After looking to the left, driver of V1 looked forward onto the roadway and saw V2 stopped in her lane. Driver of V1 applied her brakes but the front of V1 struck the back of V2. V1 then skid a few more feet and came to rest on its wheels facing east in lane two. After the impact, V2 was pushed forward and came to rest on its wheels facing east in lane two. V1 was towed from the scene due to moderate frontal damage. V2 was towed from the scene due to moderate back damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.
A 23 year-old female was the only person in the vehicle drove V1. She has heart disease and takes an aspirin a day to thin her blood. She is near sighted and was wearing her glasses. She did state that she does experience work related stress because she works with the public and sometimes they yell at her. This was her first day off after five days totaling 43 hours for the week. She stated she slept 7 hours the night before and felt rested and she normally sleeps 8 ½ hours. She works out everyday for a total of 1 ½ to 2 hours. At the time of the crash, she was listening to the radio and was driving home to eat the food she bought at the mall. She had driven 1.6 kilometers (one mile) and felt rested.
A 48 year-old male with one right front passenger was driving V2. He stated he worked 50 to 52 hours that week and this was his first day off. He is in good health and takes Esseror and a Multi-vitamin everyday. He and his passenger had attended a concert the night before and since they live in another city, they rented a hotel for the night. He had gone to bed later then usual and was able to sleep almost 10 hours and felt rested when he woke up. His usual sleep is 6 ½ to 7 hours a night. At the time of the crash, he was talking to the passenger about the cars in the used car lot they were turning into and was later heading home. He is near sighted and was wearing his glasses along with clip-on sunglasses.