This single-vehicle crash took place on a two-lane undivided north/south roadway that had a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The majority of this roadway was straight and level, but this crash occurred on a hill that required the navigation of two curves. The asphalt surface was free from any defect, though it was very wet, as it had been raining when the crash occurred. The crash occurred on a weekend evening at dusk.
A non-contact Ford Explorer driven by an unknown male was traveling in the northbound lane down the hill. For reasons unknown, this driver made an illegal U-turn halfway down the hill and entered the southbound lane, cutting off the driver of Vehicle 1 (V1). V1 was a 1999 Ford Expedition that was driven by a 34-year old male. The non-contact Ford Explorer completed its U-turn and departed the scene, traveling southbound. The driver of V1 approached as the non-contact vehicle was in the process of making the U-turn. In an attempt to avoid striking the non-contact vehicle, the driver of V1 first steered to the right and then to the left. The sharp steering maneuver to the left caused the driver of V1 to lose control of his vehicle. V1 skidded off the roadway to the left and the front of V1 struck a tree and then a fence. V1 came to final rest on the left roadside facing south. A witness vehicle that had been traveling north arrived on scene at this point. The witness observed the non-contact vehicle pull out from the left shoulder lane (having completed the U-turn), and saw V1 smashed against a tree off the east side of the road. She thought that the driver of the non-contact vehicle had made the U-turn in order to help the driver of V1 who had just lost control and struck a tree. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1.
The witness reported later that as she watched the non-contact vehicle drive off, she felt as if it had somehow caused the crash. She stated that she did not have to chase this vehicle, but simply turned around and within three blocks pulled up behind it close enough to get the license plate number. She then returned to the crash scene to help the driver of V1. The driver of V1 was injured and said to her that the Ford Explorer had cut him off. She said that she had figured something like that and that she had gotten his license plate number. Even in all of his pain, the driver of V1 later acknowledged that this made him feel a better knowing that someone got a license plate number. This witness had already called for the police when she began to look for the driver of the non-contact vehicle. The witness stayed on-scene with the driver of V1 until the police and medics arrived. During an interview with the witness, she stated that she told the police the exact details, though the police narrative does not mention the U-turn by the non-contact Ford Explorer.
The driver of V1 reported that he was coming out of a curve when he saw another SUV (the non-contact vehicle) making a U-turn in front of him. The driver of V1 acknowledged that he was going a little too fast, especially given that it was wet, and that he knew that this was a dangerous part of this roadway, which he traveled daily. This driver was only making a 3 to 4 mile round-trip from his residence to his place of employment to pick up his paycheck. Upon swerving to the right, the driver explained that he thought he could possibly make a successful avoidance maneuver, but given his speed and the road conditions, he lost control of his vehicle and eventually departed the roadway to his left. V1 was towed from the scene and the driver of V1 was transported directly to an emergency room by a medic unit. The driver complained of pain to his back, right hand, right shoulder, right wrist, and abdomen.