This two-vehicle collision occurred at an intersection of a 2- lane roadway and a 5- lane roadway. Both roads are straight and level. The intersection is controlled by a signal with pedestrian crossing and has a speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with a light rain.
Vehicle 1, a 2004 Chevrolet G20 was traveling east in the right lane of the two-lane road. Vehicle 2, a 1993 Chevrolet Cavalier was traveling south in the second lane of the five-lane roadway. The front of vehicle two impacted the left of vehicle one. Vehicle one came to rest facing north off of the five-lane road. Vehicle two came to rest facing north in the intersection. Vehicle one was not towed due to damage. Vehicle two was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of vehicle 1 was heading to a sporting event that started at 1100 hours. As vehicle 1 approached the intersection the driver reached down onto the console to grab a cup of coffee. When the driver looked up again he saw the approaching vehicle to his left. Vehicle 1 was struck on the left side by the front of vehicle 2. Vehicle 1 spun counter clockwise and ended up facing north off the east side of the roadway. Vehicle 1 drove away from the scene.
. Vehicle 1 had just left home to go to a relative's house. As vehicle 2 approached the intersection the light turned from green to yellow. Vehicle 2 entered the intersection it struck the left side of vehicle 1. Vehicle 2 spun 180 degrees to end up facing north in the middle of the intersection. The driver of vehicle 2 was transported to the hospital with minor injuries.
The driver of vehicle one, a fifty-four year old male was driving to a sporting event at the time of the crash. This driver had left home about ten minutes before the crash. This driver indicated that he was a little upset that his other vehicle would not start the previous night and he had to drive this vehicle. The driver indicated that as he was approaching the intersection, he looked and reached down for a cup of coffee. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.
The driver of vehicle two, a twenty-seven year old female was driving to a relative's house at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about ten minutes at the time of the crash. This driver was not licensed. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.