A three vehicle daytime collision occurred just after noon on a weekday. The collision occurred in the southbound lanes of a four lane undivided highway, in lane two. The pre-crash roadway for all vehicles is a straight and level bituminous roadway. The roadway has a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph).
Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Dodge Dakota Pickup, was traveling southbound on the roadway in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Toyota 4-Runner was traveling southbound in lane two. Vehicle three (V3), a 2003 Kia Spectra, was traveling southbound in lane two ahead of V2. The driver of V1 indicated that he was traveling at approximately 32-48 kmph (21-30 mph), when traffic ahead came to a fast stop. The driver of V1 was attempting braking when the front of V1 impacted the rear of V2. V2 was then pushed forward into the rear of V3. V1 was towed due to damage. V2 was towed to damage. V3 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 is a 44 year-old male that was traveling from home to visit his sister. He was not in a hurry, and he reported to be in fair health, he has a pre-existing condition of a prior back injury, which does not affect his driving ability. He has no sight or hearing factors, and was not fatigued, as he is currently not working. He did not want to say what kind of medications he was on. He was somewhat familiar with the roadway, as he drives it monthly. The driver of V1 claimed no interior or exterior distractions and indicated he was looking forward prior to the collision. This driver stated he was following V2 with an estimated gap distance of 1.5 car lengths (estimated at 7.5-meters/ 25-feet). The driver of V2 indicated that she was traveling at a rate of 48 to 64 kmph (30 to 40 mph) prior to decelerating and stopping for the forward traffic. She did not indicate how long she was stopped prior to the impact. The driver of V1 indicated that traffic stopped suddenly because a forward non-contact vehicle had stopped in the traffic lane to make an illegal left turn. There were signs posted warning that it was "illegal to cross the 18" yellow barrier line" at the crash location, so the actions of the forward traffic to stop at this location would be unexpected. Based on the drivers estimated speed, he was traveling in a range of 9 to13.5 meters-per-second, or 29 to 44 feet-per-second. At his reported speed he would need a stopping distance of 5.8 to13.1-meters (19 to 43-feet), plus the distance he traveled during one to two seconds of reaction time in order to avoid the impact with the forward vehicle. Based on these factors, traveling too fast to avoid the collision when the forward traffic stopped suddenly. Pre-crash skid marks from V1 were measured to be about 2-meters (6.6-feet) in length, which further supports that the driver was going too fast to respond to the suddenly stopped forward traffic.
The driver of vehicle two is a 46 year-old female who was on her way to work, from home. She reported to be in good health, with no hearing or sight impairments. She was not fatigued, as she had 8 hours of prior sleep.
The driver of vehicle three is a 56 year-old male of Asian descent, who was not interviewed due to language barriers.