This three-vehicle crash occurred in a four-way, level, bituminous intersection with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). There were three lanes on the north and south side of the intersection, which contained two through lanes and one left turn lane. The east side of the intersection consisted of six through lanes, one left turn lane and a merge lane. The west side of the intersection consisted of six through lanes and one left turn lane. Traffic signals controls traffic through the intersection. The crash occurred late in the afternoon on a weekend. The road was dry and the sky was clear. The traffic flow was moderate.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1979 Toyota Cressida with three occupants, was stopped midway in the intersection attempting to turn left from the eastbound direction. Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 Buick Regal with two occupants was traveling westbound in lane one. Vehicle three (V3), a 2005 Hyundai Tiburon with two occupants, was stopped southbound in lane two in preparation to turn left. V1 proceeded to turn left as V2 entered the intersection. The front of V1 struck the left side of V2. This impact in turn caused the right front of V2 to sideswipe the front of V3. V1 and V2 came to rest on all four tires facing northwest. V3 came to rest on all four tires facing south on the north side of the intersection. V1 was towed while V2 and V3 were driven. None of the occupants were injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.
A 24-year old female drove V1. She stated she was on her way home from picking up the kids from the baby-sitters when she saw the light turn yellow and the opposing traffic start to slow down. She stated that she was going approximately 8 kmph (5 mph) when going through the intersection. She also stated that she received ten hours of sleep the night before and worked approximately sixteen and a half hours in the last seven days. The only medication taken by this driver is birth control.
A 20-year old male drove V2. He stated that he was coming from shopping a block away, on his way home when he had just entered the intersection when the light changed to yellow. He stated he saw that the driver of V1 was not going to stop so he applied his brakes. Driver stated he was going approximately 32 kmph (20 mph) when entering the intersection. He also stated that he does not work and got twelve hours of sleep the night before. He stated no physical problems and is taking no medication
A 24-year old male drove V3. He stated he and his wife were on their way to dinner from his sister's house when, stopped at the stop light they saw two cars sliding toward them and finally V2 contacting them lightly on the front bumper. The driver stated he works rotating shifts and works approximately forty hours a week and this was his day off. He got ten hours of sleep the night before, but usually gets five hours.