This two-vehicle crash occurred shortly before dusk on a Monday. The location was a busy arterial in an area of commercial business and near an intersection controlled by overhead signals. The roadway was a bituminous five lane with two lanes in each direction and a center left turn only lane. The crash occurred approximately 34 meters (112 feet) north of the intersection in lane three and is driveway related. The impact location is south of the area where the center left turn only lane transitions to the left turn lane for southbound traffic. The weather was clear and dry and visibility was clear. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph).
Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Mazda Protégé 4 door sedan with one occupant, was exiting a service station lot was stopped facing east with the intention of turn left. The southbound traffic stopped for the signal at the intersection and the witness's vehicle stopped to allow vehicle one to cross to turn left. Vehicle two (V2), a 1986 Nissan long bed pickup with one occupant, was traveling southbound and changed to lane three to turn left at the approaching intersection. As V1 attempted to cross lane three, the front of V1 struck the front of V2. Both vehicles separated on impact and stopped. V1 was not disabled and was driven away from the scene. V2 was towed. The driver of V2 was treated at the scene but not transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a 30 year-old male, was alone in the vehicle and not distracted by anything. He was wearing a lap & shoulder belt and was not injured. Traffic had stopped and waved him to pull across the two southbound lanes to make his left turn. The stopped traffic blocked his view of V2 and he did not see it until the impact. The driver was not in a hurry, was familiar with the area and not pre-occupied with any concerns. He was in good health and well rested.
The driver of V2, a 35 year-old male, was wearing a lap & shoulder belt and received a minor injury to his right knee. He was alone in the vehicle and was talking on the phone. He was not in a hurry. He was driving home from work and had been driving for approximately one hour. This is his daily route and was very comfortable with the condition of his vehicle. The stopped traffic in the southbound lanes obstructed his view of vehicle one.