This two-vehicle crash occurred in a three-leg intersection on an east/west roadway. The roadway has three through lanes and one left turn lane in each direction that are separated by a raised curbed median. It is straight, level and bituminous with a posted speed of 48 kmph (35 mph). It was mid-afternoon on a weekend and the road was wet with ice treatment and the sky was cloudy.
Vehicle one (V1), a four-door 2003 Honda Odyssey, with four occupants, was traveling eastbound in lane four, the left turn lane. Vehicle two (V2), a four-door 1986 Honda Accord, with four occupants, was westbound in lane three traveling straight. V1 proceeded with its turn and was struck on the right side by V2's front. V1 continued to the roadway it was turning on and came to rest on its wheels facing northwest. V2 rotated slightly clockwise and came to rest on its wheels facing northwest in lane three. V1 and V2 were both towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 6 kmph for V1 and 6 kmph for V2.
A 50-year-old female who reported no injuries drove V1. She was driving from home to visit her nephew who had just had a baby and she was bringing gifts. She had driven 32 kilometers (20 miles) and drives this roadway one to two times a month. She is very comfortable with this vehicle. She knows to turn when she sees a particular motel sign. She stated she was listening to her iPod and thinks she was looking at the motel sign to her left when she started her turn and didn't see the oncoming vehicle. She stated she has hypertension and depression and takes Synthroid, Effexor XR, Prinivil and Hydrochlorothiazide on a regular basis. The driver states she works 1 to 3 days a week on 24 hour shifts. Her shifts rotate and she worked one of these shifts the day before the crash occurred. She also stated that she has allot of things on her mind at this time of year.
A 45 year-old male who reported no injuries drove V2. He had just left a thrift store and was heading home. He had driven 8 to 10 kilometers (5 to 6 miles) and drives this roadway daily. He is comfortable with his vehicle. He stated he is on disability, has diabetes and takes Lipitor, Atenolol, Furosemide, Norvasc, not specified insulin, "In-human" insulin and Aspirin on a regular basis.