This four-vehicle crash occurred on a straight, level, curb-divided roadway, in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The southbound lanes of this roadway consist of three through lanes separated by a painted median from a left turn lane. The speed limit on this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with rush hour traffic and no adverse atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Mack garbage truck, was southbound in lane one, decelerating for the red traffic signal. Vehicle two (V2), 1997 GMC Jimmy, was stopped in front of V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 2002 Dodge Ram pickup, was stopped in front of V2 and vehicle four (V4), a 1993 Chevrolet Lumina, was stopped in front of V3. The traffic signal turned green and V2, V3 and V4 started into the intersection. Due to stopped traffic ahead, V2, V3 and V4 stopped in the intersection. The front of V1 struck the back of V2. V2 moved forward and the front struck the back of V3. V3 then moved forward and the front struck the back of V4. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a thirty-five-year-old male, was traveling from a nearby pickup location to a recycling plant. He was well rested, in fairly good health and familiar with his vehicle. He drives this route daily. This driver has high blood pressure and takes the medications Toprol-XL and Caduet. This driver stated that he was looking at the traffic signal and then in his mirrors as he approached and then entered the intersection. He steered right and applied the brakes when he realized that the other vehicles had stopped.
The driver of V2, a thirty-seven-year-old male, was traveling from home to work. He was healthy, well rested and comfortable with his vehicle. This driver travels this route daily.
The driver of V3, a twenty-nine-year-old male, was on his way home from a duck-hunting trip. He was well rested, in good health and familiar with his vehicle. This driver rarely drives on this roadway.