The crash occurred in the intersection of an 8-lane divided roadway (5 lanes westbound and 3 lanes eastbound) and an entrance ramp and exit ramp to an interstate highway. The roadway was asphalt and divided by a raised curb median. It was straight, level and dry. Traffic was heavy at the intersection and was controlled by traffic control signals. The speed limit was 72 kmph (45 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday afternoon just before rush hour.
V1, a 2000 Buick LeSabre four-door sedan, had one occupant (the driver). It was westbound in lane five waiting to turn left onto the southbound entrance ramp to the interstate highway. The driver of V1 had a green light but not a protected left turn arrow. V2, a 1997 Dodge Avenger two-door, was eastbound on the same roadway in lane three next to the median. The driver of V2 had a green light and the right of way. The driver of V2 stated that she saw V1 start to turn, but then it stopped and then started up again. V1 turned across the path of V2. The driver of V2 swerved to the right to try to avoid contact but failed. V2's front ran into the right front side of V1, dislodging V1's right front wheel. There were no pre-impact skid marks for either vehicle. There were yaw marks from V1 at the point of impact and two scrapes in the asphalt from the right front axle of V1 leading to the final resting place at the southeast curb of the intersection. Both vehicles came to rest facing south with V2 to the right of V1. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1 was driven by a 68-year old male who was injured and was transported to the hospital. The driver stated that he did not remember much of what had happened but he knew he was making a left turn at a green light to the entrance ramp. He said he did not see V2 coming at him. He added that he accelerated and steered left with both hands on the steering wheel and that he did not apply his brakes. He said V2's front end struck the right front of his vehicle.
V2 was driven by a 25-year old female and occupied by a 25-year old male passenger seated in the right front seat. Both occupants reported no injuries to the police but the driver told the researcher that both she and her passenger had received possible injuries and had been transported to the hospital by friends after leaving the crash scene. She stated that she had just left a restaurant with her food and was heading home in lane three, the lane closest to the median. She said she had a green light and saw other vehicles to her right proceeding through the intersection. When she saw V1 start to turn left across her path, she said she steered with both hands to the right and hit her brakes to try to avoid hitting V1. She could not and ran into V1.