This crash occurred in the early afternoon of a weekday in the westbound parking lane of a two-lane urban roadway. The east/west roadway consisted of one lane in each direction flanked by parking lanes. The bituminous roadway was dry, straight, and level with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.
V1, a 1995 Ford Windstar with one occupant, was eastbound in lane one. V2, a 1988 Chevrolet G-series van was legally parked in parking lane alongside of the westbound travel lane. V1 departed lane one to the left, crossed the westbound travel lane, and then partially entered the parking lane on the south side of the roadway. Upon entering the parking lane, it struck the left rear corner of V2. V1 then continued east in the parking lane before departing the roadway over the curb on the north side of the roadway. V1 struck a utility pole with its front left and began rotating counter-clockwise. As V1 continued rotating it struck another utility pole before coming to final rest facing west in the crosswalk of a nearby intersection. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1 and 97 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1 was an unidentified male who hospital workers estimated to be between the ages of 35-40. Upon this researcher's arrival, the driver was unconscious, and rescue workers had to cut the driver's door off to extract him. He was immediately transported from the scene to an emergency room for treatment. The police were unable to identify the driver, as he had no forms of identification. The hospital was unable to identify V1 driver as well. Attempts to later contact the owner of V1 by the researcher and the police were unsuccessful.
The owner of V2 was removing tools from the back at the time of the crash and advised that he had heard V1 approaching at a high rate of speed. According to him, the driver of V1 had no control of the vehicle. He stated that V1 did not take any avoidance maneuvers or try and lessen the severity of the crash in any way.