This two-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of a three-way intersection. The intersection joined a single southbound lane with curbside parking permitted on the west side of the roadway only. The roadway was wide however most of the vehicles parked straddling the concrete sidewalk and bituminous roadway. The intersection also included two eastbound and two westbound non-physically divided travel lanes. The westbound roadway included a single southbound turning lane. There was curbside parking for both the east/ westbound directions and a narrow travel lane for bicycles. Signalized traffic devices controlled all directions of the intersection. The asphalt roadways were dry, level, and straight and there were no adverse weather conditions. The speed limit for all directions to and from the intersection was 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during the early morning daylight hours. The roadway was free of any defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.
Vehicle one, 2001 Chrysler Concorde 4-door sedan, was traveling southbound on the single lane roadway through the three-way intersection when it contacted with its front the left side of vehicle two, a 2000 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan, traveling eastbound in lane two through the same intersection. After the initial impact with vehicle two, vehicle one continued traveling several feet while rotating clockwise where it came to final rest facing southeastward. Vehicle two, after the initial impact with vehicle one, continued traveling eastward beyond the intersection while rotating clockwise where it jumped the southeast concrete curb blowing out the front right tire before coming to final rest straddling the southeast curb. Both vehicles were towed due to severe damages resulting from the crash. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of vehicle one, a 65-year old male, said he was traveling southbound on the single lane roadway stopped at the red light before entering the intersection preceded when the traffic light turned green into the intersection. At about midpoint, the last minute, he saw vehicle two traveling eastbound from his right side across his path, he steered right and slammed his brakes. However, it was too late. His vehicle struck the left side of vehicle two. He insisted on having the green light. There were no witnesses to support or deny his claim. His travel speed was 25-30 mph well within the 35 mph roadways speed limit. He was on his way to work and his supervisor who came on scene said he was an excellent driver with a very good company driving record. He has been a license driver for over 46 years and is familiar with the roadway. He travels on it daily. He was transported to the hospital by medics with minor injuries.
The driver of vehicle two, a 26-year old male, traveling with one passenger, interviewed through an interpreter, said he was traveling eastbound through the intersection on the green light when his vehicle was struck on the left side by the other vehicle traveling from his left side. After questioned about his certainty of having the green light, he said there's a little possibility that the light was 'not green'. Shortly after this statement he had to leave and wouldn't continue with the interview. Only a partial interview was obtained. The driver did complain of pain but refuse treatment. The passenger was not injured.