This two-vehicle crash occurred at an urban intersection of a 6-lane asphalt state highway with a two-way center left-turn lane and an entrance to a business drive. The eastbound lanes are straight and slightly downhill. The business entrance to the roadway is uphill. The speed limit for the area is 72 kmph (45 mph). The crash occurred during late afternoon with the sun low in the western sky and fairly heavy congestion
Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Nissan Sentra 4-door sedan, was exiting a business drive turning left (west) onto the roadway. Vehicle two (V2), a 1984 Chevrolet Suburban, was eastbound in the number two lane when it impacted the left side plane of V1 with its front plane. V1 rotated counter-clockwise as it was pushed across all lanes of travel toward the north. V1 contacted the westbound curb with it's undercarriage and tires and came to rest partially on the westbound roadside and partially in the #3 right turn only westbound lane facing east. V2 pulled off into the business parking lot on the eastbound side. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a 21-year-old female, was flown out to a trauma center and was not able to be contacted. A relative of the driver of V1 was contacted at the tow yard and stated that the driver of V1 stated that V2 was signaling to turn right into the business drive and she assumed that V2 was going to turn right so she proceeded to turn left in front of him. However, V2 was traveling in the number two eastbound lane and would not have been turning right from that lane. The sun was low in the western sky which is the direction V1 was attempting to turn and that might have obscured her vision. A witness stated that the driver of V1 never even slowed down or hesitated while exiting the business drive. Medical records indicate the driver of V1 tested positive for methamphetamine.
The driver of V2, a 30-year-old male, had just been to a grocery store and was on his way to pick up his daughter at a babysitter's house. He was traveling at about 56 kmph (35 mph) when V1 pulled out in front of him. He braked suddenly but had no time to avoid the crash in any other way. He is familiar with the roadway and drives it daily.