This single vehicle crash occurred on a divided, level, cement, three-lane, curved highway, with a posted speed limit of 105 kmph (65 mph). It was during morning daylight rush hour on a weekday, traffic was heavy and the road was dry and the sky was clear. The driver was traveling south in a left hand curve with a radius of 225 meters (738 feet) that is super elevated at 3%. The west edge of the roadway has a 3.1 meter (10 feet) concrete shoulder followed by a W-beam guard rail that leads into a concrete barrier.
Vehicle one (V1), a two door 1995 Ford F-250, was southbound in lane one negotiating the left hand curve. The vehicle ran off the right side of the road onto a paved shoulder. The vehicle continued on the shoulder impacting the end of the guardrail with its front right. The vehicle continued along the guardrail for 5.6 meters (18 feet) pulling the guardrail from the ground. V1 continued another 40 meters (131 feet) and impacted a cement barrier with its front. V1 continued along the cement barrier for 24.7 meters (81 feet), until the barrier ended and ran off the shoulder down a slight hill coming to rest on its wheels facing south. The driver was wearing his lap and shoulder belt and was not injured. The vehicle was towed from the scene due to a bent right front axle. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1.
A 41 year-old male was driving V1 and was the only occupant in the vehicle. He wears glasses to read only and stated he is borderline sleep apnea and does not take any medications or drugs. He worked approximately 40 hours seven days before the crash, with 10.5 hours being the longest and 9 hours being the shortest and has worked three days since his last day off. He slept from 0730 to 1230 and then again from 1900 to 2000 the day before and always wakes up rested until lately. He has been working on his house for a couple weeks so he can sell it and has been very fatigued and not sleeping enough. He stated he was driving home from work and felt rested until right before the crash. He stated he fell asleep and the next thing he knew, he had hit the guardrail.