This three-vehicle crash occurred on a wet, four-leg intersection. Southbound traffic is on a left curve, is physically divided, with ten lanes. There is a right turn lane, three through lanes and two left turn lanes. Eastbound traffic is straight, is physically divided, with eight lanes. There is a right turn lane, two through lanes and two left turn lanes. Northbound traffic is on a right curve, physically divided, with ten lanes. There is a right turn lane, three through lanes and two left turn lanes. The speed limit for north and south is 72 kmph (45 mph) and for east is 56 kmph (35 mph). It was raining at the time of the crash and the roadway was wet.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Jeep Grand Cherokee, was southbound in lane four going straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Nissan Maxima was eastbound in lane four turning left. Vehicle three (V3), a 1995 Subaru Legacy was northbound in lane six stopped at a red light. V1 entered the intersection and was impacted on the right side by the front of V2. V1 then rotated clockwise and ran off the south side of the intersection onto a curbed median where it impacted a light pole with its back plane. V1 then impacted with its right side to V3' s front. V1 came to rest against the light pole and V3 on its wheels facing northeast. After the impact, V2 rotated slightly clockwise and came to rest on its wheels in the middle of the intersection facing southeast. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. V3 was not towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a fifty-seven year old female, was driving to work when the crash occurred. This driver had been driving for about ten minutes at the time of the crash. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a monthly basis. This driver typically takes the bus to work but due to bus driver's strike, this driver had to drive to work. This driver was uncomfortable with driving on the wet roadway. This driver was taking Aforamax and Trazadone.
The driver of V2, a twenty-one year female, was driving home to work and had been driving an unknown length of time. This driver was turning left on the green light when impacted. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.
The driver of V3, a fifty-seven year old male, was stopped at the stoplight. This driver was bringing some items from his house to a friend's house. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.
V3 was not involved in first harmful event and the critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.