The crash occurred in the morning of a weekday in the middle of a four-way high-volume intersection. The intersection consisted of a north/south were two southbound six-lane undivided roadway and a divided east/west roadway controlled by a properly functioning traffic signal. The bituminous north/south roadway had a posted speed limit of 72kmph (45 mph), a level grade in the southbound direction, and a 2% downhill grade in the northbound direction. The roadway curved slightly to the east and was wet due to the rain that was falling at the time of the crash. The traffic flow was normal.
V1, a 2002 Kia Sportage, was southbound in lane two approaching the intersection where it intended to go straight. V2, a 2005 Honda Odyssey minivan, was stopped in the northbound lane three at the intersection where it was intended to turn left. V1 failed to stop for the red light and continued into the intersection as V2 began its left turn. The front of V1 struck the left plane of V2. Both vehicles came to rest in the intersection near the point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a 65-year old female, was uninjured. She stated that she was running an errand from work and accidentally drove through a red light. She braked and steered right to avoid a vehicle turning left in front of her, but was unable to avoid a collision. Her estimated travel and impact speeds were 40kmph (25 mph) and 32kmph (20 mph), respectively. The driver was taking medications for diabetes and high blood pressure. The compact utility was not towed due to police-reported damage.
The driver of V2, a 31-year old female, was uninjured. There was an 18-month old passenger who was also uninjured. She stated that she was taking her daughter to day care and turning left at an intersection with a protected green arrow. Another vehicle then came across the intersection and struck her before she had a chance to react. She had waited for more than 10 seconds to turn left at the intersection. Her estimated travel speed was 24kmph (15 mph). The minivan was not towed due to police-reported damage.