This two-vehicle crash occurred on a 5-lane non-divided asphalt road. This roadway runs north to south with a center painted left turn lane. This road curves right with a slight up hill grade in the southbound direction of travel. This crash occurred during mid-afternoon daylight hours with moderate traffic conditions and no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed is 72 kmph (45 mph).
Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Cadillac Eldorado coupe, was entering the roadway from the west when it was impacted on the left rear wheel area by Vehicle two (V2). V1 rotated counter-clockwise coming to rest in the center left turn lane heading in a northerly direction. An retired 83 year-old female driver stated that she was exiting a business driveway and saw a large pickup in the #1 lane heading south coming towards her. During the interview she stated she was coming from her residence & going to a restaurant to have lunch. She indicated that she has elevated blood glucose levels but was not taking any medication. She stated that she did not see the small car coming up in the #2 southbound lane and entered the roadway with intention of going north. After she started into the roadway the small vehicle came around the non-contact truck and impacted V1. The driver stated that she drives this roadway regularly and did not think she should have gone south first then turned around at a more safe area. Driver of V1 was not injured. V1 was towed damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 13 kmph for V1 and 13 kmph for V2.
V2, a 1999 Honda Civic 2 door coupe, was southbound in the #2 lane and was next to a large pickup truck. She was on her way to her visit with relatives and listening to the radio as she was driving. She takes the medication Prozac for a medical condition of depression. She stated she normally awakens feeling drowsy; however, she was rested and not fatigued at the time of the collision. The driver stated that she never saw V1 on the road shoulder because of the large truck in the adjacent #1 lane that was blocking her view. As she traveled forward, the large truck suddenly applied hard braking and slowed down very quickly. The next she knew V1 was crossing her travel lane. She braked hard but was not able to avoid impacting V1. The 18-year-old female driver was not injured and was not treated. V2 came to rest in the #2 lane heading east and was towed for front-end damage.