This two-vehicle crash occurred on a 6-lane asphalt constructed roadway at an intersection with a driveway to a fast food restaurant. This roadway runs east to west, not physically divided with two-way left turn center lane. The roadway curves to the south with a radius of 703 meters (2,306 feet) and the westbound lanes have a downgrade of 6 %. The posted speed is 72 kmph (45 mph) with no obvious defects and clear weather. The driveway intersects the roadway from the north. This crash occurred at mid-afternoon with moderate traffic conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Ford Expedition with two occupants, was towing a 20-foot sport boat, was exiting a business driveway with intention of turning left to go east. Vehicle two (V2), a 1992 four door Saturn with one occupant, was westbound in the lane three. As V1 attempted the left turn, the front of V2 struck the left side of the trailer of V1. This impact caused the trailer to swing right which ejected the sport boat onto the roadway. At impact, V2 rotated 180 degrees counter clockwise, coming to rest facing east in the center median. The ejected boat and V1 came to rest in the eastbound lanes east of the impact point. V1 was not contacted and was driven from the scene. The driver and occupant were in use of the lap and shoulder belt and not injured. The trailer and sport boat were towed away. V2 was towed from the scene. The driver complained of pain and was transported to a local hospital by a relative. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.
The 39 year-old female driver of V1 stated that the traffic was heavy and that she had waited about 2 minutes before entering the roadway. As she waited her 19 year-old passenger coaxed her into entering the traffic. She stated that she had seen V2 coming from the left side but felt she could clear the westbound lanes with no problem. The driver and passenger had been water skiing earlier and were returning to their residence. The driver rarely drives the route and has only driven the vehicle a few times in the last 3 months. She had limited experience pulling a boat.
The 22 year-old female driver of V2 stated that she was driving the speed limit and had locked up the brakes, but was unable to avoid contact with the trailer of V1. She stated that there was a tractor/trailer next to her and that she could not steer right during the avoidance maneuver. She is familiar with the vehicle and travels the route daily. She sustained a miscarriage approximately eight days prior to the crash.