This is a two-vehicle left turn crash that occurred at a T-intersection. There is one westbound lane and one eastbound lane that are separated by a left turn lane for eastbound traffic to turn left. The north/south bound roadway is not divided and is used to access a residential area. The posted speed limit for the east/west roadway is 80 kph (50 mph). It was an evening on a weekend, the roads were dry and the sky was clear. The traffic was light at the time of the crash.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Toyota Tacoma 4X2 pickup with one occupant, was decelerating in the left turn lane to made a left turn to travel north. Vehicle two (V2), a 1990 Honda with three occupants, was traveling westbound in the number one lane. V1 had just begun to make a left turn and the front of V1 struck the left side of V2. V1 rotated slightly counterclockwise and came to rest in the intersection facing in a northeasterly direction. V2 rotated slightly clockwise as it traveled off the right side of the roadway traveling in a northwesterly direction. The vehicle traveled for an additional 46 meters before it came to rest in the soft dirt facing in a westerly direction. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. The driver of V1 was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.
A 60-year old female drove V1. She said that she was slowing down to make a left turn and looked straight ahead and saw V2 approaching from the opposite direction. She said that she then made a left turn and was struck by V2. She said she saw V2 approaching and had time to make the turn. She thought V2 was traveling too fast. She also said that she had her left turn blinker on just before she made the left turn. She did not make any evasive efforts. This driver advised that she was in good health, did not take any medications, had slept nine hours the night before and did not require prescription glasses. She said that she had been driving for about 30 minutes after waiting in line to cross the border for about one hour.
A 19-year old male drove V2. The driver said that he was traveling westbound at about 80 kph (50 mph) and was talking to his friend who was sitting in the right front seat. He said that he was on his way home after playing softball for the last couple (2) of hours. He said that he saw V1 approaching and then saw it get into the left turn lane. He said that V1 did not slow down and then made a left turn in front of him. He said that he tried to avoid by steering to the right and locking up his brakes. He said that after impact, he steered his vehicle off the right side of the roadway and came to rest in the dirt. He advised that he was in good health, did not take any medications, had slept 8 hours the night before and does not need to wear prescription glasses. There were no injuries reported by the occupants of V2.