This two-vehicle crash occurred at a 4-way intersection on a medical facilities campus. A north-south roadway crosses an east-west roadway at the intersection. The north-south roadway is controlled by a stop sign and both roads have a posted limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The conditions this afternoon were daylight and a light rainstorm had just begun so the roadway was wet and slick.
V1, a 2003 Mazda Protégé 4 door with one occupant, was traveling east toward the intersection. V2, a 1997 Kia Sephia 4 door with one occupant, was traveling north toward the same intersection. Both vehicles entered the intersection and collided. The front of V1 struck the left side of V2 {event #1} followed by a side slap of V1's right and V2's left {event #2}. V2 continued to drive off the northeast corner of the intersection and struck a tree (1 meter in diameter) with its front. V1 came to final rest facing northeast and V2 came to final rest on the sidewalk facing east. Both vehicles were towed due to damage but only V2's driver was treated for minor injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.
V1 was driven by a 35-year-old female that works as a secretary at the nearby hospital and was leaving her job this afternoon when she was involved in this crash. She reports to be in good health and does not take any medications. This driver said she left the parking garage around 02:45 pm and drove less than a mile when V2 pulled out in front of her at this intersection. She was traveling east about 32 kmph (20 mph) and noticed a westbound car (V2) stopped for a stop sign. This driver was looking straight ahead when suddenly V2 accelerated in front of her. This driver claims she saw the car while it was stopped, but did not see it enter the intersection until she drove into the left side of it. She said there was a light rain at the time of the crash (she had her wipers on interval) and the road was wet. This driver was not injured in the crash but her 2003 Mazda Protégé had to be towed from the scene.
V2 was driven by a 47-year-old female that was driving to work this afternoon when she was involved in this crash. She states she was stopped at a stop sign for more than 5 minutes before she entered the intersection and claims that she looked in each direction before she proceeded ahead. She was traveling north and intended to drive straight through the intersection (an intersection she passes each day) but when she entered the intersection, she was struck on her driver side door by an eastbound vehicle. She knows the intersection can be dangerous because there are always cars parked near the intersection that "hide vehicles" but she felt the road was clear before she entered it. After the collision in the intersection, her vehicle veered off the roadway and into a tree. She was transported to the hospital for minor injuries and her car was towed due to damage.