A two-vehicle collision occurred in the morning hours, on a Tuesday. The collision occurred in a busy intersection. The intersection is controlled by traffic control signals with pedestrian signals. The north - south leg of the intersection for vehicle one (V1) is a two-way, six-lane divided roadway. The pre-crash roadway for V1 is a slight uphill grade and straight, with bituminous paving. The posted speed limit for the roadway is 64.36 Kmph (40mph). The pre-crash roadway for vehicle two (V2) is a two-way, three-lane, undivided roadway. The pre-crash roadway for V2 is a slight downhill grade, and is straight with bituminous paving. The posted speed limit for V2 is 40.22 Kmph (25mph). Access to the roadway is not controlled.
V1, a 1995 Mazda Millenia 4 door with three occupants, was headed north through the intersection. V2, a 1998 Gilli Metro bus with eleven occupants, was facing west and stopped for the light. The light for V2 turned green and V2 proceeded into the intersection. The front of V1 impacted the left side of V2. The driver of V1 was transported due to injuries. V1 was towed due to damage, and V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 was a 17 year-old male who is reportedly in good health, with no hearing or sight restrictions. He claims that his light was green and the bus hit him. He was on his way to work, with his mother and father in the vehicle. He is familiar with the vehicle and the roadway, and it is unknown why he did not stop for the light.
The driver of V2 was a 48 year-old male who is reportedly in good health with no hearing or sight restrictions. He was headed to the next bus stop on his normal daily bus route. He had been driving for a little over an hour. He has been driving a bus for 7 years and is familiar with the roadway, and the vehicle. Per witness that was next to the bus, the bus was stopped and proceeded on the green light when it was impacted by V1.