This two vehicle crash occurred mid-afternoon during daylight hours in the westbound lanes of a five lane dry, asphalt roadway. There are two westbound and two eastbound lanes that are separated by a continuous left turn lane. The roadway is straight with a posted speed limit of 56 KPH (35 MPH). the sky was clear. Traffic flow was moderate at the time of the crash.
Vehicle one(V-1), a 2001 Nissan Sentra sedan driven by a 39 year-old male with one passenger was stopped in eastbound turn lane. Vehicle two (V-2), a 2005 Toyota Corolla sedan driven by a 24 year-old female was traveling westbound in the #2 lane. V-1 entered the left turn lane and stopped for about 2-3 seconds behind three other non-contact vehicles also stopped in the left turn lane for the red light at the intersection ahead. The vehicle then began to make a left turn across the path of V-2. The right front side of V-1 was struck by the front of V-2. The impact caused V-1 to rotate counterclockwise and travel across the westbound lanes coming to rest partially in the #1 and #2 westbound lanes facing in a westerly direction. V-2 was traveling through the intersection and struck V-1 just to the west of the intersection. The impact caused V-2 to rotate clockwise and enter the #1 westbound lane coming to rest in that lane facing in a northwesterly direction. The vehicles came to rest within 2 meters of each other. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V 1 stated that he had just left the pizza place and stopped in the left turn lane intending to turn into the convenience store to grab a soda. He advised that he was stopped behind three other vehicles in the left turn lane for about 2-3 seconds before continuing to turn left. The driver said that he did not see V-2 approaching until he already begun to make the left turn and was already in the vehicles lane. The vehicle was towed due to damage. The driver of V 2 stated that she saw V 1 turning left in front of her, she hit her brakes (no lock up). V 2 was towed from the scene.
An associated factor for this crash was the vehicles stopped in the left turn lane that created a sight line restriction for both vehicles involved in this crash.
An associated factor for this vehicle was the vehicles stopped in the left turn lane creating a sight line restriction for the driver of V-2.