This two-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of a two-lane and a six-lane roadway. The two-lane road is straight and level and controlled by a stop sign. The six-lane road is straight and level with no traffic controls. For eastbound traffic, there are two through lanes, one right turn lane and one left turn lane. The two-lane and the six-lane roadway have a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Ford Explorer XLT 4x2 SUV with one occupant, was northbound in the number one lane of the two-lane roadway at the stop sign. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Chevrolet Lumina four door with one occupant, was eastbound in the number two lane of the six-lane roadway traveling at 65 kph (40 mph). V1 attempted to make a left turn while crossing through the intersection and the left side was impacted by the front of V2. Both vehicles came to rest in the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The driver of V2 was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a seventy one year old female, had just left her home and was heading to a nearby area to go shopping. The driver had been driving for about ten minutes at the time of the crash. This driver was in good health, was not taking any medications, did wear glasses and slept for nine and one half hours the night before in her residence. She stated that she was familiar with the roadway. She stated that she saw V2 approaching from her left but thought it was in the right turn lane and assumed it was going to turn right. This driver was retired and not working.
The driver of (V2), a seventy-year-old female, had just left a Wal-Mart store and was returning to her home. This driver had been driving for about fifteen minutes at the time of the crash. This driver was in good general health, had taken an unknown brand name prescription medication for high blood pressure in the morning, did wear glasses and slept for nine hours the night before. The driver indicated that she saw V1 at the stop sign and assumed the driver would yield the right of way to her. This driver stated that vehicle pulled into the intersection in front of her. This driver applied hard braking with lockup and struck the left side of V1 with the front of V2.