This crash occurred on a north/south roadway at a 4-way signalized intersection outside of the city where there were no streetlights. The posted speed limit was 89 kmph (55 mph). The crash occurred in the early evening with no adverse weather conditions. The northbound roadway was straight. The southbound direction had a slight left curve. The roadway was dry and level.
V1 was a 1996 Pontiac Grand Am driven by a 17-year old female. She was southbound and had missed the north entrance to a gas station that she wanted to go to. She proceeded to the intersection to make a left turn, hoping there was a south entrance to the plaza were the driver could enter to get gas. As the driver approached the intersection, she looked to her left to see if there was an entrance. She then looked back to the south and seeing no approaching headlights, proceeded to make her turn. As she entered the intersection, the right side of her vehicle was struck by the front of V2, a 1997 GMC Safari van. This impact rotated V1 counterclockwise to come to final rest facing northwest at the east side of the intersection. V2 came to final rest in the middle of the intersection. Both drivers were treated on scene and released. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 reported that she was in good health and takes no medications. She also stated she does not wear corrective lenses. She stated that she was on her way home from shopping and wanted to stop and get gas for her vehicle. She stated that she had missed the entrance so she drove on to the intersection to see if there was a south entrance on the road that ran east. She stated that she came to the intersection and stopped. She stated she looked to the left and saw the entrance so she looked back to the south and did not see any headlights coming so she started her turn. As she was almost through the intersection, her vehicle was hit on the right side. She stated she rotated to final rest. She stated both airbags deployed but she was not injured. She reported that the EMS personnel checked her over and released her to her parents.
V2 was driven by a 19-year old female who reported that she was in good health and was not taking any medications. She also stated that she does not wear corrective lenses. She stated that she was on her way to a new job and had been unemployed for some time. She stated that as she drove towards the intersection she saw the first vehicle (a non-contact vehicle that had been in front of V1) make its turn and then V1 turned, and she slammed on the brakes and steered to the left, trying not to hit it. She stated that after contact her vehicle slid sideways a few feet, but stayed in the middle of the intersection. She stated she did not want to be hit again so she pulled over to the northwest curb to wait for the police. She stated she that she was checked out by EMS personnel and released at the scene.
The witness (who was driving the non-contact vehicle in front of V1) stated that as she made her turn for some reason she looked in her rear view mirror and saw the vehicle behind her making its turn. She saw V2 strike the right side of V1 as it began to make the turn onto the eastbound roadway. She stated that she was already at the entrance to the gas station when the crash occurred. The witness was asked if she saw any headlights coming north as she made her turn. She stated that as she made her turn there was nothing coming, but also mentioned that V1 was some distance back from her.