This single vehicle ran off the roadway crash occurred on a two lane, two-way bituminous roadway. There are two westbound and two eastbound lanes that are separated by a depressed dirt median. The east/west roadway curves to the south with a radius of 5,625 meters (18,450 feet) with a super elevation of 3%. Rumble strips were present on both sides of the roadway. The posted speed limit is 121 kmph (75 mph). It was an early morning crash and the road was dry and the sky was clear.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Hyundai Santa Fe with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in the lane two with the cruise control set at 121 kmph (75 mph). The driver fell asleep and the vehicle departed the left side of the roadway striking a delineator pole. The driver woke up and steered the vehicle to the right and hit the brakes. This caused the vehicle to rotate clockwise as it reentered the roadway. The vehicle traveled across the eastbound lanes in a southeasterly direction until it ran off the right side of the roadway where the front of the vehicle struck the side of a mountain. This vehicle continued to rotate clockwise and the rear left corner again struck the mountain. The vehicle came to rest near the eastbound number one lane facing in a southerly direction. The vehicle was towed due to damage. The driver was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
A 25 year-old male drove V1. He said that he had been driving for the last 3 ½ hours with about 5 hours of sleep the night before. The driver had been awake for about 4 hours before the crash occurred. He said that he was traveling eastbound with the cruise control set at 121 kmph (75 mph). The driver said that he woke up when his vehicle departed the left side of the roadway. He then hit the brakes and steered to the right. He said that the vehicle began to spin around and departed the right side of the road and struck the mountainside. The driver is in good health and takes no medication. Tests at the medical facility were negative for drugs or alcohol. The driver works 50 hours during the last week and normally gets about 7 ½ to 8 hours of sleep. He had not worked the day prior.