The crash occurred on in the westbound lanes of an east-west interstate highway divided by a concrete barrier. There was a construction zone where the highway was in the process of being widened from three to five lanes in each direction. There were warning signs and barrels throughout the zone. There were three open westbound lanes pre-crash. At the site of the crash there were four westbound lanes due to an entrance ramp merging from the right with the highway. The roadway was straight, level and dry asphalt with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The crash occurred mid afternoon on a weekend when due to the construction traffic was congested with stop and go activity. Weather conditions were sunny, clear and dry.
V1, a 1983 Eagle Coach tour bus with 27 occupants, was traveling westbound in lane two. V2, a 1992 Honda Accord four-door with one occupant was also westbound in lane two ahead of V1. V3, a 1992 Buick LeSabre four-door with three occupants was also westbound in lane two ahead of V2. A non-contact SUV was attempting to merge to the left from lane one in front of V3. V3 stopped and allowed the non-contact vehicle to merge. V2 stopped behind V3. V1 tried to stop but ran into the rear of V2 pushing V2 into the rear of V3. All three vehicles then moved forward and off the roadway to the far right shoulder. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the Eagle tour bus, was driven by a 72-year old male. There were no injuries to any occupants of V1. The driver said he was on his way from a campground to church and was traveling 64-80 kmph (40-50mph). He said not know why but traffic ahead of him stopped suddenly. He said he braked without lock-up in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid V2. The front of V1 struck the rear of V2 pushing it forward into the rear of V3.
V2, the Honda Accord, was driven by a 17-year old male who was not injured. He advised that he was in route to a nearby store from home. He entered the roadway from the entrance ramp and merged to lane two. He said that when V3 stopped ahead of him to allow the non-contact vehicle to merge, he in turn stopped about 1.5m behind V3. He had been stopped one or two seconds when he said he looked into his rear view mirror and saw V1 about to hit him from behind. The impact pushed V2 into the rear of V3.
V3, the Buick LeSabre, was driven by a 29-year old male. He and the 17-year old male passenger in the left rear seat received minor injuries and were transported to a hospital. The third passenger was not injured. He advised that he was on his was from a nearby mall to his mother's home. The driver said he entered the main highway from the entrance ramp and was in lane two. He noticed the non-contact vehicle attempting to merge from lane one to lane two ahead and to the right of him. He said he waved for the non-contact vehicle to go ahead and he stopped. The driver then reported he was struck from behind by V2.