This two-vehicle crash occurred in a dry, undivided, four-leg intersection approaching a light control with pedestrian signals. The intersection runs north to south, with a roadway that has five lane and is undivided and east to west, with a roadway that has four lanes and is undivided. Westbound traffic consists of a right turn lane, a through lane and a left turn lane. Northbound traffic consists of a right turn lane, a through lane and a left turn lane. The speed limit for westbound travel is 56 kph (35 mph) and for northbound travel is 48 kph (30 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one, a 2000 Chevrolet Lumina was westbound in lane two preparing to take a wide right turn. Vehicle two, a 1995 Nissan Pathfinder was northbound in lane two going straight. Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time. Vehicle one was impacted on the left side by vehicle two's front. After the impact, vehicle one rotated clockwise and vehicle two rotated counter clockwise and vehicle one impact with its left side to vehicle two's right side. Vehicle one continued to rotate clockwise and came to rest on its wheels facing southeast in the intersection. Vehicle two continued northwest and ran off the west side of the road, up an embankment and impacted a tree with its front. Vehicle two then slid down the embankment and back onto the road and came to rest in lane one of southbound traffic facing northwest on its wheels. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.
The driver of vehicle one, a twenty-five year old male was driving from the airport to the occupant's home. This vehicle was in use as a taxicab at the time of the crash. This driver works ten-hour days but ten hours of sleep the previous night. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis. This driver had been up for three hours and forty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver was turning right from the second lane, which is a straight through lane.
The driver of vehicle two, a twenty-seven year old female was driving from the store back to her house. This driver had been driving for about two minutes at the time of the crash. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.