The crash occurred on a weekday morning in the southbound lanes of a high-volume, high occupancy, high-speed interstate highway. There were five lanes running southbound flanked by paved shoulders and concrete barrier walls. The bituminous lanes are straight and level with a posted speed limit of 56kmph (65 mph). The traffic flow was heavy and slow due to rush hour and the road was wet from a rain that was falling at the time of the crash.
V1, a 2000 Ford Mustang convertible, was traveling the speed limit in lane three. V2, a 2003 Chrysler PT Cruiser, was southbound in lane four slightly ahead of V1. V3, a 2003 Toyota Camry, was southbound in lane five (the HOV lane) behind V1. V4, an unknown vehicle was southbound in lane four directly ahead of V2. V1 made a lane change to the left into lane four behind V2. As V1 changed lanes the traffic in front of him came to a sudden stop. V1 was unable to stop in time and struck the back of V2. After the initial contact V1 continued left over the paved shoulder and struck the left concrete barrier wall. V1 bounced off the wall and back into traffic where it was struck by V3 as it continued southbound in lane five. After its initial impact with V1, V2 was pushed forward into the back of V4 before coming to final rest. V1 and V3 came to final rest in lane five. V1, V2, and V3 were towed due to damage while V4 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1 and 97 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a 24-year-old male, stated that he was running late for work as he traveled southbound. It had just started to rain and he was attempting to change lanes as the traffic in lane three was starting to slow. As he changed lanes to the left when the traffic in lane four came to a sudden stop and he was not able to stop in time. He slammed the brakes and tried to steer to the left but was unable to avoid hitting the rear of V2. He suffered no injuries as a result of the crash.
The driver of V2, 63-year-old male, was a bus driver on his break. He came to a stop and then by habit looked into his rear view mirror to make sure the cars behind him were able to stop. He stated that's when he saw V1 approaching his vehicle at a high rate of speed. He braced his wheel and prepared for the impact. He was struck in the rear and pushed forward into the car in front of him. He suffered no injuries as a result of the crash.
The driver of V3, 85-year-old male and his wife, were driving in lane five on their way to an immigration appointment. He stated in the interview that he was driving along when the Mustang hit the wall and bounced into his lane. He was unable to stop before contacting the back of V1. Neither the driver nor his passenger suffered any injuries as a result of this crash.
V4 was not on scene when this researcher arrived and no other information regarding the vehicle or its occupants could be obtained.