This daylight crash occurred mid afternoon on a weekday. The roadway was a bituminous five-lane arterial with two lanes in each direction and a center turn lane. The area is commercial business with a freeway on/off ramp and a traffic controlled intersection just north of the crash location. The weather was cloudy and it was raining. The speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph).
Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Dodge Quad cab 4X4 pickup, was exiting the driveway of a parking lot traveling east. The driver intended to enter the roadway and turn right. As V1 entered the roadway it crossed the curb lane and started to enter the inside lane as it was making it's turn. The driver stated he checked traffic to his left and observed traffic stopping for the yellow light at the intersection. As he proceeded into the traffic way he was looking right and V1 was struck in the left front wheel area by V2. V1 stopped on impact, and then the driver backed the vehicle back into the driveway of the parking lot. The driver of V1, a 36-year-old male, was wearing a lap & shoulder belt and was not injured. He was not in a hurry and had no medical, physical or emotional problems. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Nissan Maxima four door sedan, was traveling southbound in the #1 curb lane of the arterial roadway. The driver, a 19-year-old female, stated as she passed through the intersection she observed V1 pulling out of the driveway into her travel lane. She immediately changed lanes to the #2 left inside lane, but did not slow down. As she tried to pass by, V1 encroached into the inside travel lane and struck the right front of her vehicle. On impact V2 continued southbound a short distance and came to rest in the center turn lane facing south. The driver of V2 was wearing a lap & shoulder belt and both front airbags deployed on impact. The driver complained of chest pain and had a small laceration on her hand. She was looked at by aid units, but refused treatment. A small child was seated in the right rear in a child seat and was not injured. The driver is in good general health, was not fatigued and has no emotional problems. She does suffer from sleep apnea, but has no current treatment. The driver of V2 recognized an existing danger ahead, changed lane but did not slow down nor had time to take proper evasive actions to avoid the crash.