This single-vehicle rollover occurred on an east/west, eight-lane interstate with four lanes of travel in each direction. A concrete barrier separates the east/west travel lanes. Two eastbound portions (two lanes each) of the interstate join to form four eastbound travel lanes approximately 100 meters prior to the vehicle's final rest. The posted speed limit for this interstate is 80kph (50mph) and there are no other traffic control signs or devices present. This event took place during daylight hours. The weather was clear and the road surface (asphalt) was dry and free of any defect. The grade for this stretch of roadway is level.
Vehicle one (V1), a white 1991 Plymouth Voyager, had been traveling northbound on a local roadway that leads to an entrance of this interstate. During the interview, the driver of V1 stated that a delivery truck was double-parked in the right lane of this local roadway. Traffic was backed-up because of this and she stated that she may have accidentally cut off another vehicle (V2) who was trying to navigate around the parked delivery truck. She continued on and entered the interstate traveling eastbound. Within a few hundred meters she noticed that V2 was on her bumper and making her feel very nervous. She and her passenger began to discuss the possibility that this was a case of road rage seeing that this was the vehicle that she may have accidentally cut-off, and that it now was driving very aggressively behind her. Before the discussion between driver and passenger ended, V2 made an aggressive move to pass her on the left and then cut her off (from the left). She explained that she panicked and felt that it was certain that her vehicle was going to be struck by V2. She quickly steered to the right to avoid what she thought to be an imminent collision with V2 and in doing so, over-steered and lost control of her vehicle. It was this steering input that caused her vehicle to begin a clockwise rotation and, along with her velocity and the resistance of the front and rear left tires against the roadway, eventually led to a rollover. Her vehicle rolled 3-quarter turns and came to final rest in the right shoulder lane. At final rest V1 had also rotated a full 180 degrees and was facing oncoming traffic. The 'Critical Pre-Crash Event' coded to V1 is: 'This Vehicle Control Loss Due To - Traveling too fast for conditions'. The 'Critical Reason for Critical Pre-Crash Event' coded to V1 is: 'Overcompensation'. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1.
Driver of V1 was transported by ambulance directly from scene to an emergency room where she underwent a full physical examination. Driver was diagnosed with muscle spasms and a motor vehicle crash related neck strain. She was given medication for generalized pain, headaches, and muscle spasms and was discharged within 1.5 hours of arrival.