This two-vehicle crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a four-legged intersection controlled by an overhead traffic control devices. This roadway contains six-lanes divided by a grass median. Northbound road contained two straight lanes and a right turn lane to access the eastbound interstate, the road was straight and had a 2% downhill profile. Southbound traffic had two straight lanes and a left turn lane to access the eastbound interstate, the road was straight and had a 2% uphill profile. The posted speed limit was 72 kph (45 mph) with a bituminous road surface. Conditions were dark and dry with non-lit roadways. The setting was late evening hours on a weekday.
Vehicle One, a 2004 Ford Taurus, four-door, with five occupants was traveling southbound in lane three, the left turn lane. Vehicle Two, a 2006 Honda Civic, two-door, with one occupant was traveling northbound in lane three. V1 was stopped at a red light in the left turn lane; when the light changed to a solid green V1 made a left turn and was struck on the right passenger side door by the front plane of (V2). V2 had been traveling at a constant speed prior to impact. V1 after impact traveled 22 meters (72 feet) northeast of impact and came to final rest in a grassy area east of the roadway facing northeast. V2 traveled 7.8 meters (26 feet) after impact and came to final rest facing southeast in-between lane two and three in the northbound lanes. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.
V1, the Ford Taurus, was driven by a 22 year-old male who was injured in the crash, but not transported for treatment. He had been at a friend's house earlier in the day and consumed one alcoholic beverage. He reported himself, his friends and family had "piled" into his car, they dropped one occupant off at work and decided they wanted to stop at a fast food restaurant for dinner. He reported being stopped at a red light with the intention of turning left onto the eastbound interstate on-ramp. His light changed to green, so he proceeded into the intersection, when he was struck on the right side by V2. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling right side damage.
V2, the Honda Civic, was driven by a 24 year-old female who was transported from the scene with possible injuries. She reports being a full time college student and was on her way to see a movie with some friends when the crash occurred. She reported being in lane three, the far left lane, traveling at 48 kph (30 mph). She remembers seeing V1 traveling in the left turn lane toward the highway on-ramp, and remembered thinking that he would not turn in front of her. As she entered the intersection it was obvious V1 was proceeding with his left turn in front of her. She was unable to hit the brakes to attempt to avoid the collision. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front end damage.