This two-vehicle crash occurred on a five-lane roadway. This road is straight and level with no defects. The crash occurred on the westbound side that has three lanes, two through lanes and on left turn lane. The roadway has a speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Ford Explorer was westbound in the second lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1986 Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme was westbound in the third lane. As V2 was traveling, V1 proceeded to make a U-turn across its path. The front plane of V2 contacted the left rear bumper corner of V1. V1 came to rest facing southeast blocking the third lane. V2 came to rest facing westbound in the third lane. V1 received minor damage and was driven from the scene. V2 received major damage and was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 was a forty-year-old male was not interviewed. The driver informed the police that he was decelerating in the number three (left-turn) lane when vehicle one rear-ended him. This claim is not supported by the damage on V1 and the witness account.
The driver of V2, a forty-seven year old male, was traveling to a library from his home. The driver had an appointment at the library scheduled for 5 minutes before the crash, but could arrive as late as 15 minutes. The collision occurred in front of the library. The driver is unemployed and on disability due to lower back problems. The driver has a bulging disc between his fourth and fifth vertebrae. The driver stated that he becomes uncomfortable only if he drives for long periods of time. The driver does have a handicap placard on his vehicle. He receives physical therapy four to five times a week. The therapy consists of treadmill jogging and stretching with the use of an inflatable ball. He receives therapy for approximately 45 minutes to an hour. He last attended therapy the day before the collision. The driver also suffers from thyroid problems. The only medication he takes is Percocet. The driver was wearing his eyeglasses for a near-sighted condition at the time of the crash. The driver also suffers from sleep apnea and is currently on CPAP treatment. He described all of the vehicle's equipment as moderate. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.
The on-scene witness stated that he observed V1 making a U-turn across the path of V2.