This crash occurred on a sunny afternoon, with no adverse weather conditions. The crash took place at a complicated section of roadway where multiple streets intersect. Vehicle one (V1) was traveling west on a two-lane concrete, level roadway controlled by a traffic signal with pedestrian crossing. This roadway veered to the left then straightens out to continue west making a sort of small "s". At the time of the collision V1 was in the first lane and was going west when it crossed two intersecting crossroads before entering the collision intersection. Vehicle two (V2) was traveling south in the second lane approaching the collision intersection. This roadway is a two-lane concrete level roadway.
As both vehicles entered the intersection, the front of V2 impacted with the right side of V1. After impact, V1 initiated a clockwise yaw as it traveled in a westerly direction, coming to rest facing east. V2 came to rest in the intersection facing south. V1 was towed from the scene while V2 was driven. One of the occupants in V1 was transported. A witness to the collision stated to the investigating officer that the signal was green for V1. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, a 2006 Buick Rendezvous utility vehicle with six occupants, was rented and driven by a 37 year-old female who is taking Actos, aspirin, Lisinopril, Glucophage, vitamins and Zotril as medications. The driver of V1 was in town with friends and family for a funeral and had lived there previously but it had been at least 10 years since she had been back. The driver had nine hours of sleep after arriving in town. The driver was heading to her sister's house to discuss funeral arrangements. The driver stopped at the intersection longer than 10 seconds for a red traffic signal. When the light turned green V1 proceeded forward. When the vehicle entered the intersection a passenger shouted "look out" to the driver right before the crash occurred. The driver did not have time to attempt any evasive maneuvers.
A 26 year-old female who is taking no medication drove V2, a 1993 Plymouth Sundance. The driver was the only occupant. She has been driving 3 years, has no driver's license and was driving this vehicle for the first time. The driver was returning from doing laundry earlier that morning to return to her residence. The driver stated that as she approached the intersection, the traffic signal changed to yellow. She went on to state she applied the brakes but they did not grab. She kept pumping the brakes until she heard the tires squeal. By that time it was too late and the front of V2 struck the right side of V1. The brake system fluid reservoir was extremely low on brake fluid during the post crash inspection. There was some resistance when pressure to the brake pedal was applied.