The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a section of interstate highway that ran north/south. There were three northbound lanes with paved shoulders that were separated from the southbound lanes (3 of them also) by a wide grass median. The interstate had a slight curve right (if northbound) with the radius measuring 2470 meters. There was a negative grade of 3.1% at 150 meters precrash and a positive grade of 3.7% at 50 meters precrash. The right (east) side of the highway had a negative side slope measuring -20.8% and drainage ditch about 6.5 meters east of the pavements edge. East of that was an embankment with a positive 29.1% grade. The speed limit on the interstate was 89kph/55mph. Conditions at the time were daylight and dry at mid afternoon on a weekday.
V1 was a 1999 Ford F150 pickup traveling north on the interstate in lane #2. Its bed was loaded with construction tools and materials. V1 was pulling a trailer that was about 24 feet long. The trailer had an aftermarket overhead ladder rack that was loaded with no fewer than ten, 20-foot long extension ladders. The bed of the trailer was loaded with more construction materials. An unknown vehicle maneuver in front of V1 causing V1 to swerve left and then overcorrect to its right causing the trailer to jackknife to the left and contact the back of V1sending V1 into a clockwise skid/yaw that took it off the right side of the road where V1 then rolled down into the ditch 2-1/4 turns to its left coming to rest with the greenhouse in the ditch and the rear of the truck up the embankment. V1 came to rest facing west. The trailer came to rest facing east but was on its left side about 3 meters north of V1. V1 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
V1 was driven by a thirty three year old unrestrained male who was transported to a local trauma center for treatment of non-incapacitating injuries. None of the other four occupants were restrained either although they all refused medical treatment.