This three-vehicle crash occurred in the southbound lanes in a three-way intersection. The north/south roadway had four northbound lanes (one left-turn) and two southbound lanes with a concrete island separating the two directions. There was a 3-lane side street on the west side of the intersection that ended at the intersection. The intersection was controlled by a pre-timed, pedestrian-actuated traffic signal and a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph.) The weather was clear and sunny this weekday afternoon and traffic was light.
V1, a 1997 Infiniti QX4 (V1) with two occupants, was traveling north in lane four. V2, a 1995 Chrysler Concorde with one occupant, was traveling south in lane two. V3, a 2004 Chevrolet Aveo with one occupant, was traveling south in lane one. All three vehicles were approaching the same intersection. V1 entered the intersection on a green light and turned left across the path of V2. V2 and V3 also had a green light and both entered the intersection. V2 was slightly ahead of V3 and was the first to strike V1 on the right side. V3 subsequently struck the undercarriage of V1 as it was overturning in the intersection. V1 rolled to its left one-quarter times and came to final rest in the southwest corner of the intersection. V2 came to final rest at the point of impact and V3 drove approximately 27 meters south of its impact where it came to rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.
V1 was driven by a 31-year old male who was driving to the grocery store this afternoon when he was involved in this crash. He said he was following a non-contact vehicle too closely when he followed it into the intersection to made a left turn. He entered the intersection and turned in front V2. He says his SUV rolled one-quarter times and came to final rest on its left side. His vehicle had to be towed from the scene because of disabling damage. He was not injured in the crash but his wife was transported to a local hospital. This driver admitted he was talking to his wife when he was driving.
V2 was driven by a 34-year old male who worked as a clerk at a local gas station. He was driving home (south) in lane two, and as he approached the intersection, he noticed some southbound vehicles turning in front of him. When he neared the intersection, several non-contact vehicles had completed their left turns in front of him without any trouble but an SUV (V1) trailing the pack of vehicles turned without any clearance. This driver never saw V1 until it was directly in front of him and he could not avoid it. He simultaneously used his brakes when he collided into the right side of V1. He suffered a minor bruise to his leg and initially declined treatment but his employer arrived on scene and encouraged him to go to a hospital for observation. His vehicle had to be towed from the scene because of the damage from in the crash.
V3 was driven by a 47-year old male who worked part-time as a cook. He was on break this afternoon and was headed to an electronics store when he was involved in this crash.
This driver stated he was driving south in lane one, at approximately 40 mph, with a vehicle (V2) to his left as they both approached an intersecting road. He said his traffic signal was green and confirmed there was northbound traffic turning left at the intersection as he moved toward it. After entering the intersection, he realized V2 had collided with a northbound SUV (V1) and subsequently V1 rolled onto his hood. Following the impact, he was able to drive to the right side of the road where he drove to a stop. He was able to drive his car home and he was not injured in the crash. He was driving roughly one car-length behind V2 (in the adjacent lane) as they entered the intersection and said he never saw before the crash occurred.
No Critical Pre-crash Event and no Critical Reason were coded to this vehicle because it was not involved in the first harmful event. A sightline restriction was coded as an associated factor because the non-contact vehicles that made their left turn before V1 blocked the driver's view of V1.