This single-vehicle crash occurred in a rural area with various curves and elevations on a four-lane physically divided roadway. The median is extended and includes hills. The two southbound lanes curve left and is downhill. The posted speed limit for the area is 88 kmph (55 mph) with a posted advisory speed of 72 kmph (45 mph). There are warning signs for the curve and downhill elevation as well as rumble strips bordering the lanes and rumble strips crossing both lanes at intervals prior to the curve. A light rainstorm had ended shortly before the crash occurred in the late afternoon and the roadway was wet.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Chevrolet Tracker was southbound in the second lane when it hydro-planed on the wet roadway, crossed both lanes to the right where it departed the road edge and with its front end plane impacted the side of an embankment. The vehicle rotated clockwise and rolled onto its left side where it spun around clockwise 180 degrees. V1 then returned to its wheels and came to rest facing east in a dirt pullout on the right side of the roadway. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1.
The driver of V1, a twenty-three year-old female, was traveling with a friend back to their place of residence in another town after spending a few hours at a campsite with her brother and some friends. She stated her travel speed as 88 kmph - 96 kmph (55 mph - 60 mph) and that it had stopped raining just before the crash happened. She felt her tires lose contact with the road and as she crossed the lanes toward the mountainside she held the steering wheel straight and closed her eyes. She stated that it felt like they rolled around before they ended up on the side of the road. The night before, she enjoyed 8 1/2 hours of sleep and worked a 40-hour workweek as well as a full-time college class schedule. She has traveled on this roadway a dozen times in the past year. The driver had been thinking of school projects that were due soon and her passenger was reading a book just prior to the crash. Less than a year ago, the driver completed her 2nd defensive driving course for speeding tickets received in the past.