This two-vehicle rear end crash occurred at a "T" type intersection in a rural area. The main road consists of two lanes and runs north to south with a side road intersecting on the east side of the roadway. The intersection is controlled by a stop sign for the traffic leaving the side road. The southbound asphalt roadway is straight and slightly downhill. The speed limit for the area is 72 kmph (45 mph). There are no shoulders, either improved or sod. For the southbound lanes, the roadside slopes down at a steep angle. North of the intersection, solid double yellow lines identify the centerline of the roadway. The crash occurred during the morning with no adverse weather or road conditions present.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Dodge Avenger 2-door coupe with one occupant, was southbound following vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Chevrolet Venture mini-van with three occupants. V2 stopped to turn left at the intersection. The driver of V1 braked and steered right but the front left of V1 struck the back right of V2. V1 rotated counter-clockwise and came to rest just off the right road edge facing southeast. V2 rotated counter-clockwise slightly and came to rest in the southbound lane facing southeast. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The driver of V1 was transported to a local trauma center. The three occupants of V2 were not treated. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1 and 80 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a 20-year-old male, was on his way to work. He is employed as a fire-fighter and EMT with the local fire department and also fights fires for the forest service during the summer. He slept for 8 hours the night before and gets an average of 7 hours of sleep each night. He stated his fire crew is short of help and he worked 13 - 17 hours a day for the last 45 days with no time off. Just prior to the crash, the driver looked and reached for his hand-held radio sitting on the right front passenger seat. He needed to turn the volume up to listen to any dispatches. When he looked forward again, the other vehicle had suddenly stopped in the lane. He braked, geared down and steered as far right as he could without going over the embankment edge but impacted the rear of the van. His vehicle was is good working condition and he drives the road daily.
The driver of V2, a 53-year-old male and his 2 passengers, were stopped intending to turn left onto the side road that leads to a hiking trail. A witness stated that V2 was in use of the left turn signal and that V1 was traveling too fast. The driver of V2 was unable to be contacted.