This three-car crash occurred at an intersection with two divided roadways that intersect at an angle. The north/south roadway curves to the east with a radius of 24 meters (78 feet). It is a two-lane divided (four lanes overall) with a concrete surface. The east/west roadway prior to the scene curves to the south but through the scene is straight and level. It is also a two lane (four lanes overall) roadway with a concrete surface. The speed limit for the roadways is 54 kph (35 mph) for the east\west roadway, and 48 kmph (30 mph) for the north/south roadway. There is a stop sign for the north/south roadway. The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash. It was late afternoon on a weekday just before the rush hour, and there was increasing traffic on the roadways.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Chevrolet Malibu with five occupants was traveling south in the second lane of traffic approaching the intersection of both roadways. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Ford Escort with one occupant, was traveling west in the first lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 2000 Mazda Protégé with three occupants was also traveling west in lane two a short distance behind V2. V1 entered the intersection without stopping at the stop sign and the front of V2 struck the left side of V1. V2 came to rest facing west adjacent to the impact point. At about the same time of the first impact, the front of V3 struck the front of V1. At impact V3 rotated counter clockwise, the right rear corner struck the left passenger side of V2 where both vehicles came to rest. V1, after impact with V3, rotated counterclockwise as it moved backward and entered the median where it came to rest. The right side axles on V1 fractured when the vehicle mounted the curbed median. V1 and V 3 were towed from the scene. V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V3, the 2000 Mazda Protégé was driven by a 29-year old male, who suffered several cuts and bruises in this crash. He was heading to a local restaurant for a light dinner. His work shift was to start later that day. Prior to the crash he was talking to his wife, the right front occupant. The conversation revolved around the wife's evening activities. Despite the conversation the driver was looking straight ahead, concentrating on the roadway. He stated he did not see V1 approaching the intersection due to V2 driving ahead of him, limiting his line of sight on his right side. He did not have time to attempt any evasive maneuvers. He is familiar with the vehicle but rarely drives the route. V3 was not involved in the first harmful event.