The crash occurred on a primary arterial road that ran north/south, and had five lanes narrowing to four at the crash location. There were three northbound lanes and two eastbound and instead of the highway being separated by a standard double yellow line the two yellow centerlines had a gap of 0.7m. Lane 1 was originally a northbound on ramp that slowly merged traffic left into lane 2, which was the right northbound through lane. Lane 3 was the left northbound through lane. Lanes 4 and 5 were the left and then right southbound through lanes (in that order). Both shoulders were paved. Northbound traffic had a positive 4 percent grade that leveled out in the crash area. The speed limit was 80kph/50mph. Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight and dry.
V1 was a 2006 Toyota Camry traveling north in lane three when it encountered V2, a 1998 GMC 1500 Z71 pickup truck that was stopped in lane three waiting to turn left into a private drive. V1 applied the brakes (full ABS application) and skidded into the back of V2. V1's front left made contact with V2's back right. V2 came to rest facing its original travel direction only a few meters north of impact. V1 came to rest facing slight northwest with most of the vehicle still in its original lane but partially over the right lane line. V1 was towed from the scene and V2 was driven away with bumper damage only. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1 was driven by an eighty six year old belted female who was listed as having possible injuries in the crash. She was not transported anywhere for treatment. The airbags in V1 did not deploy but this is believed to be due to the fact that the driver of V1 being only 4'9” had her seat positioned too close to the instrument panel for deployment to occur. She was driving herself to dialysis at the time of the crash.
V2 was driven by a twenty five year old belted male who along with his fifteen-year-old male passenger was uninjured in the crash. He was on his way back to a jobsite from a supply store at the time of the crash.