A two-vehicle daytime collision occurred at noon on a Friday. The collision occurred in the westbound lanes of a two-way, five-lane, undivided bituminous roadway. The pre-crash roadway is level and straight. The roadway was dry, and the weather clear. Access to the roadway is not controlled. The posted speed limit for the roadway is 56.31 kmph (35 mph). Traffic was congested in the two westbound travel lanes.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Subaru Impreza Station Wagon, was stopped facing eastbound in lane three (the center turn lane), preparing to turn left to head northbound into a private driveway. Vehicle two (V2) a 2005 Dodge Caravan was traveling westbound in lane 1. Westbound traffic was congested and a gap in the traffic formed enabling V1 to turn left into the private driveway. The front of V2 impacted the right front of V1. V1 rotated counter-clockwise and came to rest facing northeast in straddling lane 1 and 2 of the westbound lanes. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 was a 26-year-old female who is reportedly in good health, with no hearing restrictions, her vision is corrected with lenses, and the only medication she takes is Mircette for birth control. She was on her way back to the office, after running to pick up lunch. It is unknown if she was fatigued, as she claims she had 6.5 hours of sleep that was interrupted. She stated she was rested, usually gets 6.5 hours of sleep, and is familiar with the roadway as she drives it daily.
The driver of V2 was a 76-year-old male who is reportedly in good health, with no hearing or sight restrictions. He was well rested, does not work, and takes the following medications: Zocor, Atenelol, Aspirin and Lisinopril. He and his wife had been visiting family approximately 153-kilometers (95-miles) from where the collision occurred. They were heading home and were not far from home when the crash occurred. He and his wife had been talking about candy at the time, and he reports he was not distracted. Driver two stated the other vehicle might have been waved through from the other uninvolved vehicles in lane two that left a gap for V1 to go through.