The two-vehicle crash occurred in the northbound lane of a two-lane, physically undivided roadway. This road has a slight curve to the right in the southbound direction, it is a level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 40 kmph (25 mph). This crash took place on a cloudy weekday morning. The road surface was dry and the traffic was very light. There was one set of trolley tracks in each lane.
V1, a 1992 Ford Probe two door with driver as the only occupant, was traveling southbound in lane one. V2, a 1998 Dodge Stratus four door with two occupants, was traveling opposite V1 in lane one, the northbound lane. As V2 was traveling straight, V1 attempted to make a left turn onto an intersecting east/westbound street and in doing so, the front of V1 struck the front left of V2. Upon impact, V1 was pushed backwards in a northeastwardly direction across its original southbound travel lane where it then departed the roadway and came to its final rest with only its front left and right tires still on the roadway. After being struck by V1, V2 continued northbound in its original travel lane and came to its final rest approximately 10 meters (32 feet) from the point of impact. There were no traffic control devices present and traffic was not required to stop as it passed this intersecting street. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
V1, the 1992 Ford Probe, was driven by a 49-year old male and had already been transported to an emergency room upon researcher's arrival. It was later learned through a relative of V1 that V1 driver was totally deaf. Driver's relative described the crash events as told to her by V1 driver. She explained that V1 driver was on his regular daily commute to work and that this was the route that he used. She stated that V1 driver couldn't explain how or why he had turned in front of oncoming traffic. V1 driver suffered multiple injuries and spent 5 nights in the hospital. Among his injuries were a laceration to the head, lacerations inside of the mouth, a fractured left forearm, a fractured left wrist, and bruising to his chest. It was later learned from V1 driver's relative that V1 driver eventually lost a number of front teeth and was in need of surgery to repair his left wrist.
V2, the 1998 Dodge Stratus, was driven by a 20-year old female and had already been transported to an emergency room upon researcher's arrival. V2 occupant stated that he was uninjured and explained that he and V2 driver were on their way to class and that they drive this route daily. He acknowledged that the radio was on and that they had been talking just as the crash occurred. He said that the roadway was clear of traffic and they both saw V1 but V1 didn't have a turn signal on and quickly made a left turn and struck the front left of V2. He also stated that there was nothing that they could do and driver didn't have a chance to apply the brakes. V2 driver sustained a number of injuries including cuts to the inside of her mouth and an injured right knee. It was later learned that V2 driver and V2 occupant would require physical therapy three and four times per week for over a two-month period.