This crash occurred on a weekday afternoon on the left roadside of 2-lane, undivided, rural roadway. The east/west roadway consists of lane in each direction with a posted speed limit of 72kmph (45 mph), however there was an advisory sign of 56kmph (35 mph) at the location of this crash due to the presence of a curve. The bituminous roadway curved to the right (as one traveled eastbound) and featured 3% positive grade. Traffic flow was normal however the roads were wet from a steady rain that was falling at the time of the crash.
V1, a 1990 Ford Bronco, was eastbound on the roadway negotiating the curve and approaching a bridge. As V1 drove over a bridge the driver lost control. V1 began rotating counterclockwise and departed the left side (north) of the roadway where it struck a utility pole with its right side. V1 came to final against the utility pole at the point of impact. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1.
V1 was driven by a 16-year-old female that was headed to work this afternoon when she was involved in this crash. She stated she was running behind schedule today because she had to stop at her friend's house to get her wallet. She said she called her work in advance and told them that she would be late for her shift and claimed that she was not in a hurry. As she was driving east on this two-lane road with a curve to the right, she drove over a wet bridge and lost control of her vehicle. As she was hydroplaning, she could not gain control and departed the left side of the road where she struck a utility pole with the right side of her truck. Police on scene estimated her pre-impact speed to be 97kmph (60 mph). She was not seriously injured but she was transported to a local hospital where she was treated for a concussion and a small cut to her right hand.
This driver is familiar with the roadway and said she underestimated the wet road and wet bridge. She has a Graduated License Level 2 driving restriction, which limits the number passengers she is allowed to have in her vehicle and confines her driving from 7 am to 10 pm.