This two-vehicle crash took place in a very large, heavily traveled intersection where a north/southbound roadway intersected with another heavily traveled, five-lane east/westbound roadway. The north/south roadway consisted of four sets of three or more travel lanes each. These travel lanes were divided by curbed grassy medians. The west side of the intersecting east/west roadway had five travel lanes as vehicles approached the intersection from the west, with lane number three, being a designated left turn lane. The east side of the east/west roadway had six lanes in total. There were two lanes for westbound travel, two lanes for eastbound travel, and a designated left turn lane and a designated right turn lane which makes four lanes heading east. This bituminous roadway was straight and level and free from many obvious defects. Many traffic control devices including standard traffic lights, as well as overhead traffic lights controlled the movement through the intersection. There was a considerable amount of congestion at the time of the crash.
V1, a 1997 Dodge Stratus four door, was traveling east in lane three, a left turn lane, and entered the very large intersection with the intention of making a left turn into the northbound travel lanes. V2, a 1995 Toyota Avalon four door, was traveling west in lane four, and entered the intersection from the opposite side of V1 intending to make a left turn into the southbound travel lanes. V1 was driving straight and had not started its turn yet. V1's front contacted V2's front right corner. Upon researcher's arrival V1 was sitting in the intersection and V2 had already been towed from its final rest to a nearby parking lot. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the Dodge Stratus, was driven by a 25-year old female and was transported to the hospital. Attempts to contact V1 driver were unsuccessful and it was concluded that V1 driver did not want to participate in this driver's survey. The father of V1 driver advised that his daughter had explained to him that an unknown vehicle had entered her travel lane causing her to turn her wheel to the left, where V1 struck V2. Officially, according to the police who spoke directly with V1 driver, V1 made an unknown decision error and made no mention of having been cut off by an unknown vehicle. Additionally, the official records made no mention of V1 having been cut off, or of V1 having tried to avoid another vehicle. It was learned that V1 driver was very familiar with V1 and this intersection, and that V1 driver had been driving for at least eight years.
V2, the 1995 Toyota Avalon, was driven by a 38-year old male who was operating V2 without a valid driver's license. V2 driver could not be reached for a driver's survey and it was later learned that V2 driver had planned to return to his home country on the weekend following the crash. V2 driver did have a license to operate a motor vehicle in his home country so it was known that V2 driver had some driving experience, though it was unknown if he was familiar with this roadway or just how much driving experience V2 driver had had.