This crash occurred in the intersection of two six-lane divided, bituminous roadways. Both roads are straight and level with no roadway defects. The intersection is controlled by traffic signals with pedestrian crossings. Both roads have a speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Oldsmobile 98 was westbound in the second lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 Ford Escort was eastbound in the fourth lane. V2 turned left at the intersection and the front of V1 impacted the right of V2. Both vehicles came to rest in the traffic way. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a thirty-five year old female was heading to the hospital to pick up her husband. This driver had been driving for about forty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver indicated that she was thinking about her husband who had been in the hospital for about two weeks. This driver saw V2 and assumed that V2 would yield the right of way. This driver is taking Protonix and Tylenol as medications. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over road on a monthly basis.
The driver of V2, a seventy-nine year old female was driving to the doctor's office from home at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about eleven minutes at the time of the crash. This driver is Bi-Polar and is taking Levoxyl, Lexapro, Mobic and vitamins. The passenger stated that she did not believe that this driver should be driving at all due to her health. Due to the health of this driver and the medications taken, fatigue is considered a factor for this driver. During the interview, this driver reacted very slowly to the questions and in her movements around the crash scene. The passenger indicated that V2, did stop momentarily before turning left at the intersection. This driver drives this vehicle daily and this was her first time on this road.