This two-vehicle rear-end type crash occurred during morning daylight hours on an uphill, straight, dry, bituminous, physically divided seven-lane interstate. Westbound traffic consists of three through lanes and one exit/entrance lane. Eastbound traffic consists of three through lanes. The speed limit on the interstate is 105 kph (65 mph) and there were no adverse weather conditions at the time of the crash. The crash occurred on a weekday in the mid-morning hours.
Vehicle one, a 1986 Chevrolet El Camino, an auto based pick up, was traveling westbound in lane three. Vehicle two, a Chevrolet Silverado, a large pick up truck, was traveling westbound in lane one, the exit/entrance lane. Vehicle one was changing lanes from lane three to lane two and from lane two to one, when the driver locked up the brakes in order not to impact vehicle two who was slowing down to merge left. The front of vehicle one struck the rear of vehicle two. Vehicle one came to rest at impact on its wheels facing east on lane one. After the impact, vehicle two was pushed forward slightly and came to rest on its wheels facing east in lane one. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1 and 97 kmph for V2.
Vehicle one, the Chevrolet El Camino, was not equipped with airbags. The driver was wearing his lap and shoulder belt and was transported to a trauma center was minor injuries. The vehicle was towed from the scene due to moderate frontal damage. Vehicle two, the Chevrolet Silverado, was equipped with the driver and right frontal airbag, which did not deploy. The driver was wearing his lap and shoulder belt and was not injured. The vehicle was driven from the scene due to light back damage.
Vehicle one was driven by a forty-five year old male who knew he had to exit the interstate at this exit because the overhead sign stated the exit was ahead. He was changing lanes to accomplish this and did not realize it was a left merge lane from the previous entrance ramp, although he has driven this roadway several times that month. He had slept his usual eight hours the night before and felt rested. He has been off work for a month because he had injured his back and was on his way from home to the rehabilitation center for a nine o'clock appointment. He said he left his house around 0830 to give himself enough time to make the appointment. He advised he was traveling under the speed limit of 105 kph (65 mph) and felt very comfortable with his vehicle.
A retired, sixty-seven year old male, who had one occupant in the right front seat, drove vehicle two. He drives this roadway weekly and left home at 0845 hours and was driving to a friend's house. He feels very comfortable with the vehicle, and was not in a hurry. He had slept his usual eight hours the night before and felt rested. He advised he was traveling 16 to 24 kph (10 to 15 mph) when the crash occurred, due to trying to merge left from the entrance ramp lane. He stated he saw vehicle one coming into his lane and started to accelerate to avoid the collision.