This two-vehicle rear-end crash occurred on a 7-lane asphalt roadway with a two-way center left-turn lane and right-turn only lanes for both directions of travel. The westbound roadway is straight and downhill. There are several business driveways on both sides of the roadway. The area is generally congested and was extra-congested with lunchtime traffic at the time of the crash. There was no adverse weather or road conditions present. The speed limit is 72 kmph (45 mph).
Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Dodge Neon 4-door sedan with one occupant, was westbound in lane three when it steered into the center left-turn lane with it's left-turn signal on and stopped in the center lane. The driver intended to turn left into a business driveway when oncoming traffic cleared. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Ford F-250 pickup with an empty flatbed trailer in tow and one occupant, was also westbound in the lane three. V2 was following a non-contact oil tanker truck that was behind V1. The non-contact truck slowed suddenly and the driver of V2 steered to the left into the center median lane to avoid contact. When V2 entered the median lane, the front right corner of V2 struck the back left corner of V1. V1 came to rest facing east in the median lane. V2 came to a controlled stop and the driver drove the vehicle to an adjacent parking lot. V1 was towed from the scene and the driver was transported to a local trauma center. V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1 and 0 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1 was a 19 year-old male who does not possess a valid driver's license. He drives the route weekly and has driven the vehicle 2-5 times in the last 3 months. He was stopped in the median lane for 1-2 seconds before being struck by V2. He saw V2 approaching thru the rear view mirror and noted the driver of V2 was talking on a cell phone. All his family members were sick so he was taking V1 to a repair shop to get a new tire.
The driver of V2, a 41-year-old male, stated that his trailer brakes were not working properly and he felt he could not stop in time to avoid contacting the oil truck, so he steered left into the center turn lane just after V1 entered the same lane. The driver of V1 noted that the driver of V2 was talking on a cell phone at the time of the crash.