A two-vehicle mid-day intersection type collision occurred at the intersection of an urban arterial road and a side street. The arterial road has four lanes of travel in two directions, is paved with bituminous asphalt, is undivided and is level in the immediate area of the intersection. The side street is unmarked and intended for two-way traffic. At the intersection, the side street ramps up at an +11% grade to meet the arterial from the south and ramps down at -15% away from the arterial to the north. The speed limit is 48 kmph (30 mph) for the arterial road and 40 kmph (25 mph) for the side street. At the time of the crash the sky was cloudy and the road was dry. Stop signs control traffic on the side street.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1986 Ford F350 flatbed truck with only a driver, was stopped at the intersection to head south across the arterial. The vehicle was equipped with a manual transmission and a diesel engine. Vehicle two (V2), a 1991 Mercedes-Benz 190E sedan with a driver and three passengers, was headed east in lane two. V1 entered the intersection slowly, and when V1 reached the eastbound lanes the front of V2 struck the right rear wheel of V1. V1 spun clockwise approximately 45 degrees, and the load of tree clippings shifted over the left side of the bed and onto the road. V2 was towed due to disabling damage, and all occupants of V2 were transported to the hospital for injuries. V1 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 was a 55-year-old male who reported no injuries from the crash. He was aware of V2 prior to crossing the intersection and proceeded across. He stated that he was unable to cross the intersection fast enough once he realized that V2 was likely to crash into V1.
The driver of V2 was a 25-year old female who was transported to the hospital for injuries. She refused to be interviewed for this study, citing legal concerns. According to the police report, a witness to the rear of V2 saw the truck passing over the intersection, and only saw V2 brake just before the collision. This indicates that V2 did not see V1 until the crash was imminent, and therefore was either distracted before the crash or failed to recognize that a collision was impending.