A three-vehicle crash occurred at a four-way, traffic-signal-controlled intersection. The north-south roadway consists of two through lanes and a left turn lane in each direction. The divided roadway is straight and slightly uphill for north and southbound traffic entering into the intersection; it has a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). The east-west roadway consists of a right-turn-only lane, a through lane, and a left-turn-only lane in each direction. It is straight and level, with a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with late afternoon rush hour traffic congestion.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Buick LeSabre with only the driver present, was southbound in lane three, the left-hand turn lane, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Chevrolet Lumina with only the driver present, was northbound in lane two approaching the intersection. V1 had a yellow light and proceeded with the left turn. The driver of V1 attempted to accelerate after she realized the impact was imminent. The driver of V2 applied the brakes, but the front of V2 impacted the right side of V1. After impact both vehicles rotated clockwise together and the left side of V1 struck the front of Vehicle three (V3), which was stopped facing west in lane three waiting for the signal to turn green. V3 was a 2001 Chevrolet S-10 pickup truck with a camper shell attached. All three vehicles came to rest on the northeast side of the intersection; V1 was facing southwest and V2 was facing northeast. V3 was in its original lane, facing west. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage; V3 was not towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a twenty-two-year-old female, was driving home from school while listening to the radio; she is a full-time student. She was well-rested, drives this route every day, and is very comfortable with her vehicle. She has asthma, which is treated with Advair and Albuterol, and idiopathic anaphylaxis (an allergic reaction condition), for which she carries an Epi-pen (syringe) with Epinphrine medication as treatment.
The driver of V2, a seventy-eight-year-old female, was driving home from the store. She is retired and was well rested because she had a 1-hour nap before she went to the store. She drives this route a couple of times a week and is very familiar with her vehicle. She takes Metoprolol and Aldactone for a heart condition per her medical report, although she stated she didn't have any pre-existing health concerns.
The driver of V3, a thirty-year-old-male, was driving from his home to get some supplies for his upcoming hunting trip. He was well rested and drives this route daily. He reported being in good health and is very familiar with his vehicle.