This crash occurred in the middle of the afternoon on a hot clear day with no adverse weather conditions present. The roadway was a level, concrete, dry and 5 lane divided. The roadway was controlled by traffic signals with pedestrian crossing. The speed limit for this roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph); both vehicles were in lane 1. Vehicle 2 was traveling west and slowed to turn right at the intersection. Vehicle 1 was traveling behind vehicle 2, and struck vehicle 2 in the rear, pushing vehicle 2 northeast and around the corner.
Vehicle one (V1) was a light gray/silver 2000 Mitsubishi Montero utility vehicle driven by a restrained 43 year-old female who was taking coumadin, a diuretic, potassium chloride, lexapro and cortef. At the time of the crash the driver was on her way to work at a care center. The driver had 10 hours of rest the night before the crash and had worked 12-hour shifts the last 7 days prior to the crash. The driver of vehicle 1 had left home for work at 1430 and had to be at work by 1445. The driver had to drive 8 kilometers (5 miles) to work. The driver had just traveled 1.6 kilometers (1 mile). The driver was not hurrying, but she was going to be late to work. Vehicle 1 was traveling west in the right lane going about 56-72 kmph (35-45 mph). As vehicle 1 approached the intersection the driver of V1 failed to notice Vehicle two (V2) in front of her, with his brake lights on and right turn signal activated. V1 front struck the rear of V2. V1 stopped in the same lane with no apparent tire braking marks on the street. V1 was towed, and the driver was transported to the hospital with minor injuries. No airbags deployed in V1. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2 was a light tan 2002 Buick Lesabre sedan driven by a restrained 71 year-old male who was taking coumadin, vitamins, potassium chloride, diuretics, cozaar, humulin 70/30 amonopa, and aspirin. The driver of V2 was heading to a garage to return his vehicle for replacement of a missing part. The driver had gotten 9 hours of sleep the night before the crash, and was fully rested. The driver was traveling west in the right lane. At the time of the crash, the driver had slowed down and was just starting to turn right when he was struck in the rear. V2 was pushed to the right and around the corner to end up facing northeast on the northeast corner. V2 driver complained of pain, but was not transported. V2 was driven from the scene. No airbags deployed in V2.