This two-vehicle crash occurred just after noon on a weekend in the middle of a four-way rural intersection. The intersection consisted of two, two-lane, undivided roadways controlled by stop signs in the east/west direction. Both roadways were bituminous, dry, and straight with the east/west roadway being level, and a slight downhill grade in the north/south direction. The posted speed limit for both roadways was 64 kmph (40mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Chevrolet Venture with one occupant, was stopped facing westbound at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a Ford F-150 pick-up with three occupants, was northbound approaching the intersection where it intended to go straight. As V1 entered the intersection, the front of V2 contacted the left side of V1. The impact caused V1 to roll right two quarter turns before coming to final rest on its roof facing west, partially off of the southbound roadway. V2 rotated slightly counter-clockwise before coming to final rest in the middle of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a 47 year-old male, did not suffer any injuries as a result of the crash. He stated that he had come to a complete stop at the intersection and that before he proceeded he looked both ways but did not see any other vehicles coming due to a visual obstruction (a house located on the corner). The driver did not perform any avoidance actions.
The driver of V2, a 47 year-old male, did not suffer any injuries as a result of the crash, however the passenger in the left rear seat suffered non-incapacitating injuries and was transported for treatment. After numerous attempts to contact the driver an interview could not be obtained. The physical evidence present at the scene; indicated that the driver of V2 locked-up his brakes in an attempt to avoid the impact with V1.