This is a two-vehicle crash that occurred at a four-way intersection. There is one southbound and one northbound lane that are separated by a continuous two-way left turn lane. The cross street has one westbound and one eastbound lane that is controlled by posted stop signs at the northeast and southwest corners of the intersection. The stop signs were visible at the time of the crash. The speed limit on the north/south roadway is posted 56 kmph (35 mph). The speed limit on the east/west roadway is posted 40 kmph (25 mph). The roadways are straight, level and constructed of bituminous asphalt. It was a late evening crash. The roadway was dark with no lighting and the sky was clear.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Ford 4-door Focus with two occupants, was traveling eastbound approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 Chevrolet Suburban with four occupants, was traveling southbound in the lane one approaching the intersection. V1 rolled through the stop sign and traveled into the intersection where the front of V2 struck the left side of V1. The impact caused V1 to rotate counterclockwise in the intersection where it came to rest near the south side of the intersection facing in a northwesterly direction. V2 continued through the intersection and came to rest in the lane one facing south about 28 meters (92 feet) south of the intersection. The right front passenger in V2, a 17 year-old female in V1, was transported from the scene for minor injuries. V2 was towed due to damage. The passengers in V1 reported no injuries. V1 was removed form the scene by the driver; the vehicle was disabled but the driver resided 1 block from the crash site. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.
A 19-year old female, who reported no injuries, drove V1. The driver said that she was traveling eastbound on her way to a friend's house. She said that she thought that she stopped at the stop sign. She said that a friend that was traveling directly behind her just before the crash said that she rolled through the stop sign. She also said that she did not see V2 approaching the intersection. . The driver is familiar with the vehicle and travels the route daily.
A 40-year old male, who reported no injuries, drove V2. He said that he was traveling southbound at about 56 kmph (35 mph) approaching the intersection. He said that he saw V1 approaching the intersection traveling eastbound. V1 failed to stop for the stop sign according to this driver. He said that there were two other cars behind V1 when it ran the stop sign. The driver applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid the crash but was unsuccessful. He is familiar with the vehicle and drives the route daily.