This three car crash occurred in the third northbound lane of a six lane undivided roadway. There were three northbound and three southbound lanes. This was a straight, uphill, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). It was late in the morning on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was congested due to construction in the lst northbound lane and the corresponding intersection.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Chevrolet Suburban four door with only the driver present, was traveling northbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Toyota Camry four door with only the driver present, was stopped in lane three heading northbound. Vehicle three (V3), a 2004 Honda Accord four door with only the driver present, was also stopped in lane three heading northbound in front of V2. V3 was stopped in traffic due to the construction that was going on to her right. V2 had stopped also due to V3. V1 was traveling northbound in lane three when it contacted the back of V2 with its front end. This in turn caused V2 to contact the back of V3 with its front end. V1's front end came to rest against the back end of V2. Both V1 and V2 came to rest on all four tires facing north. V3's final rest is unknown. This is due to V3 leaving the scene before the police and researcher arrived. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a forty-three year old female, stated that she had come from dropping her daughter off at horse camp and was on her way to her son's summer camp. She stated that she was following with the speed of traffic when vehicle two stopped. She stated she tried to put on her brakes but it was too late. She stated she was traveling approximately 56 kmph (35 mph) before she put on her brakes and then impacted V2. This driver stated that as she was driving she was watching the red vehicle (V3) and when she looked back, V2 had stopped. The driver of V1 also stated she got eight hours of sleep the night before and does not work. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.
The driver of V2, a twenty-one year old female, stated that she was coming from home and was on her way to work. She stated that she had stopped because V3 stopped and when she looked back in her rearview mirror she saw V1 hit her vehicle. The driver of V2 stated she got nine hours of sleep the night before and usually works eleven hours a day. This vehicle had one tire with a low tread depth. This driver indicated that in general she is uncomfortable with driving. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.
The driver of V3, a forty-six year old female stated she was coming from home and was on her way to the super market. She stated she stopped for the construction and then after the lady in V2 stopped behind her, V2 was hit, which pushed V2 into her vehicle. She stated she got nine hours of sleep the night before and works approximately four hours a day. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.