This three-vehicle crash occurred during daylight hours in a T-intersection. The southbound lanes of a six-lane, median-divided roadway curve left and are uphill. The speed limit on this roadway is 80 kmph (50 mph). The intersecting roadway on the west side is straight and level with two lanes and is controlled by a stop sign. The speed limit on this roadway is 40 kmph (25mph). The roads were dry and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one, a 1994 Cadillac Fleetwood, was stopped eastbound at the stop sign, intending to turn left and travel north. Vehicle two, a 2000 Ford F250 pickup, was southbound in lane three and vehicle three, a 1997 Mitsubishi Eclipse was southbound in lane three behind vehicle two. Vehicle one entered the intersection, turning left. The driver of vehicle two applied his brakes, skidding longitudinally, but the front of vehicle two struck the left side of vehicle one. Vehicle one rotated counterclockwise, traveled southward and the right side was struck by the left side of vehicle three. Vehicle one came to final rest facing southwest in southbound lane three. Vehicle two came to final rest partially in the median and the southbound lanes facing northeast. Vehicle three came to final rest in lane three of the southbound lanes facing south. Vehicles one and two were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.
The driver of vehicle one, a seventy-two-year-old female, was driving from her home to a beauty salon. She stated that she was well rested and is familiar with the route as well as her vehicle. She stated that she stopped at the stop sign, looked left and thought she could cross the southbound lanes before vehicle two came through. She looked to the right to check for traffic in the northbound lanes (her intended path) and proceeded. She has a number of chronic illnesses for which she takes medications, including Dyazide, Atenolol, Zyrtec, Paxil and Mirapex. The possible side effects of these medications are sleepiness, confusion, lightheadedness and dizziness.
The driver of vehicle two, a forty-five-year-old male, was traveling from his shop to a job site with a male passenger. He is very comfortable driving his vehicle, including the cargo, which consists of large toolboxes and tools in the bed of his pickup. He was well rested and drives on this roadway several times each week. He stated that he saw vehicle one drive out in front of him, but was unable to stop in time. . Although the driver claimed he was traveling under the speed limit of 50 mph (80 kmph), analysis of the skids marks indicates the vehicle was traveling at a speed of 60-65 mph (97-105 kmph) prior to brake application. Vehicle speed was a contributing factor.
The driver of vehicle three, a nineteen-year-old female, was traveling from her home to school. She was well rested and familiar with both her vehicle and her route. She also applied the brakes, steered to the right and was slowing down when vehicle one rotated and traveled into her path.