This crash occurred on a two lane undivided roadway with a curve to the left and a super-elevation of 4.4%. The posted speed limit is 72KMPH (45MPH) with a suggested speed limit for the curve of 48KMPH (30MPH) posted one tenth of a mile before the crash site
The roadway was dry with patches of water due to an earlier rain. The weather was cloudy. This crash occurred on a weekday afternoon. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
Vehicle #1, a 1996 Dodge Intrepid, was traveling south, negotiating the curve, when it came upon a pick-up truck stopped in the lane. The truck was waiting for passing traffic before making a left turn into its driveway. The truck had its left turn signal on according to a witness. Vehicle #1, unable to stop, went over the left lane double yellow line around the left side of the truck and impacted with two guardrail posts, overcorrected spinning clockwise180 degrees back across the roadway and coming to final rest off the southbound lane, facing a northerly direction with its front right in a ditch impacting with the embankment. Damage to the vehicle was caused by both posts and the embankment. The vehicle was towed due to damage
Vehicle #1, a Dodge Intrepid, was driven by a 37 year old belted female who was transported to an area hospital with minor injuries. The son of the driver arrived on the scene and stated the driver had been talking with him on a cell phone. She was on her way to pick him up from his grandparents house. He said the rear of his mothers vehicle had been melted in a house fire several days prior to this crash. He was surprised his mother has 'gotten this far', meaning she arrived at this point much faster than he expected. He also said his mother would normally be taking anti-depressant medication (unknown type) but the medication had burned in the fire and he was unsure if she had been able to get more. The son further stated this was the third crash his mother had been involved with in less than one year with this vehicle and that his mother usually drove a little too fast.
The Police did not consider alcohol or illegal drugs to be a factor in this crash and ordered not tests for this driver.