The crash occurred just after noon on a weekday in the middle of a T intersection between two secondary arterial roads. The intersection consisted of an east/west roadway intersected by a north/south roadway. Both roads were straight and level in the area of the crash. The north/south roadway had a speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph) and had a stop sign as traffic control for the southbound traffic terminating into the east/west roadway. The east/west roadway had a speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph) with no traffic controls. Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight, cloudy and dry.
V1, a 1991 Dodge Ram pickup truck with one occupant, was stopped facing south at the intersection preparing to make a left turn. V2, a 2000 Ford Windstar minivan with four occupants, was westbound on the east/west arterial approaching the intersection. V1 attempted its turn into the eastbound lane when it was struck on the left side by the front of V2. V1 then rotated counter-clockwise and the right side (at its back) impacted an embankment that bordered the south edge of the east/west roadway. V1 came to rest facing northeast in the eastbound lane. V2 had begun to swerve to its right just before impact (avoidance maneuver) and after impact traveled to the northwest corner of the intersection coming to rest there with the front partially off the road. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a 17-year-old male, was not restrained at the time of the crash. He was listed as having sustained minor injuries (his head had a minor laceration) but refused medical treatment or transport. He was on his way home from school early having just received news before his crash that his younger sister had just been hit by a car. He also complained to the researcher that his vehicle had been experiencing some transmission trouble.
The driver of V2, a 33-year-old belted female, and her three occupants were uninjured in the crash. She had just left a church meeting and was on her way shopping at the time of the crash.