A two vehicle daytime collision occurred shortly after noon on a Wednesday. The collision occurred at a four-leg intersection comprised by a north/south roadway and an east/west roadway. The north/south roadway is undivided, dry, level, and asphalt. The north leg of the north/south roadway consists of seven lanes. The south leg of the north/south roadway consists of eight lanes. The east/west roadway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of five lanes. Both roadways are designated 56 kmph (35 mph) zones. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light signal that was working properly at the time of the collision. The tri-light signals phase from solid yellow to solid red in approximately 5 seconds.
Vehicle one (V1) is a 1994 Ford Thunderbird, two-door coupe, traveling southbound in the number three lane. Vehicle two (V2) is a 2001 Buick Century, four-door sedan, traveling southbound in the number three lane. As both vehicles crossed through the intersection, traffic on the south leg of the intersection came to a stop. V2 came to a complete stop as a result of the traffic. The front plane of V1 then contacted the rear plane of V2. Both vehicles came to rest facing southbound in the number three lane. The researcher observed V1 being towed from its final rest due to moderate damage; however, the investigating officer listed V1 as not towed due to moderate damage. V2 received minor damage and was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 is a 42-year-old female traveling with a 62-year-old female and a 67-year-old male. The driver was talking to her passengers about the restaurant to which they were traveling. The driver had back surgery 12-years ago for dislocated discs. She is legally disabled as a result of her back problem and her vehicle has a handicap placard. She does not take medications for her condition. Her condition does not effect her driving, only her walking. The driver stated that she drove through the intersection in the number two lane on a solid green light. The driver of V2 then suddenly came to a stop. She believed V2 would continue traveling forward. The driver braked without lockup. During the vehicle inspection all four tires were found to be underinflated by 6-8 Psi (41-55 kPa), and the side walls all showed signs of cracking. The underinflated tires would increase the stopping distance for braking.
The driver of V2 is a 64-year-old female traveling to an errand. The driver was wearing non-prescription sunglasses. She has difficulty hearing some sounds in both ears and typically wears a hearing aid, but was not wearing it at the time of the crash. She stated that traffic ahead of her stopped once she passed through the intersection. The traffic stopped because of a vehicle making a left turn unto a side street. The driver stated she was stopped for approximately one to two seconds prior to being struck.