This three-vehicle crash occurred on a straight, level, undivided roadway, approaching a traffic signal-controlled intersection. The eastbound lanes consist of two through lanes and a left turn lane. The speed limit on this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours and it was raining.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Kia Rio, was eastbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Chrysler Town and Country, was stopped eastbound in lane two in front of V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 1982 Chevrolet Citation, was stopped eastbound in lane two in front of V2. The front of V1 struck the back of V2. V2 moved forward and the front struck the back of V3. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a fifty-five-year-old female, was traveling from her insurance company office to her home. She was well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels on this roadway weekly. This driver has hypertension, manic-depression and restless leg syndrome. She takes several medications daily for these conditions - Lithium, Cymbalta, Toprol, Mirapex, Hydrochlorothiazide, Naproxen, Nexium, Clonazepam and Cyclobenzaprine. This driver stated that the medications she takes make her "mind wander off." She also stated that she was thinking about personal and family problems prior to the crash. She further stated that she was looking at a vacant lot on the right side of the roadway and when she looked back at the roadway, V2 and V3 had stopped and although she applied the brakes, she was too late to avoid a collision.
The driver of V2, a fifty-two-year-old female, was traveling from her home to a store. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily.
The driver of V3, a twenty-four-year-old female, had just picked up her five-year-old son from daycare and they were on their way home. She was well rested, healthy and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. This driver travels this route daily.