This two-vehicle crash occurred in the late evening of a weekend in the middle of a dark, unlit, four-way intersection. The main roadway ran east/west with two lanes in each direction and divided by a raised grass median. The main roadway was intersected from the south by a two-way, two-lane, undivided roadway and from the north by a two-way, two-lane divided roadway. The roadways were bituminous, dry, and straight. The main roadway was level and straight. The main roadway was level with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The roadway to the south of the intersection featured a 13% uphill slope as it approached the intersection with speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.
V1, a 1999 Honda Accord four-door with two occupants was eastbound in lane one approaching the intersection. V2, a 1992 Toyota Camry four-door with one occupant was northbound in lane one. It is unknown if V2 stopped at the stop sign, but it entered the intersection and appeared to be making a right turn onto the eastbound lanes of the main roadway directly into the path of V1. V1's front end struck the left front of V2 causing it to rotate clock-wise. V2 came to rest facing northeast about 6m (20 ft.) from the point of impact. V1 continued traveling eastward out of control crossing over into the westbound lanes before coming to final rest facing east about 70m (230 ft.) from the point of impact with its front end on the grass median. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a 27-year old male, suffered non-incapacitating injuries and was transported to a hospital. His 15-year old passenger seated in the right front seat was also transported with minor injuries. The driver refused to participate in this study after numerous attempts for an interview were made.
The driver of V2, a 22-year old male, suffered minor injuries and was transported to a hospital for treatment. The researcher was unable to locate the driver because he gave a false phone number and two false addresses. The driver was found to have BAC of .28 based on tests conducted at the hospital (according to medical records).