The crash occurred in the intersection of a north/south roadway and an east/west roadway. The north/south roadway had two lanes in each direction and is divided by a center median. The east/west roadway had three travel lanes, and is divided by a center median with a positive barrier. At the Northwest corner of the intersection, there is a one-way, one lane entrance ramp. The roadways were straight and level, and it was daylight and cloudy with no adverse conditions. The posted speed limit was 48kmph (30mph) and it was on a weekday afternoon with normal traffic conditions.
V1, a 2002 BMW M Coupe two door with one occupant was traveling westbound in lane one. V2, a 2000 Ford Expedition four-door with two occupants was traveling northbound in lane two. V3 was a 2002 Ford Explorer four-door with one occupant was traveling southbound and stopped for the traffic control device in lane three. The front of V2 impacted the left side of V1. V2 continued and crossed the center median into the southbound lanes, and the front of V2 impacted the front of V3. Then V2 continued up the entrance ramp and came to a final rest after contacting a guardrail. V1 came to a final rest on the left lane of the northbound roadway. V3 came to a final rest approximately a meter north of its point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the BMW M Coupe was driven by a 37 year-old male who did not sustain any injuries. He stated to the Police that he was attempting to enter the entrance ramp of the highway when he was impacted in the left side by the front of V2, who disregarded the traffic control signal. The BMW was towed due to damage.
V2, the Ford Expedition was driven by a 67 year-old male who did not sustain any injuries. The passenger, a 55 year-old female also did not sustain any injuries. The driver advised that he and his wife were coming from the hospital and heading home. He was traveling approximately 40kmph (25 mph) before the intersection when he was sideswiped by a small vehicle on the right side, which caused him to loose control and go through the intersection. After impact with V1, the driver stated that his accelerator pedal became stuck and then he went over the center divider and contacted the front of V3, and then up the entrance ramp and impacted the guardrail. The Ford was towed due to damage.
V3, the Ford Explorer was driven by a 29 year-old male who did not sustain any injuries. He was traveling southbound in the left lane and stopped for the Traffic control device when he was impacted by V2. The Ford was towed due to damage.