This two-vehicle crash occurred just north of an intersection on an undivided six-lane north/southbound street with a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). On the south side of the intersection, there were five lanes of travel: three northbound lanes and two southbound lanes. There was a dedicated parking lane to the right of lane one on the south side of the intersection, which ended at the intersection. On the north side of the intersection, there were six lanes of travel, three in each direction. On the north side of the intersection, there were no dedicated parking lanes. The roadway was straight, its vertical profile was level, and the bituminous surface was dry and free from any noticeable defects.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Ford E350 utility box truck, was traveling northbound in the first lane of travel. Also traveling northbound and behind V1 was Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Chevrolet Geo Prism. As both vehicles were passing through the intersection, V2 changed lanes into the new rightmost travel lane. After V1 and V2 cleared the intersection, V1 attempted to change lanes into lane one, striking V2 and forcing V2 partially off the roadway to the right. V2 was disabled and sitting partially off of the roadway and partially on the east sidewalk. V1 pulled just ahead of V2's final rest and parked in lane one, a travel lane. There were two witnesses to the crash. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
V1 was driven by a 42-year-old male who had one occupant with him, a co-worker and friend. During a complete on-scene interview, the driver stated that he had been working on the morning of the crash and that he and his co-worker had just left a local eatery to have lunch. He explained that he pulled out of the parking lot of the restaurant and made a right into lane one heading north, and began to approach the intersection. He stated that he was very familiar with this street and that after he passed through the intersection he was going to make his way into the new rightmost travel lane because he intended to make a right at the end of the next block. He stated that after he passed through the intersection he applied his right turn signal and checked his right side-view mirrors. Driver of V1 stated that he checked his side-view mirrors twice, saw that he was clear and made his lane change to the right. At this point the right side of V1 struck the left side of V2 and forced it partially onto the right curb. Driver acknowledged that he was very full from lunch and had been talking to his passenger about the move to a new home that he and his family were about to begin. He stated that he and his family were excited about moving to a new home but also acknowledged that it was somewhat stressful.
V2 was driven by a 56-year-old female and was carrying one adult passenger. Upon researcher arrival, V2's driver and occupant had already been transported to an emergency room due to injuries of unknown severity. The attorney for this driver did phone the researcher and he stated that the driver of V1 had "admitted fault" and that V1 driver had acknowledged that he had failed to use his turn signal and that he had failed to look in his side-view mirror as he had reported on the day of the crash. V2's attorney said that he would give his client the "okay" to participate in this survey. Many efforts were made to contact the driver, and after phone messages were not returned it was concluded that V2 driver did not want to participate in this survey even though she had her attorney's approval.
Witness #1 had just walked out of his store and was looking across the street to the east. He reported that the "white box truck" was blocking his view of V2 because he didn't even know that there was another vehicle present next to V1. As he was looking, he observed V1 change lanes to the right and he heard V1 striking V2. Witness #1 said that he then saw V2 as V1 pulled past V2 and parked in the right travel lane (lane one) to wait for police arrival.
Witness #2 had just begun walking northbound along the east sidewalk on the block where the crash occurred. She reported that as soon as both vehicles passed her to her left, V1 attempted to change lanes and in doing so struck V2. She also reported that there was nothing that V2 could have done to avoid being struck by V1.