This three-vehicle crash occurred on a dry, divided, straight, level concrete roadway. The southbound lanes consist of four travel lanes with narrow shoulders and Jersey barriers on both sides. This roadway is access-controlled and the area outside the right barrier is under construction. The speed limit for this roadway is 97 kmph (60 mph). This crash occurred during the morning rush hour with no adverse atmospheric conditions
Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Chevrolet Trailblazer, was southbound in lane two. V2, a 1993 Honda Accord, and V3, a 1999 Pontiac Grand Prix, were southbound in lane one and stopped due to traffic conditions. V1 moved into lane one and the front struck the back of V2. V2 moved to the left and came to rest in lane three. V1 continued southbound and the front struck the back of V3. V1 and V3 moved forward and came to rest in lane one. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a thirty-two-year-old male, was traveling from his home to an appointment with a marriage counselor. He needed to change lanes to the right in anticipation of exiting at the upcoming freeway exit. This driver stated that there was a pickup truck in lane one that appeared to be moving into lane two. As he steered into lane one, the driver of V1 stated that he felt that the pickup truck would crash into his vehicle and accelerated to avoid this collision. He consequently did not notice V2 stopped and did not take any action to avoid the crash with V2. This driver travels this route weekly and is very familiar with his vehicle. He was well rested at the time of the crash and takes oral Prednisone for his mononucleosis. He also indicated that he is under stress at work due to tight deadlines.
The driver of V2, a thirty-year-old male, was traveling with a twenty-seven-year-old male, from his workplace to another site to pick up a vehicle. He was well rested, healthy and was familiar with the road as well as his vehicle.
The driver of V3, a thirty-four-year-old female, was traveling from her home to work. She was well rested, in good health and drives her vehicle on this roadway daily.