This two-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of a four-way "T" intersection, one north/south and one for each east/westbound lanes of travel. The roadways for all directions were asphalt, dry, and level. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph) for all four directions. V1's direction was controlled by a passive stop sign. There were no traffic control devices for V2's direction. The crash occurred during the early evening and the dark roadway was illuminated by overhead streetlights. The roadway was free of any defects and the weather was clear. The traffic flow was normal.
Vehicle one, a 1995 Subaru Legacy, was traveling eastbound on the two-lane east/ west roadway when it contacted, with its front, the right front of vehicle two, a 2002 Large Public Transportation Bus, traveling northbound on a two lane north/ south roadway. Vehicle two was attempting to make a left turn northbound and crossed into the path of V2. Vehicle two was intending to continue traveling southbound prior to being contacted by V1. Vehicle one was severely damage as a result of the impact and was towed, while V2 received only minor damage and was not towed. The impact caused V1 to rotate counter-clockwise where it came to final rest facing northward. V2 only slightly jarred from the impact and found final rest a few feet beyond the impact area. The driver of V1 stated there weren't any view obstructions. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
Vehicle one driver, a 40-year-old female, was aware of the oncoming traffic. She travels on the roadway daily. She was returning home from picking up her daughter and friends from a neighbor's house. She said she'd traveled only three miles before reaching the intersection where the crash occurred. As she approached the corner of the intersection she'd remembers listening to the radio and talking with the children about school matters. She said she stopped at the passive stop sign located at the corner of the intersection before proceeding to turn left. However, as she reached mid point in her turn she contacted V2 traveling straight through the intersecting crossroad. She could not say for sure if she was distracted by the radio or the conversation with her passengers. She must have turned right at the last minute to check for traffic, she said. She received a traffic citation for neglecting to yield before making a left turn. She and two of her four passengers were transported to the hospital with minor injuries.
The driver of V2, a 51-year old male, accompanied by several company supervisors and managers, on scene, refused an interviewed, company policy. However, he did say he had the right away and was traveling within the speed limit and that he was intending to go straight. He was not injured although one of the passengers on the bus was transported to the hospital with unknown injuries.
The 'Critical Pre-Crash Event' coded to V1 is: turning left at the intersection. The 'Critical Reason' for V1 is: Inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see). Associated factors include; conversing with passengers and listening to the radio.
The 'Critical Pre-Crash Event” coded to V2 is: other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path. The 'Critical Reason' was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associated factors for the driver of this vehicle because of the interview refusal.