This crash occurred in the morning of a weekday in the middle of busy “T” intersection. The intersection consisted of a five lane, east/west roadway and a five lane, north/south roadway controlled by properly functioning traffic signals. The bituminous, east/west roadway was straight and level with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The roadway was wet from a rain that was falling and traffic was heavy due to rush hour and restricted in the westbound direction due to a previous crash nearby. The traffic surrounding this intersection is particularly bad because of factory gates in the area and a nearby set of railroad tracks for the factory at the south side of the intersection. This intersection has a history of crashes and long waits because of train crossings and heavy traffic at shift changes.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Dodge Stratus with one occupant was stopped facing west in lane three (a designated left turn lane) preparing to turn left onto the intersecting roadway. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Ford Probe SE with two occupants was westbound in lane two approaching the same intersection where it intended to go straight. As V1 began its left turn maneuver V2 entered the intersection. The front corner of V1 struck the front left corner of V2 in middle of the intersection. Both vehicles came to final rest near the point of impact in the middle of the intersection. Shortly after coming to final rest a fire broke out in the engine compartment of V1 near the power steering unit. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a 50-year-old female, claimed to be in fair health with a history of lung disease for which she currently takes several medications. She suffered minor injuries and was transported for treatment. She was retuning home from taking a friend to the hospital who has a similar condition to hers. She passed a previous crash as she moved into the left turn lane and stopped waiting for traffic to clear. She waited for more than 10 seconds and watched the traffic merge right out of lanes one and two into the south bound lanes. She watched several vehicles clear the intersection and believed it was clear to turn. She began her turn and the next thing she remembers was being hit in the upper body by the airbags. A person came to her door and asked if she was OK at which time she was informed that her vehicle was on fire. This driver stated that when she arrived home from her hospital stay in her mail was a recall from the factory stating that a fire was possible from leaking power steering hoses.
The driver of V2, a 21-year-old male, claimed to be in good health. He suffered minor injuries but refused transport. He stated he and his passenger were on there way home from working a double shift. They were eastbound in lane two approaching the intersection. He stated that as they came to the intersection he noted the vehicle in the left turn lane facing west, but thought it would yield the right of way. As it began to turn he braked hard, but could not avoid the crash.