This crash occurred in the early afternoon of weekday in the middle of a four-way, urban intersection. The intersection consisted of a two-way, five lane, north/south roadway (two lanes in each direction and a designated southbound left turn lane) and a two-way, five lane east/west roadway controlled by a properly functioning traffic signal w/pedestrian cross signals. The bituminous southbound lanes were straight with a pre-crash slope of +3/122. The westbound lanes had a slope of +8/122 and a radius of curve to the left of 281m (super elevation of +1/122). Both roadways featured a posted speed limit of 56kmph (35 mph). Traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.
V1, a 1986 Chevrolet S-10 pick-up, was southbound in lane two approaching the intersection where it intended to go straight. V2, a 1999 Oldsmobile Bravada, was westbound in lane two approaching the same intersection where it also intended to go straight. As V1 approached the intersection the light began to change and the driver tried to make the light by accelerating. The light changed to red and the driver entered the intersection. V1 struck the left side of V2 with its front. The impact caused V2 to rotate clockwise and rollover two quarter turns onto its roof before coming to final rest facing northeast in the left turn lane of the eastbound traffic way. V1 came to final rest in the left turn lane on the west side of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. The driver of V2 was transported to the local trauma unit due to injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1 was driven by a 69-year-old male in good health and on his way to his brother in-law's home after picking up parts to work on his vehicle. He stated the traffic light started to change the vehicle in front of him slowed he then changed lanes and accelerated to try to make the light. He stated he did not note the westbound vehicle until he entered the intersection. He slammed on his brakes but could not avoid V2.
V2 was driven by a 41-year-old female in good health who was on her way home from the store at the time of the crash. She stated that as she approached the intersection she was decelerating because the light was red and the roadway was an up hill slope and had “S” curves to the roadway. She stated as she neared the light it turned green. She stated she looked right then left and preceded. She also stated she did not see the southbound vehicle it must have been beside the vehicle in lane three. She stated after being hit her vehicle rotated clockwise and went into the roll. She stated all she could do is hold on and try to keep herself from going through the open sunroof as the top crushed in on her. She stated that is about all she could remember.
The witness stated that he was traveling south on the roadway in lane two. He states that the traffic light was red and he was stopped back about a vehicle length from the vehicle that was stopped waiting to turn right. He stated that V1 was in his lane but changed lanes to lane one then back to lane two and ran the red light. V1 hit V2 in the back door area causing it to go over onto its roof. He also stated that the light had been red for some time so that another vehicle may have gone through ahead of the V2.