This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-leg intersection. Both roadways are divided by a curbed median. The northbound lanes approaching the intersection are straight, consist of two through lanes and a left turn lane and have a 5% downgrade. The speed limit for this roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph). The westbound lanes approaching the intersection are straight, consist of two through lanes and a left turn lane and have an 8% upgrade. There is a stop sign at the intersection for this roadway. The speed limit for this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Ford Focus, was northbound in lane two, going straight through the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2007 Ford Explorer Sport Trac, was stopped westbound, waiting to turn right (north). A non-contact vehicle was in northbound lane one, turning right (east). The driver of V2 did not notice V1 and proceeded to make a right turn and traveled in to lane two rather than lane one. The driver of V1 noticed V2 entering the roadway and steered left and applied the brakes (with lockup). The front of V1 struck the left side of V2. V1 then moved left and the front left tire/wheel struck the median curb. V1 came to rest on the median facing north. V2 was driven to the east shoulder of the roadway. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a twenty-one-year-old female, was traveling from work to her home. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She drives this route daily. This driver stated that the non-contact vehicle in lane one temporarily blocked her view of V2, but she attempted to avoid V2 when she did see it.
The driver of V2, a twenty-four-year-old female, was traveling from her home to a friend's house. She was healthy, well rested and drives this roadway daily. This was her first time driving this vehicle. This driver stated that "wasn't really paying attention" when she made the turn and inadvertently traveled into lane two.