The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a two-way, ten-lane interstate roadway, which was physically divided by a concrete traffic barrier. There were five southbound lanes, with a posted speed of 105 kmph (65 mph). This was a straight, level, asphalt roadway. Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon with wet roads and rain. Traffic flow was normal.
V1, a 1993 Ford Crown Victoria with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane five (HOV lane). V2, a 1999 Mercury Mystique with one occupant, was traveling ahead of V1 in lane four. V3, a 2006 Chevy Malibu with two occupants, was traveling ahead of V1 in lane five (HOV lane). V1 passed V2 on the left. V3 reduced its speed due to traffic. V1 attempted to make a sudden change into lane four. The driver's vehicle started to fishtail back and forth. The driver of V2 moved into lane three in an attempt to avoid V1. The right side of V1 made contact with the left side of V2. V1 then traveled back across lanes four and five. V1 made contact with the right side of V3. V3 was pushed to the left. The front left corner of V3 made contact with the concrete traffic barrier. Then the left side made contact with the concrete traffic barrier. All three vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.
V1, the Crown Victoria, was driven by a 33-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he was on his way home from work. According to the driver, a vehicle was tailing him, so he sped up. In doing so, the driver was quickly closing the gap between himself and the vehicle to his front. He decided to change lanes, but noticed that the car to his left was also speeding up, essentially closing the gap that was needed for the lane change. The driver, who had committed himself to the lane change, took a cursory glance over his right shoulder in order to check his blind spot. The driver said that as he turned his head forward, he saw brake lights in front of him. He swerved to the right to get into lane four. His vehicle started to fishtail on the wet pavement. His back end slid out to the right. Before he could regain control of his vehicle, he got hit in the left rear quarter panel area, which sent him into a tailspin. The driver indicated that he had no control of his vehicle after that.
V2, the Mercury Mystique, was driven by a 49-year old female, who was not injured. She stated that she was on her way home from work, traveling at about 105 kmph (65 mph). A vehicle came up behind her in the HOV lane. According to the driver, the other vehicle was traveling faster than the rest of the traffic stream, and was making rapid lane changes to pass people. She indicated that there was only about a three car-lengths gap between her and the vehicle to her front. Nevertheless, the driver of V1 came up fast on her left, and attempted to quickly cut in front of her. She noticed the other driver's vehicle start to rock back and forth from side to side. The driver of V2 could not safely apply her brakes, because she had traffic behind her. Instead, she changed one lane to her right. She said that as V1 rotated counterclockwise, he hit her once or twice on her left side. She was able to maintain control of her vehicle and pull over to the right shoulder.
V3, the Chevy Malibu, was driven by a 68-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he and his wife were on their way to the airport to fly back home. He was in the HOV lane, traveling at about 89 kmph (55 mph). All of a sudden, he heard his wife shouting in surprise. The driver was hit on the right side, pushing him off the road to the left, into the concrete traffic barrier.