This one-car crash occurred on the right southbound shoulder of a four lane, straight, level, bituminous roadway that was divided from the north bound traffic by a grass median. There were two through lanes and one on-ramp merge lane. There were no rumble strips on the paved asphalt shoulder of the highway. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 104 kmph (65 mph). It was the middle of the day on a weekday, the road was dry and the sky was clear. The traffic flow was moderate.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Mercedes Benz SL55 AMG two-door with only the driver present was traveling southbound in lane two. The driver fell asleep while driving and departed the roadway to the right. V1 then entered the left side of the on-ramp lane, and then departed the right side of the on-ramp lane. V1 then contacted the end of a metal guardrail with wooden posts with the front of V1. After the impact to the guardrail, the airbags deployed and awakened the driver. V1 continued off the roadway down a steep grassy embankment as the driver proceeded to use the brakes to bring V1 to final rest. V1 came to rest approximately 71-meters (233-feet) from the guardrail impact on all four tires facing southwest. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1.
A 63-year old male who reported no injuries drove V1, the Mercedes. He stated he was on his way back from business in the mountains to the office when he started to get tired and thought about stopping to get some coffee. He said the last thing he knew he was driving along and then suddenly when he awoke the airbags had gone off and he was traveling off the road and down the hill. He stated that he gets about six hours of sleep a night, including last night, and works approximately ten hours a day. This driver also reported that he exercised this morning for about an hour and also takes blood pressure medication once a day. This vehicle is equipped with both driver and passenger airbags, with which only the driver side deployed. The driver was also reported as wearing a lap and shoulder belt. This vehicle was towed due to severe frontal damage.