The crash occurred in the middle of a four-way, traffic light controlled intersection. There were three lanes running west bound separated by a raised curbed median. The north/south roadway there was three lanes running northbound with a raised curbed median separating four lanes running southbound. The roadway was straight and level and the conditions were dry and clear. It was a weekend afternoon and the posted speed was 72 KPH.
Vehicle 1 was a 2000 Cadillac Deville that was driven by a 93-year old woman. She was just leaving a local diner located on the northwest corner of the intersection. She was proceeding to exit the diner when she struck a pedestrian knocking him to the ground causing a right knee injury. After he was struck the driver of V1 then accelerated the gas and proceed to drive across the four lanes of southbound traffic then jumped the middle curbed median and continued across the three lanes of northbound traffic veering off the roadway to make contact with a bus bench located on the northeast side of the intersection. She then continued to make contact with V2, a 2002 GMC Envoy that was stopped in lane three at the red light. After hitting V2 she then continued to make contact with V3, 2005 Lexus that was also stopped in lane two at the red light. V3 due to the impact then gets pushed into V4, a 2002 Lexus who was in lane three also stopped at the red light. The driver of V1 then tried to put the vehicle in reverse and leave the scene but, the driver of V2 opened the door and puts V1 in park and removes the key from the ignition. V1 was towed due to damages and the driver was transported to a local hospital. V2 was not towed and the driver was not injured. V3 was towed due to damages but the driver was not injured. V4 was not towed due to damages and the driver was not injured. The pedestrian was not injured besides a scratched right knee and refused treatment on scene from the EMS. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
V1, the Cadallic was driven by a 93-year-old woman. She seemed very confused during the interview and did not seem mentally stable. She seemed unaware of her actions or any wrong doing and although was interviewed before she was transported she did not make much sense. She claimed that after she hit the pedestrian that she tried to hit the brakes but her vehicle would not stop and just kept going faster as she then lost control and hit the bus bench, V2, V3, and V4. The pedestrian stated that after he was struck his friend chased after V1 but, that is when she accelerated out of the diner parking lot.
V2, the GMC Envoy, was driven by a 45-year-old male who was with his 72-year-old father. He was in lane one stopped at the red light when he stated in the interview that out of the corner of his eye he saw the white Cadillac jumped the middle curbed median and get airborne and then continue off the road and hit the bus bench. He stated that he knew she was coming right at his front end but there was not where for him to go as there were cars to the left and behind him. He also stated that once the driver of V1 came to final rest against V3's right side door she tried to put the car in reverse. At this point the driver of V2 was already out of his vehicle and opened the door of V1 to see a confused elderly woman staring at him blankly. He then proceeds to put the vehicle in park and take her keys away.
V4, was interview too as her Lexus got pushed up onto the curbed median due to the impact from V3. V3 got pushed into V4. She stated in her interview that she heard a loud crash and looked to the right as the Cadillac crashed into V2 and V3. There was no associative factor related to this vehicle. This vehicle was not coded as it was not a part of the first harmful event.