This single vehicle crash occurred during morning daylight hours on a Sunday. The crash location was interchange related and occurred on an exit-ramp with a curve to the right. The exit ramp was a single lane bituminous, one-way ramp with a 12% super elevation and a slight positive grade. The road was dry; it was daylight with a cloudy sky and a light sprinkling of rain at the time of the crash. The speed limit on the freeway was 97 kmph, or 60-mph. The advisory speed limit posted for the on-ramp was 56 kmph, or 35 mph. Starting at the exit-ramp gore area, there was Chevron curve-warning signs posted adjacent to the left shoulder of the ramp. The crash occurred in the westbound travel lanes of the freeway that were comprised of: the #1 ramp exit lane, the #2 straight lane, and the #3 straight lane.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Honda Civic LX 4 door, was traveling westbound on the divided freeway in the #2 straight travel lane. The driver was not familiar with the roadway and was being assisted by her mother seated in the right front for travel directions. As V1 just about passed the turn for the on-ramp the passenger yelled out, "turn here!" The driver swerved sharp to the right causing the vehicle to cross the #1 ramp lane and then depart the roadway via the right shoulder. The driver swerved back to the left and over-corrected causing V1 to rotate in a clockwise yaw. The vehicle then crossed the ramp lane again from right to left and departed the roadway on the left side of the ramp lane. The left front wheel struck the outside left curb; the vehicle jumped the curb and continued skidding sideways into the grassy gore area. V1 traveled approximately 17-meters (56-feet) then rolled left two quarter turns and came to rest on its top with the front of the vehicle facing northeast. Vehicle one was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
The driver of vehicle one, a 23 year-old female, has 6 years driving experience. She was familiar with the vehicle, but it was the 1st time she traveled on the roadway. She was well rested and not ill. The driver has asthma and uses an inhaler, but states it does not effect her driving. She had been driving this last leg of this trip for about 10 minutes after stopping for breakfast. The entire trip started over 161 kilometers (100 miles) prior to where the crash occurred. She admitted she was running late for a party. The driver was wearing a lap & shoulder belt and was not injured. The passenger, a 47-year-old female was also wearing a lap & shoulder belt and not injured. The tires on the vehicle were all studded mud & snow tires and the right front tire had an inflation pressure of only 97 KPA, or 14 PSI; the left front was deflated from the crash; the right rear tire had an inflation pressure of 234 KPA, or 34 PSI; and the left rear tire had an inflation pressure of 172 KPA, or 25 PSI. The mismatch in tire pressure was considered a factor for this vehicle that would affect its handling.