This crash occurred on an area of interstate that runs East and West. There are 8-lanes of travel. There are four in each direction with a concrete barrier wall in the center median. The speed is posted at 113 kmph (70 mph). This section of interstate was curved to the left with a radius of 375.11m and a super elevation of + 4/122. This crash occurred at the beginning of the week at mid afternoon. The skies were cloudy.
As the traffic negotiated the curve V1 was traveling in lane 2. There was a vehicle just back to the right in lane 1 and a vehicle in lane 3 just to V1's left. V1 was cut off as the vehicle in lane 3 changed lanes causing V1 to swerve out of control crossing all lanes of travel to the left and leaving the roadway to contact the center median wall. Then came back onto the roadway rotating clockwise and crossing all four lanes of travel to contact the guardrail on the right side of the interstate. After contacting the guard rail the vehicle slid back onto the roadway to final rest facing west in the eastbound traffic way. The driver was taken to a witness's vehicle on the side of the roadway to wait for EMS and police. While the driver and the witness were on a cell phone to 911-another vehicle contacted V1 and pushed it from final rest to the center median lane were it contacted a van that was park due to mechanical problems. The vehicle was towed from the scene and the driver was taken to the local ER by a friend. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
Vehicle 1 a 2000 Pontiac Grand Prix was driven by a 24 year-old female that stated she had just returned from taking her children to Indiana for a visit with there grandparents. She stopped at home to change for work and was on her way to her place of work when the crash occurred. She stated that she was cut off by a light gold vehicle that caused her to go out of control crossing the lanes of travel to her left and slid along the center wall then got back on to the highway and skid clockwise across the roadway off the right side and contacted the guard rail. Then slid back onto the highway to final rest facing west. She stated she was very mixed up as to what had happen. She remembers someone pulling her arm stating please come sit in my vehicle this is not safe. Just at the time she sat down she noted another vehicle passing the vehicle she was sitting in on the road side and hitting her vehicle. She stated she was very thankful that the witness got her out of her vehicle.
The witness stated that there was not much traffic in the general area at the time but the traffic was slowing down up ahead due to construction up ahead. She stated there was only her vehicle in lane 1 getting ready to exit the highway. Then there was V1 in lane 2 and a gold color vehicle in lane 3. She stated she looked at her exit then back to the highway to see the gold vehicle changing lanes and cutting off the silver vehicle (V1). She then started to slow down because V1 was swerving right and left very fast. She stated as V1 contacted the center wall she pulled off the highway to the right side. She also stated that V1 then crossed back over the roadway to hit the guard rail on the south side of the roadway then sliding back onto the roadway coming to final rest in the roadway facing west. She stated the vehicle that cut V1 off never stopped. She ran up to the vehicle and told the driver to get out and come to her vehicle and wait for police it was not safe to stay in her vehicle. She was calling 911 for the 3rd or 4th time when a vehicle came passed and never tried to change lanes or even break it just hit V1 like a crash test.