The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a two-way, six-lane roadway, divided by a concrete barrier wall. There were three northbound and three southbound lanes. This was a straight, level, asphalt roadway with a posted speed of 105 kmph (65 mph). Conditions were daylight on a weekday morning with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.
V1, a 2003 Chevy Impala with three occupants, was traveling in lane two. The driver of V1 lost control of his vehicle as he attempted to change lanes. V1 traveled in a northwest direction, rotating counterclockwise until the front of V1 made contact with the concrete barrier wall. V1 then rolled to the right two and one-half times (ten quarter turns), before coming to final rest on its rooftop, straddling lanes one and two. All three occupants were transported due to injury. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1.
V1 was driven by a 21-year old male. He stated that he was taking his wife to work. His wife, who was also present during the interview, stated that they were running very late for the start of her work shift. He said he was in the middle lane. There was a Honda Accord that had been traveling behind him for ten minutes or so. According to the driver, whenever he changed lanes, the Honda Accord changed lanes right behind him. The driver indicated that he was traveling at about 128 kmph (80 mph). There was a slower moving SUV ahead of V1. The driver decided to change lanes to the right to pass the SUV. He looked in his rear-view mirror and put on his turn signal. He recalled that the Honda was still behind him. As he started to make the lane change, he looked in his side mirror and the lane appeared to be clear. But as he executed the maneuver, the Honda was right next to him. The driver stated that the Honda must have been in his blind spot. Apparently, the Honda was passing V1 at the same time that V1 was trying to pass the SUV. The driver jerked the wheel back to the left, and also had to jam on his brakes to avoid rear-ending the SUV. As a result, the driver lost control of his vehicle. He stated that he hit the inside wall and then flipped at least two or three times.