The crash occurred in an intersection of an east/west roadway and a shopping plaza. On the west side of the intersection, there were four westbound lanes (including one left turn-only lane) and two eastbound lanes. On the eastbound side of the intersection, there were 3 eastbound lanes (including one left turn-only lane) and 3 westbound lanes. This was a straight section of roadway with a downhill grade greater than 2 percent in the westbound direction. The bituminous roadway had a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). It was mid-morning on a weekday. The roadway was dry and the sky was cloudy. This was a heavily traveled intersection and traffic flow was heavy at the time.
V1, a 1995 Ford Taurus four-door with 2 occupants, was stopped facing east in the left turn lane (lane 3), waiting for traffic to clear so he could turn left into a shopping plaza. V2, a 1992 Acura Vigor four-door with 2 occupants, was traveling westbound in lane 2, traveling at approximately 40 kmph (25 mph) straight through the intersection. V1 turned in front of V2 and the front of V2 struck the right front side of V1. Following this impact, V1 rotated in a counterclockwise direction while V2 rotated in a clockwise direction. The right rear of V1 "slapped" the left rear side of V2 as the vehicles rotated. Both vehicles then came to final rest in the intersection facing in a northwest direction. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the Ford Taurus, was driven by an 80-year old male. Both he and his passenger were transported for non-incapacitating injuries. The driver of V1 had left the bank only minutes before the crash and was turning into the shopping center (northbound). The driver reported that he was turning left at a speed of about 6 kmph (4 mph).
V2, the Acura Vigor, was driven by a 20-year old female. Both she and her passenger were transported for non-incapacitating injuries. She stated that she was westbound in lane 3 intending to go straight (evidence from the scene indicated that she was in lane 2). She reported her vehicle speed as 40 kmph (25 mph). V2 had come from her mother's home in a nearby town and she had traveled approximately 25 miles when the crash occurred. Upon seeing V1 turn in front of her, the driver of V2 attempted to avoid the crash by braking and steering to the right. The front of V2 contacted the right front of V1.