The crash occurred on an undivided four-lane U.S. highway with two lanes of travel (north/south) in each direction. The north and southbound lanes were divided by a double yellow line. The roadway was straight with a downhill grade of 3 percent if northbound and an uphill grade of 3 percent if southbound. There were no paved shoulders or traffic controls present. The posted speed limit was 80 kmph/50 mph.
Vehicle #1, a 1997 Chevrolet Lumina, was traveling south in the left southbound lane when it crossed the centerline and struck Vehicle #2, a 1988 Honda Civic with its (V1) front to Vehicle #2's left side in a sideswipe type crash. Vehicle #2 then went into a counterclockwise spin and went off the left (west) side of the roadway backwards and struck a tree with its rear, coming to rest facing southeast about 12 meters west of the road. After striking V2, Vehicle #1 continued in the left lane for a brief moment before striking Vehicle #3, a 1997 Oldsmobile Aurora head-on in a left offset frontal type crash. Vehicle #3 then rotated clockwise as it rolled one complete turn to its right coming to rest about 12 meters north of point of impact with Vehicle #3 facing south in the right northbound lane. Vehicle #1 came to rest straddling the double yellow center lines facing southeast about 28 meters south of its point of impact with V3. The crash eventually involved nine vehicles that contacted each other with two additional non-contact vehicles listed on the police report. Although the police report indicated that V5 contacted V1, there was no evidence to substantiate any contact between these two vehicles. Also, the police report indicated that V8, a motorcycle contacted V3; however, the motorcycle skidded under V3 after V3 had stabilized. All three case vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
Vehicle #1 was driven by an unrestrained 21-year old male whose airbags deployed in this crash. He was killed and pronounced dead on scene. His family was unwilling to give an interview to the researcher.
Vehicle #3 was driven by a belted 74-year old male whose airbag deployed. He was transported from the scene with incapacitating injuries after being entrapped and then extricated from his vehicle.
Vehicle #3 was not involved in the first harmful event and therefore, no Critical Pre-crash Event and no Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. One associated factor coded to this vehicle was a tire/wheel deficiency due to low tread on all four tires. No additional contributing factors were coded to this driver.