This three-vehicle crash occurred in the third southbound lane of a seven-lane divided roadway. The roadway consisted of three through lanes and one left turn lane in the southbound direction and three through lanes in the northbound direction. The roadway was straight and bituminous with an uphill grade and a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The crash occurred during the morning hours with rush hour traffic congestion. The sky was cloudy and the road was dry.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Nissan Maxima, was southbound in lane three. Vehicle three (V3), a 1993 Subaru Impreza, was also southbound in lane three behind V1. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Subaru Legacy, was stalled in lane three. V1 was traveling behind a non-contact vehicle when the non-contact vehicle swerved to the left to avoid contacting the stalled V2. V1 braked and attempted to steer left but the front struck the rear of V2. After V1's contact with V2, V3 struck the back of V1 with its front. V1 came to rest in lanes three and four, facing south. V2 came to rest in lane three facing south. V3 came to rest in lanes two and three facing southeast. All three vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1 and 0 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a thirty-six-year-old female, was on her way to work from home when the crash occurred. She reported braking and steering left to avoid striking V3. She was well rested. She works thirty-six hours per week, drives this route daily and is very comfortable with the vehicle. She stated being in good health and takes vitamins daily. The non-contact vehicle in front of V1 created a sightline issue for the driver of V1 to recognize that V2 was disabled in the traffic lane.
The driver of V2, a twenty-four-year-old male, was on his way to work from home when his engine stalled after being stopped at a stoplight. He stated he was talking on his cell phone with his parents about the vehicle being stalled when the crash occurred. He was well rested. He works forty-hours per week, drives this route daily and is very comfortable with this vehicle. He stated being in good health and takes no medications.
The driver of V3, an eighteen-year-old female, was on her way to school from home when the crash occurred. She stated she heard the first crash but was unable to keep from hitting V1. She was rested. She works thirty-hours per week, drives this route daily and is comfortable with the vehicle. She stated being in good health and takes no medications.