The crash occurred at a four-legged intersection in the southbound lanes of a suburban roadway with a grass median. From the southbound approach, there were two southbound lanes and a right turn lane. From the northbound approach there were two northbound lanes and a left turn lane leading to a highway on ramp. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The northbound approach had a 2% downhill grade while the southbound approach had a 1 % uphill grade. Conditions were dusk and dry with clear skies. The setting was late afternoon hours on a weekend.
Vehicle one was a 2003 Chevrolet Tahoe sport utility traveling north in lane three preparing to turn left. Vehicle two was a 2003 Buick Rendezvous compact utility traveling southbound in lane two. V1 decelerated as it approached the intersection, saw a pickup stopped facing her from the oncoming lanes, and then proceeded to turn left. V2 traveled across the intersection. The front of V1 impacted the left side of V2. V1 traveled a short distance off the southwest corner of the intersection and came to rest. V2 traveled off the southwest corner of the intersection while rotating counter-clockwise. V2 then rolled right approximately five quarter turns, coming to rest on the roadside on its left side. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.
The Chevrolet Tahoe (V1) was driven by a 19-year old female. The driver and her three other passengers were transported to a local trauma center with non-incapacitating injuries. She stated that she was heading back to college with her friends and had thought the other car was allowing her to turn left at the intersection. She began turning and didn't notice V2 coming. She braked just before impact, but it was too late to avoid the collision. The Chevrolet sport utility was towed due to damage.
The Buick Rendezvous (V2) was driven by a 65-year old male who was transported to a local trauma center with incapacitating injuries. He stated that he was finishing up an out of town work trip and about to get on the main highway home. As he traveled through an intersection, he was struck by an oncoming turning vehicle. He didn't have a chance to react. The collision caused his vehicle to rollover on the side of the road. The Buick sport utility was towed due to damage.