This two-vehicle crash occurred on a dry, straight, traffic controlled light with pedestrian signals, four-leg intersection. The roads run east to west and north to south at the location. Westbound lanes consist of three through lanes and one left turn lane and northbound lanes consists of one right turn lane, one through lane and one left turn lane. The speed limit for westbound traffic is 56 kph (35 mph) and for northbound is 48 kph (30 mph). There were no adverse weather conditions at the time.
Vehicle one, a 1988 Cadillac Eldorado was westbound in lane two going straight. Vehicle two, a 1998 Nissan Sentra was stopped northbound in lane two for a red light. The northbound light turned green and vehicle two started into the intersection the same time as vehicle one. Vehicle one impacted with its front to vehicle two's right side. Vehicle one rotated slightly clockwise and vehicle two rotated counter clockwise and vehicle one impacted with its left to vehicle two's right side. After the second impact, vehicle one came to rest on its wheels facing northwest on the north side of the intersection. Vehicle two came to rest on its wheels facing northwest on the north side of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.
The driver of vehicle one, a seventeen-year old male was driving from one school to another school at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about seven minutes at the time of the crash. This driver has only been driving for about one year's time and has already been required to take court ordered defensive driving for a ticket about three weeks ago. This driver indicated that he does not remember much about the crash. This driver was taking Aleve and Albuterol as medications. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.
The driver of vehicle two, a twenty-six year old female was driving to breakfast from her mom's house at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about thirty-five minutes at the time of the crash. This driver indicated that she was thinking about an upcoming new house inspection that she had to attend. This driver was also having a social conversation with the passenger. This driver takes a daily vitamin. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.