This four-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of two, two-lane roadways in a rural/agricultural location. The intersection is straight and level and bituminous surfaces. The north/south roadway is controlled by a stop sign with a flashing red light. The east/west roadway had no traffic controls. The posted speed limit for both roadways is 80 kmph (50 mph). This crash occurred during pre-dawn hours with darkness, no overhead lighting and no adverse atmospheric conditions. There are no sight line restrictions for any of the drivers at this location.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Toyota Camry LE four door, was southbound in the number one lane of the north/south roadway approaching the intersection controlled by a flashing red light and a stop sign. V1 was traveling about 80 kmph (50 mph). Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Ford Expedition 4x4 SUV, was eastbound in the number one lane of the east/west roadway traveling at 80 kmph (50 mph). Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1 and 80 kmph for V2.
V1 did not stop at the stop sign and entered the intersection across the path of V2. The driver of V2 applied the brakes and the Front of V2 impacted with the right side (towards the rear) of V1. V1 then rotated clockwise while continuing forward and its left side struck the front of vehicle three (V3). V3 was a 1998 Ford pick-up truck towing a trailer that contained two "Porta-Potties" and was stopped at the intersection facing north. V1 then reversed the rotation and began to rotate counterclockwise. V1's front then struck the left rear of V3. V1 continued to rotate and its right plane near the front of the vehicle impacted with the left side of V3's trailer. V1 then continued to rotate counterclockwise and its right side struck vehicle four (V4), a 2005 Nissan Altima, which was stopped behind V3. After the first impact with vehicle one V2 rotated clockwise 180 degrees and came to final on the shoulder rest near a canal facing westbound. V4 was facing north at final rest and in contact with V1 that was facing northeast. V3 was facing northbound at final rest. The trailer towed by V3 contained two "Porta-Potties", one of which was knocked off the trailer; however the trailer remained attached to V3 via fixed linkage. Vehicle's 1 and 2 were towed due to damage. Vehicle's 3 and 4 were driven from the scene and not towed.
The driver of V1, an eighteen-year-old male, had left his home with a nineteen-year-old male passenger about twenty minutes before the crash. Their intention was to leave the United States at a nearby border crossing and travel into Mexico. The driver and the passenger were conversing and listening to the radio at the time of the crash. This driver was in good health, was not taking any medications, and did wear contact lenses. The driver went to bed at 0130 hours and arose at 0500 hours the morning of this crash. He stated that he was conversing with the passenger, ran the stop sign, and never saw V2 until they collided.
The driver of V2, a thirty seven year old male, had just left his residence about 10 minutes before the crash. There were four children, two adult passengers, and the driver in this vehicle. This driver was in good general health, had taken no drugs and did not wear glasses. He went to bed at 2200 hours the night before and arose at 0500 hours the morning of the crash. He slept for seven hours the night before. The driver indicated that he saw the headlights of V1 approaching the intersection, assumed he would stop at the stop sign, just before V1 crossed in front of him. The driver of V2 applied full ABS braking, but struck V1 in the right front. The driver stated that this was a brand new vehicle with less than 3,218-kilometers (2,000 miles), and was in excellent condition.
The driver of V3, a forty five year old male, was towing a trailer loaded with two "Porta-Potties" and had left the employer's yard at 0530 hours, about thirty minutes prior to the crash. He stated that he was stopped at the stop sign in the number one lane of the northbound roadway waiting for traffic when V1 ran the stop sign, hit V2, spun around and struck him twice. This driver slept in his home the night before, went to bed at 2100 hours and arose at 0430 hours. This driver stated that he was in good health, had taken no drugs and did not require glasses.
There was an "other" fourth vehicle involved, a 2005 Nissan 4 door, driven by a twenty-year-old female who was not interviewed and the vehicle was not inspected. This vehicle was stopped behind V3 in the number one, northbound lane.
V3 was not involved in the first harmful event, and the critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.