This crash occurred in the westbound lane of a three-lane roadway. There were shoulder areas on both the right and left sides of the westbound lanes: during the daytime the lanes were used for parking and travel lanes during the evenings. There were signalized traffic control devices controlling all directions of travel. The roads surfaces were bituminous level, straight, and wet. The roadways were wet because of a consistent drizzle throughout the afternoon and evening. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred on a weekend during the middle evening dark hours, overhead streetlights illuminated the roads. The roadway was free of any defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.
Vehicle one, 1996 Chrysler Town and Country mini van, was traveling westbound in lane two of the three lane roadway attempted to make a left turn when it contacted with its front the right side of vehicle two, a 1993 Chevrolet Caprice 4 door sedan, traveling westbound, in lane three of the same roadway. After the initial impact, vehicle one traveled a few feet rotated slightly counter-clockwise where it came to final rest continuing to face westward. Vehicle two, after the initial impact, rotated slightly clockwise traveled several feet where it came to final rest also facing westward. Vehicle one was towed from the scene due to severe damages. Vehicle two was not towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
The driver of vehicle one, 36-year old female, said she was traveling westbound approaching the intersection when she realized she needed to make a left turn southbound, As she preceded to make her turn she didn't see vehicle two approaching her left in lane three. She'd traveled several hundred miles to visit family and friends a few days ago and was on her way back home. It was dark and she was lost and to make matters worst, it was raining with a van full of children. She was not paying full attention, she said, she was looking at her map for directions, drinking water, and talking to the children, right after another. This was her fist time on the roadway. She'd travel to her destination without event. She's been a license driver for a little over 18-years. Neither she nor any of her seven passengers were injured.
The driver of vehicle two, a 23-year old male, said he was traveling westbound already occupying lane three approaching the intersection when his vehicle was contacted by vehicle one encroaching into his lane from the adjoining right lane. It was raining and dark and could understand, he said, how something like this could happen. He was on his way home from the store. He was not injured. However, his one passenger was transported to the hospital with non-treating injuries.