This two-vehicle crash occurred at a traffic-signal controlled interchange of an interstate highway and an urban road. The westbound roadway entering the intersection is two-way, uphill, and straight and consists of two through lanes in each direction. Going west, there is a single left-turn-only lane to the interstate and going east, there is a double left- turn-only lane to the interstate. The speed limit for this roadway is 56 kph (35 mph). The northbound roadway entering the intersection is an exit ramp for the interstate. It is one-way, uphill, straight, and consists of a left-turn-only lane (lane three) and a left-turn or through lane (lane two). The speed limit for this roadway is 48 kph (30 mph). This crash occurred in the early afternoon on a weekday. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions; the road was dry and traffic was moderate.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Kia Sedona minivan, was westbound in lane two, traveling straight through the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 four-door Chevrolet Geo Prizm Lsi, was northbound in lane two, traveling straight through the intersection to get back onto the highway. The driver of V1 stepped on the brakes, but the front of V1 struck the right side of V2. V1 rotated clockwise and came to rest on all four wheels facing north in lane two of the entrance ramp to the highway on the north side of the intersection. V2 rotated counterclockwise, ran up on the northwest curb, struck a guardrail with its left front, and came to rest on all four wheels facing north. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a twenty-four-year old female, was on her way home from a doctor's appointment for her two-month-old baby. She lives a couple of hundred miles away and is not familiar with the area where the crash occurred. She stated that she thought she had the green light, but was looking for signage to get back onto the highway in the direction that she needed. She said she was not in a hurry at all, but was also watching out for cars behind her so that she didn't cut anyone off. Also, the driver was probably fatigued since she didn't get to bed until two on the morning of the crash. She said she got about five hours of sleep; she normally gets six and a half. Her baby doesn't sleep through the night yet, so she has to get up at odd hours to feed and take care of it. Furthermore, she had already driven three and a half hours that morning to get to the appointment for the baby. She reported no injuries for either her or her baby and stated that she had her lap and shoulder belt on; her baby was in a car seat.
The driver of V2, a thirty-five-year old female, had just taken over the driving shortly before the crash occurred because her passenger, a twenty-six-year old male, wasn't feeling well. They were on their way home from a gambling town where they had spent the night before in a hotel. She said she rarely drove on this roadway and was feeling rested at the beginning of this trip. Both she and her passenger were transported to a medical facility with minor injuries. They were both reported to have worn their lap and shoulder belts.