This five vehicle daytime collision occurred during the morning rush hour. The collision occurred at the intersection of a north-south arterial road and a southeast to northwest road. The arterial road has a downhill grade of -5% for northbound traffic, consisting of 5 lanes of two-way traffic with a two-way turn lane for the center lane. Road surface blacktop, dry the intersecting road has a downhill grade of -7% away from the intersection (southeast direction) and consists of two lanes of traffic, one in each direction. The speed limit for both roads is 48 kmph (30 mph).
Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Ford E350 van driven by a 24 year-old male, was traveling southeast in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1992 Volvo 940 sedan driven by a 37 year-old female, was stopped facing north in lane one of the arterial road. Vehicle three (V3), a 2004 Ford Explorer SUV driven by a 62 year-old male, was stopped behind another vehicle facing northwest towards the intersection. Vehicles four (V4) and vehicle five (V5), a 2001 Volvo V70 station wagon and a 2003 Honda CRV SUV respectively, were stopped behind V3. V1 proceeded into the intersection as V2 started from a stop. The front of V2 struck the right side of V1, and V1 deflected to the left. The front of V1 then struck the left front corner of V3, and pushed the front of V3 into a clockwise circle with V1 tracing the outside radius of V3. V3 was pushed into V4, and V4 was pushed into V5. V4 was the only vehicle not towed due to disabling damage. The driver of V2 was transported to a local medical facility. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 stated that he was following another vehicle through the intersection, and didn't realize that the light had turned red until he was in the intersection. On the approach to the intersection, the view of the control lights is completely obscured by sun glare at the time and date of the crash. The driver of V2 was unable to be contacted for an interview. The driver of V3 stated on-scene that he saw the vehicle next to V2 start when the light turned green, then stop to let V1 through the intersection. He also stated that there was a car in front of V3 that was able to turn right onto the arterial road quick enough to avoid the crash. Due to the obvious delay between the light turning red for V1, and the time that V1 entered the intersection.