This crash occurred on a five-lane divided roadway with a positive barrier. The fifth lane is an HOV lane that is separated from the other four lanes by a concrete median barrier. The end of the barrier is protected by a series of traffic barrels. The HOV lane begins prior to the barrels. The road was dry, traveled, uphill, and straight with a concrete surface. The posted speed limit is 96 kph (60 mph). Traffic was moderate at the time of the accident. This crash occurred before dawn with clear skies. The roadway was lighted.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Ford Ranger with one occupant, was eastbound in the HOV lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Chevrolet Avalanche with one occupant, was eastbound in the third travel lane some distance behind V1. V1 initially entered the HOV lane, traveled some distance and then attempted to return to lane four. The front of V1 struck the barrels separating the HOV lane from the rest of the eastbound traffic lanes. After striking the traffic barrier, vehicle one crossed through the fourth travel lane and the front of V1 struck the left side of V2. V! rotated counterclockwise and came to rest facing west in the fourth travel lane. V2 veered left and the front of the vehicle struck the concrete traffic barrier. V2 was then redirected to the right and the left side of vehicle two rubbed against the concrete barrier. V2 came to rest facing east in the fourth travel lane. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Both drivers were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a twenty-nine year old male, was heading to work from home at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about ten minutes at the time of the crash. He drives the route daily and is familiar with the vehicle. This driver stated that he was cut-off by another vehicle from his left, but there is no evidence of another vehicle at the scene. For an unknown reason, the driver of V1 decided to move to lane four from the HOV lane where the vehicle struck the barrels.
The driver of V2, a twenty-five year old female, refused to be interviewed.