The crash occurred early on a weekday morning in a slightly offset 4-way intersection controlled by a traffic signal. The east/west roadway was a 3-lane undivided roadway that was straight and level with a center left turn-only lane in each direction. The intersecting roadway ran north and south. The roadways were asphalt-paved and were dry. The sky was clear and there was a very bright sunrise directly out of the east. Traffic density was moderate. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph).
V1 was a 1996 Ford Taurus 4-door sedan traveling westbound in lane one occupied only by the driver. V2, a 1990 Acura Legend 4-door sedan occupied by only the driver, was making a left turn from the eastbound left turn-only lane (lane 2) to lane one of the side street. V1 had a green light and the right of way. The traffic signal was working properly at the time of the crash. V2 attempted to turn left in front of V1 and was struck on its right side by the front of V1. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1 was driven by a 50-year old female who reported a sore right wrist. She was transported to hospital due to her injuries and concern about a previous heart condition for which she was taking several prescribed medicines. She advised that she was on her way to work from home and that she had a green light while she was westbound at about 33 mph (53 kmph). She had been listening to a CD and was looking straight ahead with both hands on the steering wheel. She said that earlier she had noticed a very bright sunrise behind her but added that it had not distracted her. She said she did not remember hitting her brakes prior to the crash when V2 turned into her path. There were no visible skid marks on the roadway or at the impact point as confirmed by scene photos. She advised that after the crash the other driver told her he had not seen her vehicle prior to the crash because of the sunrise in his eyes. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage.
V2 was driven by a 34-year old male who was not injured. He stated that he had stopped in the left turn-only lane on the eastbound roadway for about 10 seconds prior to starting to turn left to the northbound road. He said that he had a green turn arrow and that he had not seen V1 approaching from the opposite direction. As he was turning he noticed V1 headed directly at him about 30 feet away and he tried to accelerate to avoid contact, but he was unsuccessful. V2 had a green light but no protected left turn arrow, although he claimed that he did. If V1 had a green light, V2 could not have had a green protected left turn arrow. After the crash, the driver of V2 moved his vehicle to a private parking lot prior to researcher arrival. V2 was not towed.