This three-vehicle crash occurred on a curved, physically divided, five-lane roadway with no traffic controls. The road run east and west at the location of the crash and has two through lanes and one left turn lane in each direction. A private driveway was involved with three-lanes, one northbound lane and one southbound lane and one southbound left turn lane. The speed limit for east and westbound travel is 64 kph (40mph) and there were no adverse weather conditions at the time.
Vehicle one, a 1988 Buick Le Sabre was southbound in the left turn lane. Vehicle two, a 2004 Dodge Neon was east bound in lane two. Vehicle three, a 2002 Pontiac Montana, was westbound in lane two. Vehicle one was stopped in the driveway and proceeded to turn left and impacted its front to vehicle two's left side. Vehicle two drove off the left side of the road over a curbed median. Vehicle two drove off the curbed median into westbound lane two where vehicle three impacted with its front to vehicle two's right side. Vehicle two rotated counter clockwise and vehicle three rotated slightly clockwise and vehicle two impacted with its right side to vehicle three's left side. After the impact, vehicle one rotated counter clockwise and came to rest in lane two of the eastbound lane facing north on its wheels. After the third impact, vehicle two drove off the north side of the road, over a curbed sidewalk and came to rest against a curbed parking lot on its wheels facing northwest on its wheels. After the second impact, vehicle three came to rest between lanes one and two facing northwest on its wheels. Vehicle one was not towed due to damage. Vehicle two and three were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.
The driver of vehicle one, a thirty-year old female was driving to her lawyer at the time of the crash. This driver had just started this trip from the parking lot that she was exiting. This driver was upset about having to see her lawyer. This driver indicated that she looked right then left but not back to the right. This driver was taking Envet for her allergies. This driver does not typically drive this vehicle and only rarely on this roadway.
The driver of vehicle two, a twenty-year old female was driving home from the motor vehicle license office. This driver could not remember when she started this trip. This driver stated that she saw vehicle one and he just kept coming. This driver felt like she had nowhere to go to avoid the crash. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.
The driver of vehicle three, a seventy-three year old male was heading home from a doctors visit. This driver could not remember how long he had been driving on this trip. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.