This two-vehicle crash occurred shortly before noon on a dry, bituminous, three-leg intersection. The westbound roadway curves left and the eastbound roadway is straight. There are two through lanes for westbound traffic and two through lanes, one merge lane and one left turn lane for eastbound traffic. The south and northbound traffic is divided and straight with two lanes on each side. Southbound has one left turn lane and one right turn lane and has a stop sign for controls. Northbound has two through lanes. The speed limit for east and westbound is 64 kph (40 mph) and for north and southbound is 40 kph (25 mph) and it was cloudy at the time of the crash.
Vehicle one, a 1995 Toyota Camry LE, with one occupant, was southbound, stopped at a stop sign in lane two, the left turn lane. Vehicle two, a 1994 Suburu Impreza, with a driver, was westbound in lane one negotiating a left curve. Driver one proceeded a little forward to look left again. She did not see vehicle two because of the cloudy day and the vehicle blending into the green scenery. She proceeded to make the left turn in front of vehicle two. The driver of vehicle two applied the brakes and steered to the left before the front of vehicle two struck the left side of vehicle one. After the impact, vehicle one rotated clockwise and came to rest on its wheels facing west in the number one lane of the westbound traffic in the middle of the intersection. After the impact, vehicle two rotated counter clockwise and came to rest on its wheels facing southwest in the number three lane of the eastbound traffic next to the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.
Vehicle one was equipped with a driver and right frontal airbag, which did not deploy. The driver was wearing her lap and shoulder belt and was transported to a trauma center with minor injuries. The vehicle was towed from the scene due to moderate left side damage. Vehicle two was equipped with a driver airbag, which deployed. The driver was wearing his lap and shoulder belt and was transported to a trauma center with minor injuries. The vehicle was towed from the scene due to moderate frontal damage.