This two-vehicle intersection crash occurred on a 6-lane roadway with a center two-way left turn lane. This roadway runs east to west with a left hand curve and a downgrade of -6% for the westbound lanes. The radius of curvature is 2,250 meters (7,380 feet) with a cross slope of 4 %. This crash occurred during darkness with no street lighting and no adverse weather. The posted speed limit is 72 kmph (45 mph). Located to the north of the roadway is a driveway leading to/from various business establishments.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 black Chevrolet Tracker with one occupant, was turning left from the business parking lot. Vehicle two (V2), a 1992 Mazda pickup with a fiberglass camper shell and one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane three approaching the intersection. The front of V2 struck the left side of V1. At impact, both vehicle rotated counter clockwise, V2 coming to rest facing east in the eastbound lanes. V1 at impact traveled across the eastbound lanes and came to final rest on the shoulder facing east. The driver of V1 was injured and was extricated from this vehicle. The driver was air-evacuated to a trauma center where he was admitted for his injuries. The driver of V2 was not injured. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 18 kmph for V1 and 18 kmph for V2.
The 67 year-old male driver of V1 stated he had been to an eatery at that location and was on his way home. He drives the route daily and is familiar with the vehicle. He stated that he had stopped and looked left (where he saw V2 coming) and then looked right for traffic. He failed to look left again before proceeding. He stated that he felt he could cross the westbound traffic safely and proceeded into the roadway. He stated that he is in fair health and suffers from high blood pressure, enlarged prostate and anxiety with depression. He does take daily medication that includes Flagyl, Spironazide, Clonidine and Lorazepam. The driver has a history of cervical spine and back problems. He is retired. Medical records state a BAC of 0.242.
A 19 year-old male was driving V2. He stated the he saw V1 stopped at the driveway and falsely assumed the driver would yield the right of way. The driver was listening to the radio at the time. The driver was on his way to work from his residence and had driven approximately 64 kilometers (40 miles).