This two-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of an urban 4-legged signal-controlled intersection with crosswalks present in all direction. The eastbound approach was straight, level, bituminous with three lanes, one being a left turn lane. The westbound approach was curved right with a +3% super-elevation, 5% uphill, bituminous with three lanes, one being a left turn lane. All roadways contained curbs and sidewalks. The posted speed limit for all directions was 72 kmph (45 mph). Conditions were dark without streetlights on a weekday evening.
Vehicle One (V1), a 2002 Toyota Camry four-door sedan with one occupant, was eastbound in lane three approaching the intersection where it intended to turn left. Vehicle Two (V2), a 2000 Jeep Grand Cherokee with three occupants, was westbound in lane 2 approaching the intersection where it intended to go straight. As V1 turned left its front plane struck the left, front plane of V2. After impact, V1 rotated counter-clockwise 90 degrees and traveled 42 meters (138 feet) west, before coming to final rest facing west partially on the concrete center median. V2 traveled 21 meters (69 feet) northwest after impact before coming to final rest facing northwest with its front tires on the sidewalk. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a 59 year-old male, reported possible injuries, but refused to be transported from the scene. He was trying to have dinner that evening, but the wait to be seated was too long so he decided to try another restaurant. He reported being in the left turn lane with a green arrow. He didn't see any cars or headlights coming from the opposite direction, so he proceeded to make his left turn. He reported his travel speed at 24 kmph (15 mph). He looked and saw no approaching vehicles so he proceeded to make his turn. There was no time to perform any avoidance maneuvers, as the driver never saw V2.
The driver of V2, a 22 year-old male, was injured and transported along with the other occupants of his vehicle for treatment. He had just picked his two friends up and was on the way to have dinner with the passenger's family at a local restaurant. He reported being in lane 2, traveling at 72 kmph (45 mph). As he approached the intersection he noticed V1 in the opposite direction left turn lane "creeping" into the intersection. He reportedly took his foot off the gas, just in case V1 continued to proceed. However he thought V1 would not turn in front of him. He said the driver of V1 started to go, then hesitated, then decided to go, just as he entered in the intersection. He hit the brakes and steered right, but wasn't able to avoid the collision.