This three-vehicle crash occurred on a clear weekend afternoon in a rural part of town. The east/west undivided 2-lane roadway had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). Near the location of the crash, there were warning signs for both directions indicating a sharp curve. The radius of curvature as measured was 253 meters, which exceeded the AASHTO standard for a curve with a posted speed of 45 mph. Conditions were daylight and dry.
V1, a 2002 Ford Focus, was traveling east negotiating a curve to the left and V3, a 2004 Honda Pilot, was traveling behind V1. V2, a 2001 Mazda Protégé MP3, was traveling west approaching the same curve. After V1 came out of the curve, it crossed the double yellow lines and entered the westbound lane where it sideswiped V2. V2 was immediately struck again by the front of V3 after it (V2) spun into the eastbound lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.
V1 was driven by a 26-year old female who was returning home after shopping at the grocery store. This driver stated that she went shopping this afternoon because she was hosting a party that night and she needed some supplies. She swore she never crossed the double yellow lines but was not certain the other car swerved into her lane either. She only remembered that the crash happened as soon as she rounded the curve. She did not appear confident about how the crash occurred and began to cry, "I just want to go home" near the end of the interview. Her 4-year-old daughter was not injured in the crash but she was treated on the scene for a bloody nose and small bump to her left knee.
This driver denied that she was distracted by her child in the back seat or was talking on her mobile phone. She wore eyeglasses for her near-sightedness and was generally in good health. She was not fatigued this afternoon, was in a good mood before the crash and while she is currently unemployed, she was looking forward to beginning a new job in the next few weeks.
V2 was driven by a 25-year old male that was on a leisure trip this afternoon with his wife as they drove about 3 miles from their home to look at a house they were interested in purchasing. After looking at the house, they decided to drive into town to get some ice cream at their favorite restaurant. As they drove west on this 2-lane rural roadway, an eastbound vehicle (V1 Ford Focus) rounded a curve, crossed the double yellow lines, and drove into their path. This driver said there "was no reaction time" and slammed into the Ford Focus head-on. Immediately following the impact with the Focus, another eastbound vehicle slammed into this driver's car while it was still spinning from the first event. This driver received a fractured finger to his right hand, a three-inch laceration to his forehead and a small scratch to his left leg. His wife suffered bruising to her chest and pelvic area, most likely from the seat belt. Both occupants were treated on scene but were transported to a trauma center for further examination.
This driver reported to be in good health, did not take any medication, and wore eyeglasses for his near-sightedness. He stated that he drove on this road at least twice a week, and while he was driving his wife's car, he was very familiar with the operation of the car and frequently does the maintenance on it.
V3 was driven by a 46-year old female who was driving east behind V1 when they both rounded a curve to the left and V1 crossed into the oncoming traffic. This driver says she was "about three or four car-lengths" behind V1 when they both entered the curve. This driver said she slowed down because she knows how dangerous the curve is but that V1 turned to the inside of the roadway and continued east in the westbound lane. As this driver exited the curve, she saw V1 and V2 collide. She immediately steered right and braked but V2 spun into her lane and the two vehicles collided head-on.
This driver reported that she was in good health but had poor vision for which she wore eyeglasses. Other than her vision difficulty, she said she was in good shape and only takes an allergy medication. No Critical Pre-crash Event and no Critical Reason were coded to V3 because it was not involved in first harmful event.