This two-vehicle crash occurred in the third westbound lane of a seven-lane roadway divided by a raised brick median. At this point, the roadway makes a three-way intersection with an undivided north-south roadway controlled by a stop sign. This roadway extends north from the north-south roadway. The east-west roadway has three through lanes in the westbound direction, three through lanes with a left-turn-only lane in the eastbound direction, and is straight, level, and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The north-south roadway has one lane in each direction and is also straight, level, and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). This crash occurred in the early afternoon on a weekday; the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was moderate.
Vehicle one (V1), a four-door 1993 Subaru Legacy station wagon with only the driver present, was southbound in lane one, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a four-door 1985 Buick Century with only the driver present, was westbound in lane three. V1 stopped at the stop sign and the driver then attempted to make a left turn to go eastbound. Although the driver of V2 applied the brakes, the front of V2 impacted the left side of V1. V1 was pushed to its right and came to rest facing south in lane three of westbound traffic. V2 came to rest facing west-southwest in the same lane. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The driver of V1 was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a fifty-five year old male, was driving from his brother-in-law's nursing home to his own home. He drives this route daily, but stated in the driver interview that before the crash, he had always made a right turn at the intersection. He didn't remember many details of the collision. He has Tourette's Syndrome and ADHD, but claimed that neither condition affects his driving because he can always tell when an attack of tics is coming on and doesn't drive then. The medical report does not give any indication that he was suffering from an attack of tics at the time of the crash. He had taken Temazepam, Oxycontin, and Dexedrine in the 24 hours prior to the collision. He slept seven hours the night before the crash and said he felt rested at the beginning of the trip. Although there was no physical evidence to support the driver of V2's statement that the driver of V1 stopped in front of him in his lane. From the crash dynamics, V1 was traveling at a very slow speed or was stopped at impact
The driver of V2, a twenty-three year old male, was driving back to work from lunch. He is in good health and takes no medications. He had slept seven hours the night before the crash and was well rested. He drives this route daily and is very comfortable with his vehicle.