This crash occurred in the afternoon of a weekday in the middle of a four-way, commercial intersection. The intersection consisted of an east/west three-lane roadway (that served as the entrance to shopping center) and a north/south five-lane roadway (two lanes in direction divided by a center two-way left turn lane). The east/west roadway was dry, straight, level, and controlled by stop signs. The north/south roadway was dry and straight with a slight grade greater than 2% and a posted speed limit of 72kmph (45 mph). The traffic flow was heavy, as it was rush hour, but there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.
V1, a 2002 Lincoln LS, was stopped at the stop sign intending to turn left out of the commercial roadway. V2, a 2006 Ford F-150 pickup truck, was southbound in lane two approaching the intersection where it intended to continue straight through. As V1 began its left turn it crossed two lanes of traffic but stopped suddenly, straddling the center left turn lane. V2 was unable to stop and its front struck the left rear of V1. After impact V1 rotated counter-clockwise and came to rest facing northwest in lane one of the northbound lanes while V2 came to rest facing south in the middle turn lane. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1 and 0 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a 67-year-old male, stated that he was waiting for traffic to clear so that he could turn left. He thought he saw enough of an opening to complete his turn so he entered the intersection. As he crossed the two lanes of traffic he realized he could not complete his turn and came to a stop in the center lane. He was than struck by V2. He was transported for treatment of minor injuries.
The driver of V2, a 20-year-old male, claimed he saw V1 pull out of the commercial roadway and assumed he would complete his turn. He saw V1 stop in front of him and he tried to brake but could not avoid the crash. The driver of V2 was uninjured.