The crash occurred at a three-legged intersection in the northbound lane of a two-lane, rural roadway. There was a north-south roadway which was met on the west side by a side road. The east side of the intersection was under construction for a new roadway. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph) and a level grade for all approaches. Conditions were daylight and dry with cloudy skies. The setting was morning hours on a weekend.
Vehicle one was a 1997 Buick Park Avenue sedan traveling eastbound approaching the intersection. Vehicle two was a 1997 Infiniti I30 sedan traveling northbound approaching the same intersection. V1 did not realize his road terminated at the intersection, and proceeded to cross over at the same time as V2. The right plane of V1 was impacted by the front plane of V2. V1 traveled a short distance and came to rest just off the east side of the intersection. The driver of V2 lost control of his vehicle and traveled approximately 70 meters east of the intersection, coming to rest on top of a dirt mound. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.
The Buick Park Avenue (V1) was driven by a 48-year old male with three other passengers. The driver and his passengers were uninjured. He stated that he was heading home after a visit to out of state family. He had just begun a long road trip and was not familiar with the area. He felt that there was no adequate signage indicating the end of the roadway. He estimated his travel and impact speeds to be 75 kmph (47 mph) with no avoidance. It should be noted that there were two stop signs for his lane of travel and 12 meters of skid marks relating to his vehicle. The sedan was towed due to damage.
The Infiniti I30 (V2) was driven by a 40-year old male who was reported to have possible injuries, but was not transported. He stated that he was heading to work when another car came across the roadway into his path of travel. He steered right and braked, but was unable to avoid impact. He estimated his travel and impact speeds to be 64 kmph (40 mph). The sedan was towed due to damage.