This is two-vehicle intersection crash occurred at a four-way intersection that is controlled by operating overhead traffic signals with pedestrian lights. There are six traffic lanes with designated turn lanes for each leg of the intersection. There are two southbound lanes for through traffic, and one right turn lane and one left turn lane for both north and southbound traffic. There are two westbound lanes for through traffic, and one right turn and one left turn for both east and westbound traffic. The speed limit on both roadways is posted 35 MPH (56 KPH). The crash occurred during the daylight in the late afternoon on a Tuesday. The roadway was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was congested. There were no environmental factors that contributed to this crash.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Ford Ranger XLT 4x2 pickup with one occupant, was traveling southbound approaching the intersection. As the vehicle approached the intersection the light changed from green to red and V1 entered the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Ford F150 XLT 4x4 Supercab pickup with one occupant, was stopped in the number four left turn lane facing north, on a green light. The driver pulled forward into the intersection and waited for more than 10 seconds to make a left turn. The light changed from green to yellow and the driver tried to complete the left turn. The front of V2 struck the front of V1. Both vehicles came to rest at the impact point. Neither driver was injured. V1 was towed from the scene while V2 was driven. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a 21 year-old male on active duty stated that he thought he could make it through the intersection. He assumed that the other vehicle would not go forward, and would yield to him. He is familiar with the vehicle and drives the route daily. He was returning to the base from a bowling alley.
The driver of V2, a 21 year-old male also on active duty, stated that he saw V1 approaching but thought he would stop. He advised that he had just left the base and was going to a fast-food restaurant. He advised that he had been in the number four left turn lane waiting to make a left turn on a green light. The light changed to yellow and he entered the intersection. He advised that he saw V1 coming toward him but thought he would stop for the red light. V1 entered the intersection as he was completing his left turn.