This is a two-vehicle crash that occurred mid-afternoon during daylight hours at four-way intersection that is controlled by a traffic light on colors. There are two westbound and two eastbound lanes and left turn lane at the intersection. The roadway is divided by a raised concrete median. There is one northbound and one southbound lane and a left turn lane at the intersection. There is a dedicated northbound right turn lane. The speed limit on the east/west bound lanes is posted 56 KPH (35 MPH). The speed limit on the north/south roadway is posted 40 KPH (25 MPH). The roadways are straight, dry and constructed asphalt. The sky was clear.
Vehicle one (V-1), a 1995 Nissan Sentra,sedan driven by a 17 year-old male with two passengers was traveling westbound in the #2 lane. Vehicle two (V-2), a 1995 Ford Taurus sedan driven by a 38 year-old male was traveling northbound in the #2 lane. V-1 entered the intersection on a red light and was struck on the left side by the front of V-2. The impact caused V-1 to rotate counterclockwise in the intersection. V-1 traveled across the intersection in a westerly direction while rotating coming to rest facing east in the crosswalk. V-2 rotated clockwise and traveled into the #1 westbound before coming to rest in the #1 westbound lane facing west. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.
The driver of V 1 stated that he was traveling westbound in the #2 lane approaching the intersection. He entered the intersection on a green light and was struck by V-2. He said that V-2 ran the red light. The vehicle was towed due to damage.
The driver of V 2 stated that he stopped for the red light and then proceeded through the intersection when the light turned green. He said that he did not see the other car coming before the crash. The vehicle was towed due to damage. A witness stated that he was stopped behind V-2 at the red light. He said that when the light turned green for V-2, the driver went through the intersection and struck the left side of V-1. He said that V-1 was traveling westbound in the #2 lane and failed to stop for the red light.
The pre-event movement for V 1 coded going straight, category this vehicle traveling crossing over passing through intersection. Critical reason driver related factor "illegal maneuver". (disregard of traffic control device).
The pre-event movement for V 2 coded stopped in traffic lane, category other vehicle encroachment from crossing street,across path. Critical reason not coded to this vehicle.
Associated factor for V 1 driver inexperience driving on learners permit.