This crash occurred at an intersection that had one-way traffic traveling south and one-way traffic traveling east. The intersection is controlled by traffic lights without pedestrian signals. The southbound lanes were level the eastbound lanes were sloped +6/122. The speed was posted at 56kmph (35mph). The roadway was dry concrete. It was a cloudy day.
Vehicle #1 a 2006 Chevrolet impala was traveling east. Vehicle #2 a 1994 Pontiac Grand Prix was traveling south at the end of a funeral procession. Vehicle #1 had just left the post office and had come to a red light at the intersection. As the driver waited for the light to change to green a funeral procession was traveling south. The last vehicle in the procession noted the light change and slowed so if any vehicle did not see the funeral going through the light the last vehicle could stop. As the driver of Vehicle #2 was watching traffic and Vehicle #1 pulled out into the intersection and could not stop. The front of Vehicle #2 contacted the left of Vehicle #1. The Vehicle #1 slid sideways for about 9ft. to final rest. Vehicle #2 came to final rest in the center of the intersection. Vehicle #1 was towed due to vehicle damage. Vehicle #2 was driven from the scene after it was cleared. Both drivers were checked out at the scene and released. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
Vehicle #1 a 2006 Chevrolet Impala was driven by a 56 year-old female that said she is in good health but takes a hormone for hormone replacement therapy. She wears corrective lenses for an astigmatism. She stated that she had gone to the post office on her lunch hour and was on her way back to work at the time of the crash. She had come to the intersection to a red light. She stated there were no vehicles to her left but there was a school bus to her right. She never saw the funeral coming across in front of her vehicle. The light turned green and she went across the intersection when she was contacted in the left front side of her vehicle. Her vehicle-rotated counter clockwise slightly to final rest in the intersection.
Vehicle #2 a 1994 Pontiac Grand Prix was driven by a 37 year-old female that said she is in fair health and had had back surgery in the past year. She is taking medications for pain relief. She wears corrective lenses for reading only. She stated she was the last vehicle in a funeral procession and as she came to the intersection the traffic light turned to red. She slowed because she could not see past a delivery truck that was in lane #3. As she came closer a vehicle pulled out into the intersection in front of her vehicle. She stated there was no time to break all she could do is steer left. She stated her final rest was in the center of the intersection.