The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a north/south U.S. Highway that had five lanes with two each direction and a center left turn only lane. There was no physical divider. The highway was straight and level with a speed limit of 64kph/40mph. A secondary arterial road intersected from the west. It had three lanes, one westbound, one right turn only (south), and one that was straight across into a condo community or left (north) turn. The secondary road was also straight and level with a speed limit of 48kph/30mph. Just to the south of the condo community entrance was a private business lot that was located on the east side of the highway also. The intersection was controlled by electronic traffic signals and there was no pedestrian crossing. Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight and dry on a weekday afternoon.
Vehicle #1 was a 1993 Mercury Cougar traveling east in the right lane on the arterial road. As it passed into the intersection instead of performing a standard right turn the driver attempted to cross all five lanes of the highway to get to the private lot on the east side of the highway. Vehicle #2 was a 1994 Chevrolet Cavalier traveling north in the right lane of the Highway when it was struck on the left side by the front of Vehicle #1. Vehicle #1 then rotated counterclockwise and came to rest facing northeast straddling both northbound lanes of the highway. Vehicle #2 ran partially over the right curb and came to rest also facing northeast just a few meters north of impact. Both Vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
Vehicle #1, was driven by a forty three year old female who was unlicensed at the time of the crash. It is unknown whether or not she was belted. She was uninjured in the crash. The driver admitted to taking several types of pills without prescriptions to the researcher but stated she “never does it right before she drives”.
Vehicle #2, was driven by a thirty eight year old belted female whose airbags did not deploy. She was transported to a local hospital for treatment of non-incapacitating injuries. The driver did refuse an interview after several attempts at contact.