The crash occurred in the westbound parking lane of a two-lane east/westbound residential street. There was a single lane for travel in either direction and there was a designated parking lane on either side of the street. This street was a straight, level, and bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). It was a clear weekend afternoon and the road was dry and free from any defects. Traffic flow was very light at the time of the crash.
V1, a 1997 Honda CRV compact utility vehicle with driver as the only occupant had just made a right turn into lane one of the east/westbound roadway and drove west for approximately one half of one block when V1 driver lost control. As soon as V1 became unstable it crossed the right parking lane line and struck V2, a legally parked and unoccupied four door 2002 BMW 5-series. After this impact V1 continued in a westward direction for 15 meters and rotated almost a full 90 degrees in a clockwise direction and then departed the roadway to the north. V1 then crossed the sidewalk and stuck a slightly raised residential lawn with the front of its undercarriage. Both V1 and V2 were disabled and later towed from the crash scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.
V1, the 1997 Honda CRV was driven by a 51-year old female and was transported directly from the crash scene to an emergency room due to injuries. At the emergency room a full interview was obtained and the driver reported that her vehicle had always functioned just fine but for some reason her front right tire started to wobble and then she lost control. She recalled striking V2, the parked vehicle, but stated that the next thing that she knew was that she was turning off her satellite radio because she felt embarrassed about the radio program that she was listening to and did not want the medics or police to learn that she listens to this popular radio program. V1 driver also reported that a police officer at the crash scene stated that her front right ball-joint might have failed. Upon inspection of all of the physical evidence and other crash related data it was concluded that there was not a vehicle failure but rather it was an unknown driver error that caused V1 to depart its lane to the right side and strike V2.