A three-vehicle daytime rear-end and rollover collision occurred heading south on an interstate highway. In the area of the crash, the highway has four lanes of travel, the first being an exit lane. The road is paved with concrete and is straight and downhill (approximate grade of -3%) in the immediate area of the crash. The speed limit for the road is 96 kmph (60 mph). At the time of the crash the sky was clear and the road was dry. Traffic ahead was starting to slow down.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Honda Accord sedan with only a driver, was headed south in lane two. Vehicle three (V3), a 1996 Chevrolet Corsica Sedan with a driver and a passenger, was headed south in lane two behind V1. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Honda CRV SUV with a driver and passenger, was also heading south in lane one, the exit only lane. Traffic ahead was slowing as V2 attempted to merge into lane two in front of V1. In the process of merging, the front of V1 struck and under rode the rear of V2. The front of V3 then struck the rear of V1. V2 rolled onto the right (passenger) side then onto the roof, coming to rest on the roof facing north. V1 and V2 came to rest in the traffic lanes south of the impact location. All vehicles were towed due to disabling damage, but none of the occupants were transported due to injury. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 was a 27-year-old male who reported no injuries from the crash. He stated that as traffic was slowing ahead in lane two, V2 was passing in the exit only lane, and cut into lane two in front of V1. This driver's description of pre-crash events differs from the scenario given by the driver of V2. However the physical evidence of the damage pattern to the vehicles indicates V2 was merging into lane two at impact with V1. The driver was attentive to the driving task but did not have time to react to the maneuver of V2.
The driver of V2 was a 37-year-old female who reported no injuries. She stated that she had slowed with traffic in lane two, then looked in the rear-view mirror and noticed that V1 was likely to rear-end her. To avoid the collision, she tried to change to lane one but was struck before she completed the maneuver. Her description does not match the damage pattern to the vehicles. This driver was inattentive to the driving task due to the conversation with the passenger. She was also focused on an external person as she tried to merge into lane two in front of V1.
The driver of V3 was a 39-year-old female who reported no injuries. Although a formal interview was not obtained, the driver of V3 was following V1 on this trip. V3 was not involved in the first harmful event, and received no critical precrash event coding. An associated factor for this driver is following too closely.