This two-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of two urban two-lane undivided bituminous roads. It was dark, but both roads were lit with streetlamps. The southbound approach leg to the intersection had a pre-crash grade of +8% and a speed limit 40 kmph (25 mph). This road also had a stop sign, which had been missing for two days, according to a resident the researcher spoke to. The eastbound approach leg to the intersection had a level road with a speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). The initial area of impact in the intersection is level, and all approach roads are straight. This crash occurred on a clear weekend night in the late evening hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions. Both cars were towed due to damage. EMS was dispatched to the scene, but nobody was transported. Both drivers spoke only Spanish, and neither was licensed to drive. The NASS interviewer received assistance in interpreting from family and friends of the drivers at the scene.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Chrysler Town & Country minivan with a family of five occupants, was southbound in lane one. The 36-year-old male driver was not conversing, and was not taking any medications. The driver of V1 has been driving for 11 years but did not possess a driver's license. He was not the owner of the vehicle. For this trip they had just dropped a friend off at his house and were on their way home. It was the driver's first time on the road, and he did not know that there was supposed to be a stop sign, so he continued through the intersection. As both vehicle traveled through the intersection the front end of V1 impacted with the left side of vehicle two (V2). After the first impact the vehicle's rotated and V1's right side side-slapped with V2's left side. V1 continued to rotate counter-clockwise and came to final rest on the curb in the northeast corner of the intersection, facing north against a bush. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Chevy Tahoe 4-door, was driven by a 20 year-old male. He was taking no medications and familiar with the roadway. V2 was eastbound in lane one with the intention to go straight. V2 driver did not see V1 until it was well into the intersection, and it was too late to make any avoidance actions. After the first two impacts, the truck drove off the southeast corner of the intersection into a yard. V2 continued east in the grass along the sidewalk went down a small hill and came to final rest approximately 24 meters (75 feet) east of the intersection. V2 was facing east located partially in the roadway at final rest.