This crash occurred on a two-way, three lane roadway. The roadway was straight and level consisting of dry asphalt, and there was no adverse weather. The posted speed limit was 80 kmph (50 mph). A middle lane that was to allow traffic from both sides to turn left divided the north and southbound travel lanes and began approximately 50 m before V1 first left the roadway to the right.
V1 a 1995 Pontiac Grand Am driven by a 65 year-old male, was traveling northbound, when he left the roadway to the right, and then reentered the roadway crossing all three-travel lanes in a counter-clockwise rotation. The vehicle then left the roadway on the left side. At this point tripping force was being applied to the right side tires, causing the vehicle to roll to the right. The vehicle rolled approximately 1 and a half complete rolls (6 quarter turns) and then came to final rest on its roof on top of a porch of a one-story dwelling. The driver of the vehicle was removed from the overturned vehicle by EMS and Fire Department personnel and transported directly to a hospital facility, where he was later pronounced dead. The vehicle was towed from the scene due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1.
At the scene a police department personnel told me what he had witnessed. The police officer stated that he had been following this vehicle for about two miles and had the intention of pulling this vehicle over as soon as they caught him. They stated that this vehicle was been traveling at high speeds and they were trying to catch up with him when the crash happened. The police officer stated he witnessed this vehicle go off the road to the right they shoot back to the left, and then begin to roll.
Upon interviewing the driver's girlfriend I discovered that the driver of this vehicle was returning home from his first day of work as a heavy truck driver after a week off. She stated that, that day the driver had been sent on a long pick-up, and had been on the road for 12 hours. She stated that he had spent 5 hours on the road, taken two hours off, then returned home another 5 hour trip. The interviewee stated that the driver had made this trip every couple of weeks, and was used to the drive. The interviewee also stated that the driver had been a heavy truck driver for more than 40 years.
Some associative factors for this crash could be the driver's focus might have been on the police car behind him, this causing him to decide to travel factor than posted limits. The driver was most likely fatigued from driving such a long distance that day. The police also suspected that alcohol was a factor in the crash, but BAC test results were not available at the time of investigation.