This four-vehicle crash took place in the mid-evening hours on a weekend on a north/southbound expressway with a posted speed limit of 80 kmph (50 mph). The weather was clear, the asphalt surface was dry, and the roadway was level. This section of roadway was divided by a concrete median barrier with two lanes in each direction. Within approximately 500 ft. of the crash location the posted speed limit changes from 50 mph to 40 mph (64 kmph), which frequently causes congestion in this area of roadway. All four involved vehicle were traveling in the second northbound lane.
V2, a 1995 Pontiac Transport minivan, was driven by a 46-year old male. A complete interview was obtained from this driver. The driver of V2 stated that he was driving his parents home from a family gathering and before he knew it, the vehicles in front of him were all braking very hard and coming to an almost complete stop. He explained that he immediately applied his brakes without lock-up and thought that he was going to have enough room in front of him to avoid hitting the rear of V1. He announced to his passengers to brace and to be prepared for what he was certain was going to be a close call at the very minimum. At the same time he was tracking the vehicle directly behind him (via his rearview mirror) stating that he was more concerned that his vehicle was about to be struck by the front of V3, which was directly behind him. As the crash unfolded, V2 struck the rear of V1 making this contact the first of four events in this crash. V1, an unknown sedan-type vehicle fled the scene after being contacted by the front of V1. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.
V3, a 1993 Ford Escort, was driven by a 60-year old male. The driver of V3 was later contacted for an interview and was unwilling to be a part of the study due to pending litigation concerning this crash. Answers to a very few questions were still obtained. Regarding the description of the traffic conditions given by the driver of V2, the driver of V3 described the same situation. He stated that he was going along with the flow of traffic when all of a sudden he noticed that everyone was braking. He stated that he immediately began to brake in hopes of avoiding striking the rear of V2. However, the front left of V3 came into contact with the rear of V2. This was the second event in this crash. The driver of V3 claimed that he had no internal or external distractions.
Upon V3 striking the rear of V2, V4, a 2001 Lincoln Navigator traveling directly behind V3, struck the right rear and center of V3 with its front right making this contact the third event of this crash. This caused V3 to then be pushed forward along the side of V2 where V3 came to its final rest against V2. At final rest, the driver of V2 stated that the right side of his vehicle was actually contacting the left side of V3 along the entire length of each of the vehicles. This was the fourth and final event in this crash.
No Critical Pre-Crash Event and no Critical Reason were coded to V3 because it was not involved in the first harmful event (the impact between V1 and V2). Two associated coded to this driver were following too closely and road congestion.
Emergency medical services were dispatched to the scene but all parties claimed not to be injured. All three vehicles were towed from the scene but only V3 was towed due to vehicle damage. While both drivers who were interviewed stated that they only applied the brakes in their avoidance efforts, it can be seen from the damage patterns that most likely steering inputs to the right were part of their avoidance maneuvers as well.