A two vehicle pre-dawn collision occurred on a Wednesday morning. The collision occurred at a four-leg intersection comprised by a north/south roadway and an east/west roadway. The north/south roadway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of four lanes. The east/west roadway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of two lanes. The north/south roadway is designated a 56 kph (35 mph) zone. The east/west roadway is designated a 40 kph (25 mph) zone. The east/west roadway is controlled by a stop sign.
Vehicle one (V1) is a 2005 Honda Civic, four-door sedan, traveling westbound in the number one lane. Vehicle two (V2) is a 1996 Dodge Avenger, two-door coupe, traveling northbound in the number one lane. As V1 turned left, the front plane of V2 contacted its front plane. V1 rotated clockwise until coming to rest facing northwest blocking the northbound number one and two lanes. V2 came to rest facing northeast blocking the northbound number two lane. The final rest positions were based on on-scene observers and driver statements. V1 suffered major damage, but fled the scene after the collision. V1 was found approximately a block north of the collision. V2 suffered major damage and was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 is a 21-year-old male commuting to work. The driver was listening to radio as he drove. The driver was approximately 32 kilometers (20 mi) from work. He was scheduled to arrive within 15 minutes of the collision time. The driver was wearing eyeglasses for a myopic condition. The driver played basketball for one hour on the Sunday before the collision. He has five years of driving experience. The driver stated that he could not see V2's approach because of the vehicles parked along the east curb.
The driver of V2 is an unlicensed 17-year-old male commuting to work. The driver started a new job on the Friday before the collision. He also attends night school once a week, but only to pick up and deliver assignments. It is a course for students that are missing High School credits. He was wearing eyeglasses for a myopic condition. He has only been driving for a year. The vehicle was purchased approximately a week before the collision. The previous owner was involved in a collision and removed the airbags. The driver stated he observed V1 fail to stop for the stop sign. The driver swerved left into the northbound number two lane as he applied the brakes. Unfortunately, he was unable to avoid a collision.