This two-vehicle crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a three-lane roadway divided by a raised median at the intersection. There were two southbound lanes and one northbound lane. There were shoulder areas on the right side of all the travel lanes sometimes these shoulders were used as curbside parking. There was signalized traffic control devices controlling all directions of travel. The roads surfaces were bituminous dry and straight and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit for all directions of travel was 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred on a weekend during the early evening dark hours: only streetlights illuminated the roadway. The roadway was free of any defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.
Vehicle one, 1999 Mercury Sable 4 door sedan, was traveling northbound through the intersection when it attempted to make a left turn westbound and crossed over into the southbound lane and contacted with its front the front of vehicle two, a 1996 International Bus, traveling southbound in lane one. After the initial impact, vehicle one traveled a few feet rotated slightly counter-clockwise and came to final rest continuing to face northward resting front bumper to front bumper with vehicle two. Vehicle two, after the initial impact, moved an inch backwards where it came to final rest continuing to face southward. Vehicle one was eventually towed from the scene due to severe damages. Vehicle two was not towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
The driver of vehicle one, a 21-year old female, said she was traveling southbound approaching the intersection and entered the left lane turn style. She stated that she proceeded with her turn and somehow encroached into the southbound lane, already occupied by vehicle two, and crashed head-on. The researcher attempted to ask the driver of vehicle one several questions, but the driver would slip in and out of consciousness. The driver was unable to concentrate or stay focused. Considering that she was found unconscious and had been using drugs it is more likely that she blacked out and drove straight into vehicle two. On later dates, several telephone attempts were made to contact the driver, however, to no avail. The driver was transported to the hospital by medics for drug and alcohol evaluation. There was a high suspicion of her drug usage. The police found several bags of control substances inside her vehicle. The driver of vehicle one was transported to the hospital by medics with non-threatening injuries resulting from the crash.
The driver of vehicle two, a 36-year old male, said he was traveling southbound on his regular evening bus route uneventful up to now. It was dark nothing special about the evening. As he approached the intersection, he saw vehicle one approaching form the opposite direction. He believes she was attempting to make a left turn and somehow over-shot her turn. He thought she would realize she was in the wrong lane and stop. But she continued traveling and contacted the front of his vehicle. I couldn't see if the driver was alert or looking somewhere else or sleeping. The police said they found some drugs in her vehicle and that she was very incoherent. I travel on this roadway daily and I'm very familiar with it. It's the other drivers that concern me. The driver of vehicle two complained of pain but said he would later take himself to the hospital to be checked out. He continued with his bus route. There were no passengers on the bus.