This three-vehicle crash occurred at a four-leg intersection. The east side of intersection has eight-lanes and curves to the right. It has a left and a right turn lane and is dry and level. The west side of the intersection has seven-lanes, dry, level and has a left turn lane. The north side of the intersection is six-lanes, dry, level and has two left turn lanes and a right turn lane. The north side also curves right. The south side of the intersection is four-lanes with a left turn lane and two northbound lanes. The south side also curves right. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light signal that was working properly at the time. All four legs are comprised of asphalt. The east/west and north/south roadways are designated 56 kph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one, a 2000 Honda Accord was westbound in the fourth lane, a left turn lane. Vehicle two, a 2002 Honda Accord was eastbound in the fourth lane. Vehicle three, a 2004 Lexus ES 330 was stopped in the first lane southbound. As vehicle one made a left turn its right plane was impacted by vehicle two's front plane. Vehicle two rotated clockwise and headed north where it came to rest in the intersection. Vehicle one rotated counterclockwise and headed in a northwesterly direction when its front plane impacted the right plane of vehicle three. Vehicle one came to rest facing northwest in the northwest crosswalk area. Vehicle three came to rest at impact facing southwest. All vehicles were towed with major damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of vehicle one, a seventy-four year old female was on her way to the store from the post office. This driver had been driving for about twenty-five minutes at the time of the crash. This driver has fifty-five years of driving experience. The driver takes Atenolol, Lovastatin, Fosamax and vitamins with calcium. The driver has high blood pressure. She wears her prescription glasses when she drives and has astigmatism. She had one passenger in her vehicle. She said she just followed the car in front of her when the light turned yellow and that she saw the vehicles in the westbound 2 and 3 lanes were stopping. This driver then looked and proceeded. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road several times a month.
The driver of vehicle two, a twenty-six year old male was on his way to the bank at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about ten minutes at the time of the crash. This driver has seven years of driving experience. This driver stated that he accelerated when the light turned yellow. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.
The driver of vehicle three, a fifty-year-old female was heading to a yoga class from home. This driver had been driving for about fifteen minutes at the time of the crash. This driver takes vitamins daily. This driver stated that after the first impact she saw vehicle one coming towards her and she froze and could not do anything to avoid the crash. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road several times a month.