This crash occurred in the evening of a weekday in the intersection of an east/west four-lane urban arterial roadway and a two-lane side street. Traffic approaching the intersection from the east had two through lanes; a left turn lane, and positive 5% grade. Traffic counts indicate east of the intersection the four-lane road carried 11,391 vehicles per day. On the arterial coming from the west it was level with one thru lane, a left turn lane, and right turn lane to the intersecting side street. The intersection was controlled by traffic signals. The posted speed limit was 56kmph (35mph). Conditions were dark with streetlights and wet with moderate to heavy rain falling.
V1, a 1997 Ford Explorer, was stopped facing west at the intersection waiting to turn left. V2, a 2003 Nissan Sentra, was eastbound approaching the intersection in the lane one. In the eastbound lanes, lane one becomes a right turn only lane as it approaches the intersection so V2 switched to the lane two, which continues straight through the intersection. As V1 began its turn its right side was struck by V2 as it crossed the intersection. V1 came to rest facing south on the side street. V2 rotated 50 degrees clockwise and came to rest in the intersection near impact. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1 was driven by a belted 36 year-old female who claimed to be in good health despite suffering from Restless Leg Syndrome, which she treated with medication. The driver was wearing her prescription lenses that corrected a myopic (near-sighted) condition. She was not injured in the crash. The driver stated that the other vehicle (V2) was in the right turn lane and must have switched to the thru lane after she initiated the left turn. She stated she had the solid green light with no turn arrow. Police charged her with failure to yield.
V2 was operated by a belted 59 year-old female who claimed to be in good health despite suffering from sleep apnea and narcolepsy, which go untreated. She was transported to an area hospital with minor injuries. She stated she saw V1, but could not determine if it was going straight or turning. Once she realized it was turning it was too late and they collided.