This three-vehicle crash took place on a clear, early weekday afternoon in an intersection where the meeting streets allowed for vehicle travel from six different directions. The portion of the intersection on which the crash occurred was the intersecting paths of a street that ran north and south, and a street that ran east and west. The north/southbound street had a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph), and was physically undivided with one lane for travel in each direction. The east/westbound street was similar in that it had two lanes for travel in each direction and was undivided, but its posted speed limit was 48 kmph (30mph). All streets were level and straight, and the asphalt surfaces were free of any defect. This intersection was controlled by traffic lights, stop signs, pedestrian crossing signs, "school zone" signs, and flashing 24 kmph (15 mph) speed limit signals for when the local school receives and dismisses its students. The traffic lights were all functioning properly.
It must be noted that the PAR contained three inaccuracies. They were: 1. The PAR stated that the crash occurred 47 minutes later than when it actually occurred. 2. The PAR stated that the speed limit was 24 kmph (15 mph) at the time of the crash, when in fact at the time of the crash the 24 kmph (15 mph) speed limit was not yet in effect. 3. The PAR stated that V2 (V1 in the PAR) was not towed due to damage, when in fact V2 was towed directly from the scene due to disabling damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
Vehicle 1 (V1 - designated as V2 in the PAR), a 2006 Chevrolet Equinox driven by a 42-year old female, was traveling east in lane one. According to this driver, she had taken the day off for a routine doctor's appointment and was on her way to visit a friend. She stated that she does not frequently travel this roadway and but also stated that she did not feel uncomfortable due to the many intersecting streets. Driver explained that she went through the intersection and, "... didn't even see the other car before it hit me." (verbatim) She stated that she had the green light and therefore, "There was no reason to look, I had the green light." (verbatim) As her vehicle entered the intersection the front of her vehicle struck the left side of Vehicle 2 (V2 - designated V1 in the PAR), who had just entered the intersection and was heading north. V1 proceeded through the intersection and came to its final rest after it crossed the oncoming westbound lane and stopped in the left shoulder lane.
V2, a 1999 Dodge Stratus driven by a 42-year-old male was traveling northbound in lane one. The driver of V2 refused to participate in this survey but stated to the police that it was his vehicle that had the green light. There wasn't any physical evidence present to show that either driver applied their brakes or took any avoidance maneuvers. (This is consistent with the statements that the driver or V1 made during the interview.) The driver of V2 was operating his unregistered vehicle with a suspended license and without insurance. Driver was issued citations for all three violations. Upon being struck on its left side by the front of V1, V2 was pushed in an eastward direction through the intersection by V1. V2 then departed the street on its right side, struck and knocked over a traffic light with its right side, which caused it to rotate almost 180 degrees. V2 continued to travel backwards with just enough force to knock over another traffic light with its rear. At final rest V1 was entirely on the curb, had rotated almost 180 degrees and its rear was sitting on top of the base of the second downed traffic lights.
Vehicle 3, a 2002 Dodge Durango was illegally parked in the right shoulder lane on one of the intersecting streets that was also considered to run east and west. The owner of V3, a teacher at the nearby school, was inside teaching when this crash occurred. She stated that due to the number of vehicles that park near the school each weekday, the parking regulations are not enforced. V3 became involved in this crash only after V2 knocked down the second traffic light with its rear causing it to fall over and strike the rear or V3 shattering its rear window and causing damage to the rear of the vehicle. No pre-crash assessment was given to this vehicle because it was not in transport and was not involved in the first harmful event.
Emergency medical services were dispatched to the scene and both drivers of V1 and V2 were transported directly to an emergency room. The driver of V1 complained of nausea and chest pain. Driver sustained soreness in the area where her shoulder strap of the seat belt crossed her right side. Driver of V1 spent approximately 3 hours in the emergency room. The occupant of V1 claimed not to be injured. The driver of V2 complained of severe back pain though the CT scan of the driver's spine showed nothing more than what was presumed to irregularities that were due to degenerative disc disease. CT scans of the head were normal. Driver of V2 was released from the hospital after also spending approximately 3 hours in the emergency room. Driver sustained a possible fracture to his tenth rib on his right side. Driver refused to give a urine sample for routine lab work.