This two-vehicle crash occurred in the late evening of a weekday in the middle of a 4-way intersection. The intersection consisted of two multi-lane divided roadways controlled by properly functioning traffic signals with protected left-turn arrows for each direction. The main thoroughfare is a north/south divided highway that expands to six lanes in each direction at the intersection to include turn only lanes. The bituminous roadway is dry, straight, and level with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (55 mph). The traffic at the intersection was heavier than normal due to the holiday season. The roadway was dark and unlit but there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.
V1, a 2007 Pontiac G6 with two occupants, was southbound in lane four approaching the intersection where intended to go straight. V2, a 2006 Hyundai Sonata with two occupants, was stopped facing north in lane six (a designated left turn lane) waiting for a green arrow so it could turn left. As V1 approached the intersection he failed to stop when the light turned red for him. The green arrow appeared for V2 and it began its left turn maneuver. Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the front of V1 struck the right rear side of V2. V1 left approximately 10 meters of skid marks on the road, indicating he tried to avoid the crash. Both vehicles were towed from the scene but only V1 was towed due to disabling damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1 and 89 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a 23-year-old male was uninjured in the crash. He was traveling to his girlfriend's house this evening when he was involved in this crash. His driver license is suspended for failing to pay past traffic violations and for failing to appear in court. The vehicle he was driving was a rental car that his mother reserved for the week. As he was driving south toward the intersection, he said the signal was yellow but he cannot recall what color it was when he entered the intersection. As soon as he entered the intersection, he realized that V2 was turning left in front of him so he pressed his foot on the brake pedal but could not avoid the crash. It was the first time he ever drove a vehicle equipped with ABS and he said he could feel the pedal "chatter" as he applied pressure to the brake.
The driver of V2, a 42-year-old female, suffered minor injuries and was transported for treatment and observation. She stated she was traveling with her daughter to a coffee shop this evening when they were struck in the right side while making a left turn at this intersection. She was stopped at this intersection for the red light and waited an entire cycle before her arrow turned green so she could begin her left turn. As she entered the intersection, there were also two southbound lanes of traffic making left turns and she last remembered was seeing their headlights before the crash. She did not have a chance to avoid the collision, as she never saw the other car until the crash happened.