This single vehicle roll over crash occurred mid-morning during daylight hours on a two way, hard packed dirt roadway. This was a straight level, roadway with no posted speed limit. the road was dry and the sky was clear. There was no other traffic in the area at the time of the crash.
Vehicle one (V-1) a 1992 Ford F-150 pick-up driven by a 16 year-old female with two passengers was traveling at a high rate of speed and passing a farm tractor the driver lost control and the vehicle began to rotate counterclockwise. The driver was an inexperienced, 16 year old female. There were two male passengers in the front seat also. One male passenger told her not to hit the brakes, but she did. The vehicle was about to depart the left side of the roadway where there was a small elevation drop, a earthen berm and a drop into a cultivated field of wheat. The driver hit the brakes, steered right as the vehicle hit and went over the berm which caused a change of rotation from counterclockwise to clockwise. The vehicle entered the field, tripped and overturned a total of four quarter turns. V-1 came to final rest on the wheels facing generally south. The three occupants were totally ejected during the rollover. They were transported to a local hospital with serious injuries. V-1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
The driver stated that she was traveling eastbound on the road and the occupants were talking. She then looked to her right and started talking to the passengers. She said that when she looked away, the vehicle began to fish tail. She said that she steered to the left and then to the right and the car started to spin. She said that she steered to the right just as the car exited the left side of the roadway. The car began to roll. She said that she was traveling about 72-80 KPH (45-50 MPH) when she lost control of the car. She also said that she was familiar with the roadway she was on when the car began to roll.
The pre-event movement for V 1 coded passing or overtaking another vehicle, category this vehicle loss of control due to poor road conditions (dirt,gravel). Critical reason driver related factor "aggressive driving behavior".
Associated factors, speeding and inexperienced driver.