This three-vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane asphalt constructed roadway. This roadway is in a rural setting with various curves and grades. The posted speed limit for this roadway is 89 kmph (55 mph) with a warning sign advisory speed of 80 kmph (50 mph) for eastbound traffic. This road has narrow shoulders and no emergency pull off lane. The roadway curves right in the eastbound direction of travel. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Ford Taurus was eastbound in the first lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Ford F-150 pickup was westbound in the first lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 1994 Ford F350 pickup was eastbound several meters behind V1. V1 crossed the centerline and the front of V1 impacted the left rear tire of V2. V2 then crossed the centerline and the front of V2 impacted the front of V3. V1 came to rest facing east on the westbound shoulder. V2 and V3 came to rest in the eastbound lanes. All three vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1 and 89 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a forty-seven year old female was returning home from a trip out of state. This driver landed at the airport and began driving home. She had been driving for about one hour and twenty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver was taking Tarka and Levothroid as medications. This driver indicated that V2 crossed the centerline but evidence indicates that this vehicle (V1) crossed the centerline. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road several times a month.
The driver of V2, a thirty-four year old female does not remember much of the crash. This driver was coming from a neighboring city where she had been shopping. It is unknown how long this driver had been driving on this trip. This driver had been awake for over nine hours at the time of the crash. According to medical records this driver was taking a Multivitamin, Vitamin E, Vitamin B, an Acne Medication and a stool softener. Also according to medical records this driver had a BAC of 0. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.
The driver of V3, a forty-nine year-old male was not interviewed. Per medical records this driver was not taking any medications.
V3 was not involved in first harmful event and the critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.