This two-vehicle intersection related rear end collision occurred during daylight hours on a two-way, two-lane, undivided, straight, and bituminous roadway with a -8% grade controlled by a stop sign. Posted speed limit was 48 kmph (30 mph) with no adverse weather conditions present.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1987 Ford Econoline van loaded with approximately 340-kilograms (750-pounds) of household items and occupied by a unrestrained 33-year-old male driver, unrestrained female front passenger, and 4 unrestrained children ages 2 to 8 seated in two middle row seats, was traveling east in lane one with the intention of going straight. V1 driver had just loaded the vehicle at, and departed from, a self-storage facility and was headed to a new residence. The driver of V1 was familiar with the roadway, but was engaged in conversation with the front passenger and possibly further distracted by children as he drove down the road and approached the stop sigh controlled intersection. As V1 approached the intersection, V 1 driver noticed vehicle two (V2) stop at the stop sign and begin to move forward, and once again stop. Driver assumed V 2 driver was going to continue forward and failed to apply braking sooner. V 1 left 19-meters (62-feet) of skids marks before contacting the rear of V 2 with the front bumper. V 1 right rear tire had only 2 mm of tread depth and all other tires had 3 mm of tread. V 1 rolled to final rest in southwest corner of intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V 2, a 1981 Ford F-150 pickup occupied by a restrained 17-year-old male driver, was traveling east in lane one with the intention of going straight. V 2 driver had just left his place of employment and was on his way to pick up his brother. V 2 driver, who rarely travels this roadway, was not sure if he was stopped or moving forward at the time of impact. Witness statement placed V 2 in motion. Nonetheless, V 2 driver stopped at the stop sign and then proceeded forward when impact occurred. V 2 came to rest across the intersection in lane one. V 2 driver was transported to a local medical facility. V 1 was towed from the scene; V 2 was driven from the scene.