The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a two-lane roadway divided by a center concrete median barrier. There were two eastbound and two westbound lanes. The roadway was straight with a partially milled and unleveled south shoulder, with an approach sign stating no shoulder ahead. The roadway surface of the eastbound travel lanes was bituminous with a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). It was early afternoon on a weekend day and the road was dry and the sky was clear. The traffic flow was steady until the crash occurred, which caused an eastbound traffic backlog.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 GMC Sierra C3500 pickup, was traveling eastbound in lane one. For an unknown reason, V1 drifted off the edge of the road to the right onto the uneven shoulder. The slight drop-off must have alerted the driver to the drift and the driver jerked the wheel sharply to the left to bring the vehicle back onto the roadway. This sharp steering action caused V1 to skid in a counterclockwise direction across both lanes of travel and V1 then impacted the concrete median barrier. V1 partially mounted the barrier and then bounced down while rotating in a clockwise direction. V1 then rolled over onto its left side. V1 slid to an uncontrolled final rest on its driver's side facing in a southwesterly direction, blocking lane two and part of lane one. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1.
The driver of V1, a 19-year-old female, sustained no injuries in the crash. There was a right front seat passenger present in the vehicle when the crash occurred, who also sustained no injuries. An interview of the driver was obtained on-scene. The driver reported that she was traveling eastbound when she came up on the uneven roadway. She said she was doing 55 mph. She started to slow down the truck and it started to fishtail, she lost control and headed towards the center wall. She hit the wall and the truck went up the wall and rolled over and she and her passenger climbed out of the truck.
Note: The police report for this case is for a non-reportable investigation. This crash was reportable at the time of occurrence; the vehicle was not drivable after the crash and was towed from the scene. The office manager for the Turnpike Authority Tow Service informed the researcher that the wrecker from the Turnpike Tow Services remove only vehicles that are not drivable. In the image section of this case the up-right photos of V1 were taken at the tow yard.