This two-vehicle crash occurred on a straight, curbed median-divided roadway near a four-legged intersection. The eastbound lanes of this roadway have a seven percent uphill grade and consist of two through lanes and a left turn lane approaching the intersection. The intersecting roadway connects business access roads to the east/west roadway. The northbound approach is a two-lane roadway with an eight percent downhill grade and is controlled by a stop sign. The speed limit on these roadways is 72 kmph (45 mph). It was dark with street lights on at the time of the crash and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a Kawasaki 636 cc motorcycle, was eastbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Ford Taurus, was stopped northbound at the intersection. V2 turned right onto the east/west roadway, entering lane two. The front of V1 struck the left side of V2. As the vehicles continued eastbound, the front of V1 again struck the left side of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a thirty-two-year-old male, was traveling with a twenty-two-year-old female. They had just left a bar and were on their way to a friend's house. This driver's police-reported blood alcohol test result was 0.06. He works ten-to-eleven hours every day, seven days a week. He was healthy, comfortable with his vehicle and passenger and drives this route daily. This driver stated that he was traveling over the speed limit because he had been racing another vehicle earlier. He noticed V2 entering his path and applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid the crash.
The driver of V2, a fifty-five-year-old female, was traveling with her eighty-five-year-old mother. They had just left a restaurant and were on their way home. This driver has diabetes, high blood pressure and a hormone condition, and takes the medications Actos, Allegra, Diovan, Humalog, Premarin, Prevacid, Zocor and vitamins. This driver was well rested and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. She drives this route weekly. This driver stated that she did not see V1 and moved into lane two after she made the turn in anticipation of making a subsequent left turn.