This two-vehicle mid-morning crash occurred in a four-way intersection that is controlled by stop signs for west and eastbound traffic and not controlled for north and southbound traffic. The north/south roadway consists of one travel lane in each direction divided by a 2-way left turn lane and has a posted speed limit of 52 kmph (35 mph). The cross street consists of two eastbound lanes and one westbound lane. At the east end of the intersection is a dedicated right turn lane and a continuous left turn lane. The posted speed limit for the east/west roadway is 40 kmph (25 mph). Both roadways were dry and are straight, level, and of bituminous construction. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and there were no sight line restrictions or road defects in the crash area.
Vehicle one (V 1), a dark green 2001 Toyota Corolla 4 door, was westbound stopped at a stop sign intending to turn left. Vehicle two (V 2), a gray 1998 Ford Crown Victoria 4 door was southbound approaching the intersection intending to go straight. V 1 entered the intersection turning left and V 2 entered the intersection going straight and the right side of V 1 and the front of V 2 collided. The impact caused V 1 to rotate counterclockwise and the right side of V 1 and the left side of V 2 side slapped. V 1 came to rest in the southbound lane facing generally southwest and V 2 was redirected on a southwest trajectory and came to rest at the southwest corner of the intersection facing generally southwest. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.
The V1 driver, a 16-year old male said that he had been stopped at the stop sign for more than 30 seconds and that he looked both ways, but did not notice any cars approaching. He then began to turn left and was looking at his intended turn left when V 2 struck him on the right side. He added that he was out looking for a job, which may have occupied his thoughts. V 1 was towed due to damage.
The V 2 driver, a 58-year old male, stated that he was southbound in the #1 lane at about 48-56 kmph (30-35 mph) and noticed V 1 stopped westbound at the intersection. He said that as he approached the intersection, V 1 made a left turn in front of him and that he braked to avoid the crash but was not successful. He added that it appeared that V 1 was trying to beat him through the intersection. He also said that the V 1 driver was looking to his left (south and away from V 2) as he was turning left. V 2 was towed due to damage.