The crash occurred in the westbound lane of an east/west state highway that was straight and level. It was a two-way, two-lane road that if traveling west then spread to a third center lane that was a left turn only lane for westbound travel. The speed limit was 89kph (55mph) and conditions were daylight and dry in the early afternoon on a weekday.
Vehicle #1 was a 1995 Ford Escort station wagon that was traveling west on the road when it came upon traffic stopped in the westbound lane. It began to brake and skid longitudinally into the back of Vehicle #2, a 1990 Buick Century Custom that was already stopped. Vehicle #2 was pushed by the first impact into Vehicle # 3, a 1999 Dodge Ram pickup, which was also stopped. Vehicle #2's front contacted Vehicle #3's rear. Vehicle #1 came to rest facing northwest in the westbound lane. Vehicles #2 and #3 stayed facing west at final rest. Vehicles #1 and #2 were towed from the scene and Vehicle #3 was driven away. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
Vehicle #1 was driven by a forty one year old, belted male who was uninjured in the crash. The driver stated that he was heading back to the job from lunch and the traffic was moving along pretty good. He glanced to his left to look at a new house going up kind of professional interest, and when he looked forward again everyone was stopped. He got on his brakes pretty hard and tried to swerve away to his left but couldn't steer while he was skidding. He hit V2 pretty hard. The driver was not licensed and was taken into police custody on scene.
Vehicle #2 was driven by a thirty eight year old belted male who, although sustaining some possible injuries in the crash, was not transported for treatment. The driver stated that he ws sitting there stopped in traffic and V1 hit him from behind. He was also arrested on scene for driving on a suspended license.
Vehicle #3 was driven by a thirty year old, belted male, who was uninjured in the crash. He stated that he was stopped with everyone else in his lane and heard the crash behind him. Then he got bumped from behind.
Vehicle #3 was not involved in the 1st harmful event and the critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. The traffic flow interruption was the only associated factor coded to this vehicle.