This crash occurred off the roadway of a north/south two-lane, two-way rural, level road on a weekday morning. The roadway curved left and then straightened out. There was a -1 percent super-elevation for northbound traffic. No shoulders were present on either side. Conditions were daylight and dry; the posted speed limit was 72 kmph (45 mph). Traffic flow was minimal at the time.
Vehicle 1, a 2002 Hyundai Sonata four-door with two occupants, was traveling north above the posted speed limit. V1 negotiated a left curve, but when the curve straightened, V1 crossed the double yellow line into the path of an oncoming (non-contact) vehicle. V1 then overcorrected by steering hard to the right, causing the vehicle to rotate and yaw clockwise, leaving 31 meters (102 feet) in yaw marks. V1 then departed the roadway to the right still in a clockwise yaw, left side leading, and contacted a small shrub (event 1) with the right front. V1 then hit a 1.4-meter x 1.5-meter brick well house (event 2) with its left front, causing brick to scatter and strike two parked vehicles. V1 then went on to contact 2 small shrubs (event 3 & 4), with its right side. V1's tires then tripped on a bituminous driveway, causing it to roll one-quarter turn. V1 traveled approximately 7 meters on its left side before contacting a 90-cm diameter tree with its top. V1 rotated counterclockwise approximately 145 degrees before coming to final rest facing northwest on its wheels. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.
A 22-year-old male, who was a full-time student at home for a break, drove V1. For an unknown reason, the driver of V1 and his best friend were driving northbound that morning. A witness saw the driver of V1 stop in the roadway and pick up the passenger. He then stopped at a stop sign, squealed tires and proceeded straight at a high rate of speed. Another witness reports the driver coming past her at a high rate of speed. As she looked in her rear view mirror she saw V1 depart the roadway to the right, strike a brick well house and roll over before contacting a tree. No other information was available due to the driver and passenger both having serious head injuries and surrogates not being able to provide much detailed information about the driver.