This two-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of a two-way intersection. There was one southbound and one westbound single travel lanes. There was curbside parking permitted on the right side of the southbound travel lane, V1's direction of travel, and curbside parking permitted on both the right and left sides of the westbound travel lanes, V2's direction of travel. A stop sign on the corner controlled the southbound directions of travel. There was no traffic controlling devices for the westbound direction of travel. The asphalt roadways were dry, level, and straight and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit was 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred on a weekend during the early afternoon daylight hours. The roadway was free of any defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.
Vehicle one, 1998 Honda Civic 2-door sedan, was traveling southbound on the single travel lane roadway through the intersection when it contacted with its front the right side of vehicle two, a 2006 Dodge Charger 4-door sedan (impact #1), traveling westbound on the single intersecting travel lane. After the initial impact, vehicle one rotated clockwise and contacted, with its left rear, the right rear of vehicle two (impact #2). Vehicle two, after the initial impact, rotated counter clockwise, contacted V1 again, as mentioned, traveling several feet and came to final rest facing southward. Vehicle one final rest position was facing westward. Vehicle one's damages were disabling and it was later towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
The driver of vehicle one, a 20-year old female, said she was traveling southbound conversing with her three passengers while on lunch break. As she was driving on the one-way street approaching the intersection, nothing seemed to be particularly different. She travels on the road daily. She saw the stop sign and was unsure if she had stopped. However, there were two big trucks parked on the northeast corner of the westbound roadway preventing her from seeing any vehicles traveling westbound. So, as she proceeded through the intersection she hit the right side of vehicle two traveling westbound through the intersection. She said, she slammed on her brakes, but it was too late. She travels on the roadway daily. Her travel speed was approximately 56 kmph (35 mph). When asked how she stopped then afterwards accelerated to 35 mph? She said she wasn't sure. She's been a licensed driver for only three years but said she considers herself a very good driver. Neither she nor any of her passengers were injured.
The driver of vehicle two, a 23-year old male, said he was traveling westbound on the single lane roadway and didn't pay much attention to the upcoming intersection. He travels on the roadway daily and knows there's no stop sign for his direction of travel, so, as he normally does, he continued traveling through the intersection and his vehicle was struck on the right side by vehicle one traveling southbound. He said he's sure vehicle one never stopped at the intersection because V1 came out of the intersecting street too fast. He said, his travel speed was approximately 40 kmph (25 mph). He was transported to the hospital from the scene with non-threatening injuries.