The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of an intersection related roadway. There were three lanes running eastbound with a raised curbed median that separates four lanes running westbound. The roadway is straight and level. The posted speed is 64 KPH (40 MPH). The conditions were dry and clear on a weekday afternoon at dusk.
V1, a 1989 Dodge Ram Van was driven by a 74-year-old male traveling eastbound in lane three. It was rush hour traffic so the traffic flow was congested. There was a disabled vehicle, V4 a 1979 Chevy El Camino that was broken down in lane three causing traffic to come to a stop. The driver of V1 was following very closely to V2, a 1997 Mitsubishi Montero SUV, which was driven by a 25-year-old male who had stopped in lane three because of traffic stopping. The driver of V1 was unable to stop in time when V2 stopped for the traffic and hit the rear causing a chain of reaction pushing V2 into V3, a 1997 Ford F-150 that was also stopped in lane three and was driven by a 58-year-old male. V3 then was pushed into V4, the disabled vehicle. After the impact V1 then bounced backwards and hit V5, a 1996 Buick Park Ave that was driven by a 27-year-old male who had stopped behind V1 when the traffic had come to a stop. The driver of V1 was transported to a local hospital with injuries and his vehicle was towed due to damages. V2, V3, and V5 were not towed due to damages and no one was injured. V4, the El Camino was towed but not due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.
V1, the Dodge Ram was traveling in lane three and was unable to stop in time when V2 came to a stop as the lane was obstructed with V4 who was broken down. The driver stated that he must have been driving too closely as he was not able to stop in time without making contact with V2. The driver was injured and transported to a local hospital with injures. The vehicle was towed due to damages. He was cited for the crash.
V2, the 1997 Mitsubishi Montero SUV, was stopped in lane three for the slowed traffic when he stated in his interview that he looked in his rear-view mirror and saw V1 coming at him. He stated that the driver of the van was tailgating him and that's why he looked into the rear-view because he was nervous he was going to get hit. He was on his way home from work with his girlfriend and baby with whom he was conversing prior to the impact. He was not injured and his vehicle was not towed due to damages.
V3, the Ford F-150 was driven by a 58-year-old male on his way home from work. He was stopped in lane three as he approached the disabled vehicle blocking the lane. He stated in the interview that he was stopped and then he heard a crash and looked in his rear-view mirror and saw the car behind him get hit. There was nothing he could do, as he was sandwiched between 2 cars, V2 and V4. There were no associative factors related to this driver.
V4, the 1979 Chevy El Camino was broken down in the middle of lane three waiting for assistance. The driver was a 39-year-old female who had just picked up her daughter from school. She was not injured and was not involved in the first harmful event.
V5, the 1996 Buick was behind the Van, V1 and after the initial impact the van bounced back and hit the front end of his Vehicle. His vehicle was not towed due to damages and he was not injured. His vehicle was not coded, as he was not involved in the first harmful event.