This nighttime two-vehicle alcohol related head-on collision occurred on a four-way intersection controlled by traffic control signals. Collision occurred on a bituminous, two-way, five-lane, straight, level, and lit roadway. The weather was clear and the pavement dry. The posted speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph). Both vehicles were towed due to damage.
Vehicle one (V1), a black 1993 Ford F-150 pickup occupied by a 39-year-old male driver, was traveling south with the intention of turning left at intersection. Driver was heading home after having stopped at gas station. Driver stated he had been stopped at the intersection for 3-4 seconds and noticed Vehicle two (V2) in northbound left-hand turn lane as if it was going to turn. Instead of turning left, V2 continued straight into V1. V2 front bumper contacted V1 front bumper. V1 was pushed back and came to final rest partially in lanes 2 and 3 facing southeast. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2, a silver 2005 Subaru Baja SUV occupied by a 48-year-old female driver, was traveling north with the intention of turning left. Driver had just departed a bar and was headed home for the night. V2 was in the number 3 lane that is a left turn lane. Driver of V2 stated she was not supposed to turn at the intersection and decided to go straight. V2 crossed the intersection and the front of V2 contacted the front of V1. V2 came to rest between lane 2 and 3 of northbound lanes facing north. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Neither driver reported any injuries.
Driver of V2 really did not recall too many details about the collision, but recalled other related details. Driver 2 had worked that day and met some friends at the bar after work. Driver 2 stated she had consumed about five vodka drinks and felt tipsy, but not intoxicated. Driver 2 stated she realized she was not supposed to turn left at the intersection and decided to go straight. Driver 2 stated she had been on a diet program for about 2 months and lost 20 pounds. Also, driver 2 works long hours and sleeps an average of 6 hours daily. Driver 2 had been awake for over 19 hours before collision, which more than likely made her even more fatigued after consuming alcohol. Nonetheless, driver 2 was impaired.