This two-vehicle crash occurred a few hours before midnight on a straight, dry, two lane, four-leg intersection. Each direction has one lane, with a stop sign for north and southbound travel. The speed limit for north and southbound is 40 kmph (25 mph) and for east and westbound is 48 kmph (30 mph). At the time of the crash, it was dark but lighted and there were no adverse weather conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Nissan Maxima, with one occupant, was northbound in the middle of both lanes. Vehicle two (V2), a Pie Fire Truck, with a driver and three occupants, was eastbound in lane one. V1 ran a stop sign and entered the intersection the same time as V2 was passing through. Driver of V2 braked and steered to the left into the westbound lane to avoid hitting V1 but impacted with its front to the left side of V1. V1 rotated clockwise and impacted with its left side to the right side of V2. V1 then traveled southeast and ran off the south side of the road, impacting a fence with its front. V1 still traveling in a southeasterly direction ran up on top of the fence posts and firewood and impacted a tree with its front. V1 bounced off the tree and came to rest on its wheels facing southeast on top of the fence posts and firewood. Driver of V1 exited the vehicle after it came to rest and ran from the scene. After the impact, V2 ran off the north side of the road in a northeasterly direction and came to a controlled stop on the north dirt shoulder on the east side of the roadway. V1 was towed from the scene while V2 was driven. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1 and 80 kmph for V2.
V1 was driven by an unknown male, who was being chased by the police because the vehicle he was driving, had been stolen that morning. The police were actually responding to the 911 call, when they turned the corner behind V1 and the driver of V1 started driving faster. According to the police, they were now in a chase with V1. They reported that the driver of V1 was driving 80 kmph (50 mph) in a 48 kph (30 mph) speed zone. After the vehicle came to rest, the driver fled on foot and was never found.
A forty-three year old male, who was driving a fire truck and responding to a 911 call for a medical condition was traveling with lights activated, drove V2. He is a fire fighter and is at work two days a weeks for 48 hours and off the rest of the time. He had been sleeping for two hours prior to this call and does not have a problem waking up and going back to sleep after a call. The driver stated they try to get to a call within four minutes, but was not in a hurry. He also stated he feels this is not a stressful job as he has been a fire fighter for a long time.