This crash occurred in an intersection with traffic signals and cross walk signals. The east/west roadway had four lanes of travel - two in each direction. There were four northbound lanes of travel (one way). The roadways were dry, straight, and level concrete. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred in the early afternoon hours on a weekday.
V1 was a 1988 Pontiac Grand Prix driven by a male. V1 was traveling straight in the second northbound lane approaching the intersection. V2 was a 1991 Oldsmobile Cutlass Ciera driven by a 51-year old male. The driver of V2 had just exited a parking lot and was traveling westbound in the second lane of travel. As he approached the intersection, he noted the light was green. He accelerated into the intersection and then suddenly, V1 crossed in front of him from his left, traveling northbound. V1 had not stopped for its red light. The front of V2 struck the right side of V1 in the intersection. This impact rotated V1 clockwise. The driver of V1 steered left and the vehicle then began to rotate counterclockwise. V1 skidded along the west curb where it came to final rest. After impact, V2 rotated slightly clockwise and came to final rest in the middle of the intersection. The driver and a woman occupant in V1 helped an injured third occupant out of the vehicle then fled the scene on foot. The injured occupant was transported to a local trauma unit. The driver of V2 was not injured. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1 was driven by an unknown male who had been test-driving the vehicle as it was for sale. The injured occupant was a friend of the owner, and did not know the driver and his girlfriend, but did recognize them from around the neighborhood. He stated that he had offered to go along with the potential buyers if they drove him to the store. He reported that as V1 neared the intersection, the driver was looking at his right front passenger and talking to her. The driver and the passenger were drinking alcohol in the car. He did not know why they fled the scene. The driver and right front passenger were not identified by police.
The driver of V2 reported that he was in good health and taking no medications. He stated that he does wear corrective lenses but does not know what they are worn for - nearsightedness or farsightedness. He had just entered the roadway from an elder care home where his mother was staying. He also stated that the traffic light was green as he came to the intersection. He claimed that he did not have any time to take any avoidance maneuvers other than to brake.
The witness to the crash was stopped in the fourth northbound lane. He stated that he noted V2 coming from the west and that it had a green light. He stated that V1 passed him on the right and it never slowed, running the red light. He also stated that after he pulled his vehicle to the other side of the intersection so as to not block traffic, he saw the driver and a girl get out of V1 and help the occupant out of the back seat and toward the curb. He stated they walked towards the other vehicle as if they were going to talk to the other driver but then they turned and ran east down the roadway.