This two-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of a three-way intersection. There was one each eastbound/westbound lanes and two southbound lanes. Signalized traffic control devices controlled all directions of travel. The asphalt roadways were dry, level, and straight and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit was 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during the late night dark hours. Streetlights illuminated the dark roadway. The roadway was free of any defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.
Vehicle one, 2000 Nissan Maxima 4/door sedan, was traveling westbound through the intersection when it contacted with front the left front of vehicle two, a 1996 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan, traveling northbound through the same intersection. Vehicle two after the initial contact traveled several feet while rotating counter clockwise and contacted with its front a cement bench and a tree located on the southwest curb where it came to final rest on top of the bench against the tree. Vehicle one after the initial contact rotated counter-clockwise 180 degrees where it came to rest on the curb facing eastward. Both vehicles suffered severe damages and were eventually towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
The driver of vehicle one, a 24-year old female, after several attempts, could not be reached for comment. She was transported to the hospital directly from the scene with injuries.
The driver of vehicle two, a 20-year old female, said as she was approaching the intersection attempting to stop at the red light her shoe/sandal got stuck between the floor and gas pedal, under the gas pedal and she went flying through the intersection and contacted the other vehicle and the cement bench. She said she was traveling northbound at approximately 56 kmph (30mph). This was the first time anything like this ever happened. She's been a license driver for two-years and she's never been in a vehicle crash. She normally sleeps 8 hours a night. However, the night preceding the crash, she only slept 7 hours but says she was not tired. She was driving 'all over the place' running errands and visiting friends. She was transported to the hospital with non-life threatening injuries.