This daylight two-vehicle intersection type collision with rollover occurred where a two-way, four-lane, undivided, straight, and bituminous roadway with a -6.5% grade intersects a one-way, four-lane, straight, and concrete roadway with a 5% grade. Traffic control devices control traffic and the posted speed limit is 40 KPH (25 mph); the weather was clear and the pavement was dry.
Vehicle (V1), a 1998 Mercury Mountaineer 4 door SUV occupied by a restrained 64-year-old male driver, was traveling north in lane one with the intention of going straight. V1 driver was commuting to work, is familiar with roadway, and was listening to radio but not distracted in any way. As V1 approached intersection, driver noticed vehicle two (V2) enter the intersection from the right where the front of V2 struck the right side of V1. V1 driver was unable to initiate any avoidance actions. After impact, V1 rotated clockwise, rolled over then back onto wheels before coming to rest partially in lane one and curb of southbound lanes. No airbag deployed in V1, and it was towed due to damage. The driver was not injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2, a 2006 Volkswagen 4 door Jetta sedan occupied by a restrained 20-year-old male driver, was traveling west in lane one with the intention of going straight. V2 driver was on his way back to college campus dormitory after lunch and dropping off girlfriend. Driver V2, who travels this roadway weekly, claimed nothing distracted him upon approach to the intersection. Driver was possibly timing the lights and made an illegal maneuver (violated red traffic signal), which resulted in the collision. Police viewed footage from a surveillance camera mounted on a federal building showing V2 driver violating red traffic signal. V2 driver braked to avoid collision, but contacted the right side of V1 with its front bumper. After impact, V2 rotated clockwise and came to rest in lane two of northbound lanes facing north. The driver frontal airbag deployed and V2 was towed due to damage. V2 driver was not injured.
V1 driver suffers from high blood pressure and sleep apnea for which he receives CPAP treatment. Driver takes the following medications: celebrex, wellbutrin, prevacid, furosemide, uroxatral, and maxzide. V2 driver takes no medications and does not have any medical conditions.