A two-vehicle daytime collision occurred on a Thursday morning during daylight at the end of the morning rush hour. The collision occurred heading north on a straight two-way, two-lane road that had recently transitioned from a two-way, three lane road with a center left turn lane. Parking lanes bordered each side of the roadway travel lanes. The pre-crash roadway for both vehicles was a downhill grade of 8% and bituminous paving with the crash occurring in lane one. The crash occurred on the approach to a marked crosswalk occupied by pedestrians with a pedestrian crossing warning sign posted at the crosswalk. The roadway has a speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph).
Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Nissan Maxima, and Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Nissan Murano were traveling north in lane one. V2 had stopped for the pedestrians to cross in the marked crosswalk. V1 did not come to a stop, and its front impacted with the rear of V2, pushing it into the crosswalk. V1 was towed due to damage and V2 was driven from scene. The pedestrians were not involved in any impacts with V1 or V2. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 was a 28-year-old female who was on her daily commute from home to work. She stated she was looking at the pedestrians standing on the sidewalk, but said they did not look like they were going to cross. When she looked forward she saw no brake lights on for V2 and did not realize at first that V2 was stopped. She stated that she braked without lock up prior to impact. Upon the scene inspection, no skid marks were seen. The driver claimed to be initially following V2 at a distance of about three car lengths, or 15-meters (50-feet); and traveling at the posted speed limit. She made a false assumption and thought the forward vehicle would continue to proceed. The driver also indicated that she was inattentive and thinking about a future meeting at work she was about to attend. She also had some stress and concerns in her life due to an adversarial work relationship.
The driver of V2 was a 30-year-old female. This driver had left her home and was on her way to work when the collision occurred. She had some concerns about a big meeting at work. She stopped at the crosswalk waiting for the pedestrians to cross, when she observed the pedestrians face show surprise that something was about to hit her vehicle and then the impact occurred. She was unaware of V1's approach behind her since she was looking at the pedestrians.