This two-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of the block in lane one of the southbound lanes. The roadway consisted of four lanes: two southbound and two northbound that were non-physically divided, only double yellow lines divided the two-way roadway. There were curbside parking permitted on the right sides of both the south and north lanes and there were no traffic control devices at this middle of the block location. The asphalt roadways were dry, level, and straight and there were no adverse weather conditions. The crash occurred on a weekday during the early afternoon daylight hours. The roadway was free of any defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.
Vehicle one, 2005 Mazda 6 4/door sedan, was traveling southbound in lane one when it contacted with its front the rear of vehicle two, a 2005 KIA Optima compact utility vehicle, also traveling southbound in lane one. Vehicle two before entering lane one had left a parking lot located on the west side of the southbound travel lanes beyond the curb edge. The curb was approximately 3.2m wide. After the initial impact, vehicle one traveled a few feet where it came to final rest continuing to face southward. Vehicle two after the initial impact, traveled a few feet before coming to final rest facing southward in lane one. Both vehicles suffered severe damages and were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.
The driver of vehicle one, a 23-year old male, was driving a rented vehicle and was returning it to the local return center located a few blocks from where the crash occurred. He was traveling southbound in lane one at approximately 40 mph. He's been a licensed driver for just over six years and said, he 's a good driver; he's only been in three crashes and they were not his fault, he said. Although he rented the vehicle only a few days ago, he felt very comfortable driving it. He didn't see vehicle two until the last minute. He was looking straight ahead and all of a sudden vehicle two came out of nowhere and entered his lane. He slammed on his brakes, but it was too late. He later realized V2 came out of the parking lot located to his right and had made a right turn into his lane. He was talking with a friend and listening to the radio just before the crash. He drives like that all the time and it doesn't interfere with his driving, he said. He travels on the roadway weekly. Both he and his passenger were transported to the hospital by medics with minor injuries.
The driver of vehicle two, a 51-year old female, said she left the parking lot area before entering the roadway, stopped first, thought she looked both ways, made a right turn into lane one, and her vehicle was hit in the rear. She couldn't be certain she looked before entering lane one - but said she's been a licensed driver for more then 32-years and it's a habit to look both ways before entering a roadway. She saw vehicle one when it was down at the end of the block and thought she could make a right turn into lane one before vehicle one passed her but she barely made it. She was also talking with her passenger before the crash and that didn't distract her. She rarely travels on the roadway. She had just left the office building taking care of some business. Both she and her passenger were transported to the hospital by medics with minor injuries.