***Case Note: Due to requirements of contract renewal, this case is being released prior to obtaining a complete Police Accident Report or interview for Driver of V2. The reasons for the missing information are these; the case involves a local police vehicle and a drunk driver facing multiple charges. Due to the fact that a police vehicle is involved, the NJTR1 (PAR) has to be handled by a neighboring jurisdiction in order to avoid conflict of interest and the department handling the report has been very meticulous in their investigation. Also due to the investigation I was asked to wait to speak to the officer involved until a later date.
The crash occurred in the center of a two-lane non-divided roadway. There was one westbound and one eastbound lane. This was a straight, level bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 40 kmph (25 mph). It was early evening on a weekday. The road was dry and the sky was clear. There was no other traffic at the time and the crash was the result of a police pursuit. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, a 2003 Dodge Ram pickup with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane one. V1 was in fleeing police after being in two prior traffic crashes. V2, a 2001 Ford Crown Victoria four door police cruiser (K9 unit) with one human occupant and one canine occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane one. Pursuant to his duty, V2 pulled to a stop just over the centerline to block the progress of V1. V1 crossed the centerline in order to evade V2, striking V2 on the right side. V1 then skid 41.6m, striking a mailbox, to final rest.
V1, the 2003 Dodge Ram pickup, was driven by a 48-year-old male who reported contusion/bruise/abrasion to the face and was transported to the emergency room. He was apparently under the influence of alcohol (BAC test results pending) and traveling at a higher velocity while attempting to evade police when he struck V2.
V2, the 2001 Ford Crown Victoria, was driven by a 26-year-old male who reported Elbow/Lower arm/Hand pain and was transported to the emergency room. Passenger1, a Canine officer of unknown age and unknown injuries, was transported to a local emergency veterinarian. V2 was stopped just over the centerline in an attempt to apprehend V1 when V1 struck him on the right side.