This three-vehicle crash occurred in an intersection on a curbed-median divided, level, straight, north/south roadway. The approach lanes consist of two through lanes and a left turn lane. The speed limit on this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). There is a business-access, two-lane, straight, level roadway on the east side of this roadway. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions. The traffic was congested at this location at the time of the crash.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Lexus RX330, was northbound in lane one. Non-contact vehicles were stopped in northbound lane two due to the congestion. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Chevrolet Monte Carlo, was stopped, southbound in lane three, waiting for traffic to clear to turn left at the intersection. Vehicle three (V3), a 2006 Kia Sorento, was stopped southbound at a stop sign on the business access road. V2 entered the intersection, turning left and the right side was struck by the front of V1. V2 rotated clockwise, traveled to the northeast and the left side struck the right side of V3. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
The driver of V1, a forty-eight-year-old female, was traveling from a photography studio to a store. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route weekly. This driver stated that she did not see V2 until the last minute due to the non-contact vehicles in lane two. When she did see V2, she applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid the crash.
The driver of V2, a twenty-two-year-old male, had left his home and gone to a car wash. At the time of the crash, he had left the car wash and was on his way to work to pick up his paycheck. He was well rested, healthy and comfortable with his vehicle. He travels on this roadway daily. This driver stated that the driver of the stopped vehicle in northbound lane two made a motion indicating that it was clear for him to proceed with his left turn.
The driver of V3, a forty-one-year-old male, was traveling from a restaurant and was on his way back to work. He was in good health, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. This driver travels this route daily.