A two vehicle daytime collision occurred on a clear Thursday. The collision occurred on the southbound lanes of a north/south interstate highway. The collision occurred near a transition ramp to a second highway. The highway is divided, dry, level, concrete, and consists of five lanes. The transition ramp is on the right side of the highway. East of the east edge exists a median. East of the median exists a concrete center divider that separates the northbound and southbound lanes. A concrete construction barrier borders the west edge of the highway. The collision area is a construction zone. At the time of the collision there were orange cones temporarily closing the number one lane. The west edge of the shoulder had warning signs noting the construction. The warning signs were approximately 0.4 kilometers (1/4 of a mile) north of the collision area. The highway is designated a 104 kmph (65 mph) zone.
Vehicle one (V1) is a 2002 Honda Accord, two-door coupe, traveling southbound in the number two lane. Vehicle two (V2) is a 2000 Freightliner tractor pulling one 2005 Great Dane trailer. The trailer was carrying approximately 3,732 kilograms (10,000 lbs) of auto parts. The trailer was 100% full. V2 was traveling in lane two behind V1. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.
As V1 was traveling, it began to merge to the right into lane one so as to enter the transition ramp. The driver of V1 encountered and struck the traffic cones blocking lane one and tried to merge back into lane two. The front plane of V1 contacted the back of the tractor of V2. The right plane of V2 then contacted the left plane of V1. V1 rotated clockwise as the trailer of V2 struck the rear of V1. V1 continued rotating contacting V2's right plane with its right plane. V1 came to rest facing southwest blocking the number one and two lanes. V2 swerved into the number three lane after the initial impact where it came to rest. The driver then pulled unto the west shoulder. V1 was towed with major damage. V2 was driven from the scene.
The driver of V1 is a 28-year-old female traveling to a business meeting from a work function. The driver was 71 kilometers (44 miles) from her destination. The driver's company recently acquired their biggest sales account to date. The driver has been a management trainee for the last seven months and stated she felt the pressure of doing well. The very important account was on her mind as she was driving. The driver was listening to the radio. The driver works ten hours a day, Monday through Friday. She does not have any driver's training. Her driver's license is out-of-state. The out-of-state sticker on her vehicle was expired. The vehicle had a temporary left rear spare tire. The driver had missed her planned transition so had decided to get unto the next available transition. The driver failed to detect the warning sign of road construction ahead. She changed lanes to lane one where she encountered the construction cones. She attempted to re-enter lane two where the vehicle struck V2. She failed to bring the vehicle to a controlled stop in lane one She apparently failed to look far enough ahead and failed to observe the work zone signs and traffic cones. The driver is familiar with the vehicle and travels the route daily.
The driver of V2 is 23-year-old male traveling with a passenger to a delivery. The driver has been operating tractor-trailers for the last four years. The passenger is has been his driving partner for the last two years. Each person typically drives 14-hour shifts on long trips. The driver picked up the load in the northern part of the state and was traveling to the southern part of the state. The driver stopped at a pit stop prior to the collision. The driver has a driver's license from Mexico. He does not have any formal driver's training. He was wearing prescription sunglasses for a myopic and hyperopic condition. He performs 15 minutes of pushups and arm exercises every night.