This two-vehicle crash occurred in an urban 4 legged signal-controlled intersection with crosswalks present in all directions. Southbound approach was straight, level and bituminous. Northbound approach was straight. level and bituminous. All roadways contained curbs and sidewalks. The posted speed limit for all directions was 56 kph (35 mph). Conditions were daylight and clear. Setting was afternoon hours on a weekend.
Vehicle One (V1) was a 1996 Chevrolet Cavalier, four-door compact sedan with two occupants traveling south in lane 2. Vehicle Two (V2) was a 1995 Dodge Neon, four-door compact sedan with one occupant traveling north in lane two. VI made a left turn to travel east and was struck by V2. V2 was attempting to travel straight across the intersection. V2 left approximately 10.4 meters (34 feet) of skid marks prior to the collision with VI. The front plane of V2 contacted the right side of VI. The collision caused VI to travel northeast 7 meters (23 feet) and come to final rest against the east curb line facing northeast. V2 traveled 4.2 meters (14 feet) north of impact and came to final rest facing east. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.
VI, the Chevrolet Cavalier was driven by a 25 year-old female that wasn't transported from the scene, but did seek medical attention that evening. She works 32 hours per week as a house cleaner. She reports being stopped at the red light. When it changed to green without an arrow, the car in front of her turned left, driver of VI reports looking straight and not seeing (V2) coming. When she started to turn left, she was struck on her right front corner by (V2). She denies any sight line restrictions or view obstructions. She literally "thinks (V2) came out of nowhere and made no attempt to avoid hitting her." Her vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling right side damage
(V2), the Dodge Neon was driven by a 20 year-old female who was not injured in the crash. She reports driving straight through the intersection at 64 kph (40 mph), when VI turned left in front of her. She hit the brakes which locked-up, preventing her from being able to steer and avoid the collision. She struck the right front of VI. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front end damage.