The crash occurred in southbound lanes of a one-way, two-lane, undivided interstate roadway. The roadway was an interchange area, and was an exit from one interstate to the entrance of another. This was a straight, level, asphalt roadway, with a posted speed of 105 kmph (65 mph). Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.
V1, a 2002 Honda Accord with one occupant was traveling southbound in lane one. V2, a 2002 Ford F150 with one occupant, was traveling southbound ahead of V1, also in lane one. V1 changed lanes to the left, to pass slower moving traffic. V1 continued to travel in lane two, approaching a van traveling in the same lane. The van suddenly slowed due to congested traffic. V1 quickly changed lanes to the right, to avoid the van. As a result, the front of V1 made contact with the left side of V2, causing the back end of V2 to lift off of the pavement. V2's driver was able to regain control of the vehicle. V1 started to rotate clockwise after impact. As the vehicle rotated, the left side of V1 made contact with a third, unknown vehicle that was not listed on the police report. V1 then traveled off the left side of the roadway into a vegetated separator (grass swale). V1 came to final rest on the separator, facing east, near a palm tree. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.
V1, the Honda Accord, was driven by an 18-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he had just left his friend's house to do an errand for his brother, before going to class. The driver started out in lane one (right lane), but merged to the left lane to pass a slower moving vehicle. Within seconds, the driver caught up to traffic in lane two as well. He was about to make a lane change, when the van in front of him suddenly applied its brakes. The driver indicated that he made an abrupt lane change to avoid rear-ending the vehicle in front of him.
V2, the Ford F-150, was driven by a 63-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he was going southbound in lane one. The driver indicated that he never saw the other driver coming. The driver believed that he was hit twice, because he felt his vehicle lift off the ground, and did not think that the side impact would have done that. However, there was no damage to the back of V2. He said he had to fight the wheel, but was somehow able to regain control of his vehicle.