The crash occurred at an intersection with three lanes of travel one in each direction with a left turn lane. The north/south lanes are fresh asphalt. The slope for the southbound lanes is +7/122. The slope for the eastbound lanes is a -4/122. The speed is posted at 56 kmph (35 mph). The intersection is controlled with a traffic light without pedestrian crossing.
Vehicle #1 a 2003 Ford Taurus was traveling south and Vehicle #2 a 2002 Pontiac Aztec was traveling west. As V1 entered the intersection on a red light its front contacted V2's right passenger doors pushing V2 towards the southwest curb. V2 then contacted the curb on the southwest corner rolling over 4 - quarter turns coming to final rest on the grass just off the south road edge. V1 rotated clockwise to face west for final rest in the center of the intersection. The drivers of both vehicles were checked out on scene but not transported. The passenger in V2 was transported due to injuries. Both vehicles where towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
Vehicle #1 a 2003 Ford Taurus was driven by a 48 year-old female that stated she is in good health but is taking a medication for a thyroid condition. She also stated she does not wear corrective lenses at this time. She stated she is not familiar with the area and was traveling on the roadway going home from a client's home. She stated that as she approached the intersection the traffic light was green. She stated she looked over at her GPS unit then back to the traffic light that had just turned green so she never decelerated. As she entered the intersection a vehicle came from her left she stated she locked her brakes and steered right but could not avoid contact with the other vehicle.
Vehicle #2 a 2002 Pontiac Aztec was driven by a 61 year-old male that stated he is in good health and is not taking any medications at this time. He stated he was wearing hearing aids at the time of the crash and does not wear corrective lenses. He stated he had taken his relative out to the south side of town to do some errands. As they traveled west on the roadway the driver stated he decelerated for the intersection. He stated the light was green. As he looked right then left the drivers passenger stated the southbound vehicle was not going to stop. The driver stated he looked back to his right in time to see the vehicle entering the intersection. He stated there was no time to react.
Witness #1 stated that he was sitting in the turn off lane to the right of the intersection. He stated he was looking left as the crash occurred waiting for traffic to clear. He stated that a blue vehicle that was traveling south was going over the speed posted for its roadway. The witness stated the driver was using a cell phone as she entered the intersection. The witness stated after contact the southbound vehicle rotated clockwise to face west for final rest. The westbound vehicle rotated clockwise on the left side tires. Then contacting the southwest curb and rolling 4-quarter turns coming to final rest on it tires facing northwest.
Witness #2 stated she was traveling south in lane #2 and had come to a stop for the red light. She stated she looked in her rearview mirror to see the blue vehicle coming up behind her vehicle. She also stated the driver was talking on her cell phone. She stated the driver changed lanes very fast into lane #1 then entering the intersection contacting the westbound vehicle causing it to roll over 4-quarter turns to come to final rest on its tires. She stated she waited for the light to turn green before traveling to a parking lot on the southwest side of the intersection so she could check on the occupants in the rollover vehicle.