This two-vehicle crash occurred in a signal-controlled north/south road that had an intersecting highway on-ramp/off-ramp to the west. There were three northbound lanes, one of them being a dedicated left turn lane. There were two southbound lanes with a right highway on-ramp that began 46 meters (151 feet) prior to the intersection. Both roadways were straight, level, bituminous with an authorized speed limit of 72 kph (45 mph). Setting was late evening hours on a weekend. Conditions were dark, with overhead amber street lighting, clear and dry.
Vehicle 1 (V1) was a 2005 Suzuki Forenza, four door, compact with three occupants traveling northbound in lane three, the left turn lane. Vehicle 2 (V2) was a 1999 Dodge Neon, four door, compact with one occupant traveling southbound in lane two. V2 had switched lanes from lane two to lane one approximately 23 meters (75 feet) prior to approaching the intersection and had left its right blinker on. V1 had approached the same intersection with the intention of turning left to enter the highway on-ramp. V1 turned left in front of V2 because they though V2 was turning right due to its right turn signal being on. V1 started to accelerate and make its left turn when it was struck on the right side by the front of V2. During impact V1 was pushed laterally with slight clockwise rotation by V2 leaving 2.7 meters (8.8 feet) of yaw marks, before coming to final rest, V1 was moved to the the curb-line prior to my arrival. V2 came to final rest 10.5 meters (34 feet) south of impact area before being driven another 76 meters (249 feet) south to a safer location. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a 20 year-old female was not injured in the crash. She reports being a full time college student who was currently out on break. The driver and her two friends had just left the movie theather. The driver was taking her two friends home when the crash occurred. Prior to them arriving at the intersection, she reported having a green left turn arrow, but when she arrrived it had changed to a solid green. She saw V2 coming from the opposite direction toward her with its right turn signal on. She assumed V2 was turning right onto the on-ramp and that they could merge together. As she started to turn, it was apparent V2 wasn't turning right, but was actually traveling straight. She claims V2 sped up for some unknown reason. In an attempt to avoid the crash, she accelerated, but V2 struck the right passenger side door. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with extensive right side damage.
The driver of V2, a 16 year-old male was not injuried in the crash. He is a full time high school student who was currently out on break. He said himself and his friend had been playing video games all night. He had just left his house to bring his friend home. He reported being in lane two, the far left lane, but needed to be in lane one. As he approached the intersection, he put his right turn signal on and switched lanes. He noticed VI with its left turn signal creeping into the intersection, but didn't think they would turn in front of him. He braced the wheel and hit the brakes. He reported feeling pulsating from the ABS application in his feet. He thinks he steered right also, but couldn't remember for sure. He then hit the right side of V1. His vehicle suffered disabling front end damage, but was driveable and driven to a safer location after impact. It should be noted that the driver of V2 had an age restricted license which required him to have a licensed supervisor between the hours of 5 a.m. and 9 p.m. (which the driver did not have).