This two-vehicle crash occurred during the early afternoon. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions present at the time of the crash. The crash occurred on a three-lane, uphill, dry, bituminous roadway that runs north to south and curves moderately to the left. The roadway is curved left in the north bound direction. The crash occurred in a merging area where the roadway was narrowing from five lanes to three lanes. The right lanes of travel were dedicated to northbound traffic. In the area of the first impact, the two northbound lanes merge into one northbound lane. The roadway has a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). In the 300 meters (984 feet) prior to impact, there was a narrowing lane sign indicating that the two northbound lanes merge into one lane. There were also painted arrows that instruct drivers in lane one to merge into lane two.
Vehicle one (V1), a gray 1992 Chevrolet Cavalier 2 door sedan was traveling northbound in an area where the two northbound lanes merge into the left lane and was attempting to merge from lane one into lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a light gray/silver 2005 Chevrolet Colorado pickup truck was traveling northbound in lane two. As V1 attempted its merging maneuver, the right front of V2 contacted the left side of V1. Post-impact, V1 went into a counterclockwise yaw and departed lanes one and two to the left. V1 then departed the roadway to the left and rolled down an embankment. V1 rolled towards the right two-quarter turns about its longitudinal axis and came to rest off of the roadway on its roof. While rolling over, V1 contacted a small tree, breaking off the tree about a foot above the ground. V1 contained two occupants, a 33-year-old male and his 5-year-old son. Neither of the occupants was injured in the crash. V1 was towed due to damage. V2 came to rest facing north on the roadway. V2 contained one occupant, a 47-year-old male who was not injured in the crash. V2 was not towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1 advised that he was attempting to merge to the left when the driver of V2 accelerated to prevent him from merging. He was looking over his shoulder to his left (rear) when the crash occurred. He stated that they made contact in lane one and the impact caused him to lose control of the vehicle and roll off of the road and down the embankment. The driver of vehicle one also stated that he drives both the vehicle and the roadway on a daily basis and has no formal or informal driver training. He was coming home from work when the crash occurred. The driver reported that he was healthy at the time of the crash except for a case of poison oak irritation that was on both of his arms and was presently being treated with steroids. He also advised that he has partial hearing loss on his right side, however, he does not wear a hearing aid. The driver was not fatigued at the time of the crash and has gotten 12 hours of sleep on the day prior to the crash.