This crash occurred in a 4-way intersection. The north/south roadway was a 2-lane undivided roadway. The eastbound approach to the intersection was a 4-lane undivided roadway (2 lanes in each direction) and the westbound approach to the intersection was a 3-lane undivided roadway (2 lanes westbound and 1 lane eastbound). This was a straight, bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). It was early afternoon on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was slightly congested with stop-and- go traffic activity.
V1, a 1999 Pontiac Montana minivan, was traveling westbound in lane 2 intending on making a left at the intersection. V2, a 2001 Dodge Durango Sport Utility Vehicle, was traveling eastbound in lane 1. As V1 neared the intersection, a non-contact vehicle traveling in lane 2 in front of V1 stopped while waiting for eastbound traffic to clear before initiating a left turn. V1 came up upon the stopped non-contact vehicle and decided to pass the non-contact vehicle on the right before making a left turn from the right lane. V1 did not attempt to slow down for the vehicle in front and went around it to make the left turn. As V1 entered the intersection, the driver of V1 saw V2 traveling east in the first lane of travel. V1 braked without lock up and steered to the left in an attempt to minimize its own damage. The driver of V2 saw V1 enter the intersection and applied the brakes hard while steering to the right in an attempt to avoid the collision. V2 was unsuccessful in its avoidance maneuvers and the two vehicles impacted, with the front left of V1 striking the left passenger side of V2. V2 continued to skid for 72 meters. V2 then proceeded to strike down the light post with the left driver's door and then hit a tree on the passenger's side front door before coming back to final rest with the rear left tire on top of light post base. After the crash V1 ended up in the westbound lane, facing west and fled the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the 1999 Pontiac Montana, was driven by a 20-year old unlicensed driver. When the police caught up to him a few blocks away following the crash he reported no injuries. The driver had recently come to the United States from Mexico and did not yet have a valid United States driver's license but did claim to have one in Mexico. He took his parents' car without their permission and was heading to the grocery store. He fled the scene because he was nervous and unsure of what he should do after the accident occurred. Through their investigations, the police estimated that he took the left turn at 89 kmph (55 mph).
V2, the 2001 Dodge Durango, was driven by a 33-year old female who had reported injuries. This driver was unsure of her exact travel speed at the time of the accident but said that she was keeping up with the flow of traffic in front of her. This driver reported seeing V1 going around the non-contact vehicle and coming through the intersection when it was not clear. She tried to avoid the collision with V1 but was unsuccessful in getting out of V1's path of travel in time.