This three-vehicle crash occurred in the intersection of two surface streets controlled by a three-color signal supplemented by a pedestrian signal. The main road has four lanes and is straight and level with a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). The intersecting road has two-lanes and is straight and level with a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Acura Integra was eastbound in the first lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1990 Toyota Corolla station wagon was southbound in the first lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 1988 GMC pickup truck was stopped in the first lane facing north. V1 entered the intersection and the front of V2 impacted the left side of V1. V2 rotated counterclockwise and departed the roadway and the front of V2 impacted a mailbox. The front of V1 then impacted the left of V3. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. V3 was not towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a forty-two year old female, was on her way from one job to another job. This driver had just begun driving at the time of the crash. This driver was taking Paxil as a medication. This driver indicated that she was running late for a business appointment. This driver indicated that she works under a tight schedule and was upset at the time of the crash. As the driver entered the intersection she stated that she leaned over to get a phone number off of a piece of paper on the floor. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.
The driver of V2, a fifty-eight year old female, was heading home from the bank. This driver had been driving for less than ten minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that she was stopped and proceeded when the light turned green. This driver indicated that she was looking right at an unspecified object. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.
The driver of V3, a fifty-one year old male, was not interviewed.