This two vehicle crash occurred in a three-leg intersection. The north and south end of the intersection had six lanes, two through lanes and one left turn lane. The eastbound roadway is a two way, two lane, level, and straight bituminous roadway. The intersection was straight, level, and bituminous with a posted speed in the north/south direction as 64 kmph (40 mph) and 48 kmph (30 mph) coming from the west. It was mid-afternoon on a holiday weekend and the road was dry and the sky was cloudy. The traffic flow was heavy.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1978 Harley Davidson motorcycle with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1989 Lincoln Town Car four door with one occupant, was stopped at the light in lane one in the eastbound lane in preparation to turn left. The light changed green for V2 and the vehicle proceeded to move out into the intersection. The driver of V1 saw V2 coming into the intersection and proceeded to hit his back brakes. The back brakes on V1 did not work so he changed lanes into lane two in an attempt to swerve around V2. The front of V1 contacted the left front side of V2. The driver of V1 was thrown off the motorcycle onto the pavement and the motorcycle came to rest on its left side in the intersection. V2 rolled forward slightly and came to rest on all four tires facing east in the middle of the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.
A 45-year old male who was transported to a trauma facility for injuries drove V1. He stated that he left home and was on his way to the motorcycle shop to get the brakes on the motorcycle fixed again, due to the motorcycle shop not fixing them correctly the first time. He saw V2 proceed into the intersection. He then stated that he tried his back brakes but found no activation, so he tried to "swing out to the left" in front of her to keep from hitting her. He was unsuccessful in his avoidance maneuver. He reported going approximately 64 kmph (40 mph). He stated getting seven and a half hours of sleep the night before. He also stated he works an average of seven hours per day and works forty-five hours a week. The driver was not wearing a helmet. V1 was towed due to moderate frontal damage.
A 79-year old woman who reported no injuries drove V2. She stated that she was stopped at the light in preparation to turn left. She stated the light had turned green and when she was in the intersection vehicle one hit her on the left side. She reported going approximately 24 kmph (15 mph). She stated getting nine hours of sleep the night before. She also stated being retired. V2 towed due to moderate left side damage.