This two-vehicle crash occurred in the late afternoon on a two-way, two-lane roadway, which was not physically divided. The bituminous roadway was straight and level for vehicle one (V1), however, there was a slight downhill grade for vehicle two (V2). The posted speed limit on the roadway was 64kmph (40mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash and the roadway was dry. No traffic control devices were present at the crash location, and there were no traffic flow problems when the crash occurred.
Vehicle one, a 2000 Ford Ranger, was traveling west on the roadway intending to go straight. Vehicle two, a 2005 Honda Pilot, was traveling east in the opposite direction, also intending to go straight. Vehicle one crossed over the double center yellow lines and struck vehicle two. After the impact both vehicles rotated slightly in a clockwise motion before coming to final rest in the eastbound lane. Both vehicles had to be towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1 and 80 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a 17 year-old male, suffered from unknown injuries, but was transported to the hospital for treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. After numerous attempts, an interview could not be obtained with this driver. For this reason it is uncertain weather any health factors contributed to this crash. The investigating officer relayed that the driver of V1 had fallen asleep behind the wheel, which was consistent with the evidence at the scene.
The driver of V2, a 40 year-old female, suffered unknown injuries and was taken to the hospital for treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A complete interview was obtained from this driver who stated that the other vehicle had drifted into her lane. She honked her horn and tried to steer away from the vehicle, but there was nothing she could do to avoid the crash. No health or fatigue related factors were coded to this driver, however, she was taking a prescription anti-depressant.