This crash occurred on a clear sunny late morning with no adverse weather conditions apparent. The crash took place at an intersection that was under construction at the time, along with some median maintenance. Roadways of V1 were 4 lanes divided by a raised median and 3 lanes for V2. At the time V1 had only 2 lanes heading north due to lanes 2 and 3 being closed off by barrels. Traffic on the northbound lanes had to turn either west or east at the intersection, due to the fact that the northbound lanes across the intersection were closed off for construction. V2 roadway also was closed off with barrels at the lane next to the median for median work. The intersection was controlled by traffic signals with pedestrian crossings. The speed limit was 72 kmph (45 mph) For both drivers. The roadway was concrete and dry.
Vehicle one (V1) was a red 2000 Ford Focus 3 door hatchback, driven by an 81 year-old male who is taking an unknown medication for a prostrate problem. The driver of V1 had 7.75 hrs of sleep the night before the crash; at the time of the crash the driver was tired. The driver was traveling to either pick up, his wife or visit her at a care facility. The driver had left home about 25 minutes previously and was within a few minutes of his destination. The driver stated that he drives this roadway daily. When V1 got to the intersection it stopped for a few seconds then proceeded to turn left with the green light. A vehicle had turned left in front of V1. V1 waited a few seconds then turned left also. V1 turned left and was struck on the right front by the front of Vehicle two (V2). V1 was then pushed counter clockwise into the turn lane. V1 came to final rest facing south on the median. The driver of V1 was uninjured and the vehicle was towed due to damage. Both frontal airbags deployed in V1. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2 was a red 1997 Ford F250 2 door pickup driven by a 33 year-old male who is taking Lexapro daily for depression. V2 also had a 3 year-old male in a child seat in the right front seat position. The driver of V2 had just left a restaurant after having breakfast with family, and was taking the child to a friend's house. The driver had gotten 9.5 hours sleep and was fully rested. V2 had a bed loaded with construction equipment in it that the driver uses daily. V2 was headed south in the 4th lane approaching the intersection when the driver saw V1 approach the intersection and stop. V2 started to enter the intersection when V1 proceeded and turned left. V2 braked, but still struck the front of V1 With it's front bumper. V2 ended up facing south, still in the same lane. The driver of V2 was not injured; the right front passenger complained of pain, but it is unknown if the child was transported for treatment. V2 was not equipped with any airbag. V2 was driven from the scene.