This crash occurred in the early afternoon of a weekday in the southbound lanes of a high volume, high occupancy, high-speed interstate highway. The highway consisted of five northbound lanes and five southbound lanes separated by a concrete barrier wall and a featured a posted speed of 105kmph (65 mph). The bituminous highway was dry, straight, and level. The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.
V1, a 2002 Lexus GS 300 was southbound in lane four traveling the speed. V2, a 2000 Freight Liner 18-wheel semi was southbound in lane three also traveling the speed limit slightly behind V1. As V1 tried to change lanes into lane three he was struck on the right side by the front left corner of V2. The impact caused V1 to rotate clockwise across three travel lanes and depart the roadway to the left. V1 struck a concrete wall with its left side before coming to final rest on the shoulder of the highway. V2 came to a controlled stop on the shoulder of the roadway ahead of V1. After V1 came to final rest the driver attempted to put the car in park but instead put it in reverse, which caused it to contact the rear of V2 as it sat on the shoulder. The force of impact caused the back windshield to shatter. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.
V1 was driven by a 91 year-old male who on his way to his time-share with his wife. He stated in the interview that he changed lanes to the right, into lane three and was hit from behind by a tractor-trailer. When asked if he noticed the trailer in his lane he stated he did not see him. Neither the driver or his wife in the front passenger seat sustained any injuries but V1 was towed due to damage.
V2 was driven by a 56 year-old male who was driving his normal route. He stated in his interview that V1 just changed over in his lane. The driver of V2 stated that he tried to apply the brakes to avoid the collision but was unable to stop the truck in time. The driver was uninjured and V2 was driven from the scene.