This two-vehicle crash occurred on a four-leg intersection, involving a driveway. North and southbound traffic, which includes the driveway, has two lanes in each direction. The driveway is located on the north side of the east/west roadway. . Westbound traffic has two through lanes and one left turn lane. Eastbound traffic has one through lane and one left turn lane. This was a straight, level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 48 kph (30 mph). It was mid morning on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1985 Honda Civic four-door with one occupant, was southbound coming out of the driveway to turn left, eastbound. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Chevrolet Colorado two door pickup with one occupant, was westbound in lane two traveling straight. There was a passenger bus that was westbound in lane one attempting to enter the driveway to travel north. This bus obstructed the view of both drivers. The driver of V1 proceeded into the intersection after being stopped for 3-5 seconds. The driver stopped, looked left, looked right and then left and detected V2. The driver of V2 swerved to the left but the front of V2 struck the left side of V1. V1 came to rest on its wheels facing southeast in the middle of the intersection. V2 came to rest on its wheels facing westbound in the eastbound left turn lane. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Neither of the drivers was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.
A 72 year-old male drove V1, the Honda Civic. He had just dropped off his election ballot and was heading home. He stated he was stopped in the driveway and did indeed see the bus turning right into the driveway. He said he wasn't in a hurry and pulled out slowly and stopped in the middle of the intersection. He looked to the left, than to the right and while looking back to the left was struck by V2. He had hip replacement surgery five years ago, which bothers him at times. He takes a water pill everyday and did not remember the name of it. He uses reading glasses to read and did not have him on at the time of the crash.
A 61 year-old male drove V2, the 2006 Chevrolet Colorado. He had hit his head the day before at work and felt fine. After the crash, he stated he felt "weird", so he was transported to a trauma center. He had gotten gas and was delivering items to a customer when the crash happened.