This two vehicle crash occurred during early morning daylight rush hour traffic at a tee-intersection with no control signals. The speed limit for the roadway is 64 kmph (40 mph). The road is a 4-lane divided (no positive barrier) concrete south-north roadway for both vehicles. The road was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash. The traffic in lanes two and three of the northbound lanes was backed up from a red light at the next intersection to the north. There was a gap in the traffic, wide enough for a vehicle to pass through the intersection.
Vehicle one (V 1), a 2000 Toyota Celica 2-door coupe driven by a 29 year-old female was traveling south in lane four of the southbound lanes, attempting to make a left turn at the intersection. Vehicle two (V 2), a 2006 Infinity M45 sedan driven by a 36 year-old male was traveling north in the first lane approaching the intersection. This lane was free of traffic up until the next intersection. This lane is blocked for regular traffic and is supposed to be used by public transportation busses only, which was the reason the lane was free of traffic. At the intersection, the front of V2 impacted with the front of V1. V 1 rotated counter clockwise. V2 rotated clockwise. Both vehicles moved northbound and came to rest within the intersection, facing northeast. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, having no drivers' license at all, stated she was driving for about 4 years. She came back from taking her husband to work as she does every day. The spouse's work location is a roughly 10 minute drive from the crash site. The driver performs that turn every day at about the same time. She claimed the traffic in lanes two and three was stopped and left a gap wide enough to pass through. She said she did not see V2 because of the cars stopped in the northbound lanes.
The driver of V2 said his lane was clear of forward traffic all the way to the next intersection. He was looking straight ahead into his driving direction when V1 encroached into his lane. He did not seem in a hurry on his way to work and claimed he was not talking on the phone. During the on-scene research and the driver interview on scene, the researcher observed the driver of V2 constantly being on the phone. The interview was interrupted by phone calls several times. Despite driving on this roadway 4-5 times a week at the same hour, the driver was not aware or ignored he was driving in a bus-only lane. The sign indicating busses only/right turn only is located approximately 200 meters (660 feet) south of the crash site. The limit is effective from 7:00 am to 9:00 am. The crash occurred during the restricted hours The right turn only is valid for the next intersection which is the crash site. The driver intended to continue north. The next intersection north of the crash site did not have a right turn at all. Prior to the next possible right turn in the northern direction, there were more busses only/right turn lane signs located. The signs are posted every 400 meters (quarter mile). Despite being familiar with the intersection and rush hour traffic back-ups at this particular location, the driver approached the tee- intersection with a speed of about 56 kmph (35 mph) as stated at the scene. He did not slow down despite the traffic being stopped at the intersection, limiting his line of sight.