The crash occurred on a four-lane interstate highway divided by a concrete barrier. There were two lanes in each direction, north and southbound. The roadway was straight, dry and level for northbound traffic and was curved to the right, and level for southbound traffic. The radius of curvature for the southbound roadway was 316m with a super-elevation of about 4%. The posted speed limit was 89kph (55mph). The roadway for southbound traffic did not meet AASHTO standards for radius of curvature for the posted speed limit (362m). The crash occurred early on a weekday afternoon under cloudy skies while traffic was moderate.
V1, a 2004 Freightliner tractor towing a 53 foot trailer, had one occupant and was southbound in lane two. V2, a 2002 Chevy Camaro Z28, two-door with one occupant was northbound in lane two. V3, a 2002 Nissan Sentra four-door with one occupant was northbound in lane two ahead of V2. V1, southbound in the curved section of roadway lost control and sideswiped the center barrier. The impact caused the cargo unit to disengage at the fifth wheel. The trailer struck the rear of the power unit and then started to climb over the barrier and then to skid along the top of the barrier. The power unit of V1 came to rest against the barrier about 200m south of the first impact. The cargo unit of V1 fell over the barrier and began skidding on its left side southbound across the northbound lanes. V3 had been northbound and was struck by debris falling off the barrier. V2 was northbound and was struck by the front end of the cargo unit of V1. The impact caused V2 to rotate clockwise and then back southbound in the northbound lane two. V2 then stuck the center barrier and came to rest facing south against the barrier. The cargo unit of V1 continued sliding southbound and came to rest straddling the east shoulder of the roadway and across an exit ramp from the roadway and about 175m from the first impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the Freightliner, tractor-trailer, was driven by a 36-year old male who was not injured. He advised that this was his first time on the roadway and that he had only been driving this type of vehicle for four months. He said he was driving interstate and was traveling 93kph (58mph) when for no apparent reason his vehicle struck the center barrier and his cargo unit disengaged. He added that he had tapped the brakes just prior to impact and that he had not felt a cargo shift.
V3, the Nissan Sentra, was driven by a 42-year old male who was not injured. He reported that he was traveling at the speed limit returning to work from lunch. The driver said he saw the cargo unit of V1 coming over the barrier from the opposite direction and that, as he was passing, debris from the barrier or the cargo unit struck the left front fender of his vehicle.
V2, the Chevy Camaro, was driven by a 32-year old male who was coded with possible injuries and was transported to a hospital. The driver reported that he was traveling 89-97kph (55-60mph) when he suddenly saw the cargo unit of V1sliding on its side and headed directly at him. He said quickly braked without lockup and steered right trying to avoid impact unsuccessfully. He said the front of his vehicle was struck by the cargo unit and that the next thing he remembered was winding up stopped facing the wrong way against the barrier.