This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-way, stop sign-controlled intersection. On the west side of the intersection, the roadway is undivided and consists of a single lane in each direction. This roadway is straight, downhill going eastbound, and has a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). Traffic approaching the intersection from the west is controlled by a stop sign. On the north side of the intersection, the roadway consists of two through lanes going southbound that are divided from the northbound roadway by a large grassy median; the northbound roadway is not part of the intersection. This roadway curves left with a radius of 118 meters (387 feet), is level and has a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph).
Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Ford Mustang with two occupants, was eastbound in lane one, stopped at the stop sign. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Honda CR-V with two occupants, was southbound in lane one, approaching the intersection. Both vehicles entered the intersection and the front of V2 struck the left side of V1. V1 rotated clockwise and came to rest facing south in the middle of the intersection. V2 rotated slightly counterclockwise and came to rest facing south beside V1. V1 was towed due to damage and V2 was driven from the scene. None of the occupants were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a sixteen-year-old male, was driving his fourteen-year-old sister to her friend's house. He admitted to the researcher on-scene that he was lost and frustrated and trying to get directions via cell phone from his sister's friend. It was dark and he was unfamiliar with the neighborhood, having never driven on that roadway before. He also stated he was in a little bit of a hurry because he wanted to get to his own friend's house afterward. He was well rested and in good health; he takes no medications. He has been driving 14 months and has had no driver's education.
The driver of V2, a fifteen-year-old male, was driving from eating dinner with his mother to their home. He was well rested, comfortable with his vehicle, and has been driving this route often since obtaining his learner's permit five months earlier. The only associative factor for this driver is that he is inexperienced. He is healthy and takes no medications.