This single vehicle rollover crash occurred on the median strip of an interstate highway. The three eastbound lanes curve left with a radius of 341 meters (1148 ft) and a super elevation of 5%.. There was a downgrade of 3% also. The three westbound lanes curve slightly right and have an uphill grade. The eastbound lanes and westbound lanes are divided by a 9.6 meter (31 ft) wide depressed sod median. The speed limit for this roadway is 89 kph (55 mph). This crash occurred in the late afternoon on a weekend. Traffic was moderate and there were no adverse weather conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Subaru Legacy with one occupant, was eastbound in lane two, passing a bus in lane one. The driver of V1 lost control as the vehicle initiated a counter clockwise yaw. V1 continued its counterclockwise yaw through lane three eastbound as it entered the grass median. V1 traveled in a yaw through the median, which goes slightly downhill from the eastbound lanes and slightly back uphill to the westbound lanes. The rollover tripping point came as V1 neared the westbound lanes. V1 rolled two ¼ turns longitudinally and came to rest on its top facing south in lane three of the westbound traffic. The vehicle was towed from the scene and the driver was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1.
The driver of V1, a 54-year-old female, was driving from her home, about sixty miles away from the crash site, to meet some friends. The driver stated the bus changed lanes in front of her and she had to take evasive action. The driver claimed she was not in a hurry, but said that she had two stops to make before 1730 hours. She also stated that she, as well as her son, had been sick for about two weeks. Because of this, her sleep schedule had rotated because both of their coughing at night kept her awake. The morning of the crash, she didn't get to sleep until about 0200 hours and slept until 0600 hours. She was likely fatigued because her normal sleep is six hours per night. She reported taking Tylenol PM, Benadryl, and cough syrup in the 24 hours preceding the crash. Medical records state a BAC of 0.287 less than an hour after the crash.