The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of an east/west primary arterial road that had five travel lanes (lane 3 was a two way turn lane) and a paved shoulder on the south side of the roadway. It happened in a business district at a shopping center driveway entry/exit that intersected the south side of the roadway, had three lanes (two exit-left and right turn only, and an entry lane) and exit traffic was controlled by a stop sign that was over fifteen meters south of the arterial roadway. The roadway had a positive (if eastbound) two percent grade with no traffic controls, was straight, and had a speed limit of 56kph (35mph). The crash occurred in mid afternoon on a weekday with no adverse weather conditions.
Vehicle #1 was a1998 Plymouth Neon that was preparing to turn left from the left turn lane of the shopping center driveway intending to head west on the arterial roadway when it was waved out by a non-contact vehicle in the right eastbound lane that had stopped to let Vehicle #1 out. As Vehicle #1 proceeded into the roadway it was struck on the left plane near its front by Vehicle#2, a 1990 Chevrolet Lumina that was traveling east on the arterial road in the 2nd lane. Vehicle #1 spun about 70 degrees clockwise and came to rest facing northeast in the eastbound lane 2. Vehicle #2 came to rest still contacting Vehicle #1 and was facing east, straddling lanes two and three. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
Vehicle #1, was driven by a 19 year-old belted female whose airbags did deploy as a result of the crash. She was uninjured in the crash. the driver stated that she was trying to turn left out of the mall to go home when this blue car stopped and waved her out of the driveway. She couldn't see any one coming on the other side of the car so she pulled out. that is when she got hit. She was cited by police with failure to yield.
Vehicle #2, was driven by a 21 year-old belted female whose vehicle was not equipped with airbags but was nonetheless uninjured in the crash. There were three minor age occupants in the vehicle. The right front occupant was a 16 year-old belted female (uninjured). The left rear occupant was a 2 year-old female in a child seat (uninjured). The right rear occupant was a 1 year-old male who was in a child seat also but was transported due to possible injury to a local hospital.