The crash occurred on a north/south secondary arterial road in a retail district at a four-way intersection with a shopping center driveway that ran east/west and was controlled by traffic lights (on-colors w/o pedestrian signal). The north leg of the intersection had three southbound lanes (#3, being a left turn only lane) that were divided from 2 northbound lanes by a curb height concrete median. The south leg of the intersection had three northbound lanes (#3, being a left turn only lane) that were divided from 2 southbound lanes by a curb height concrete median. The west leg of the intersection had an eastbound through/right turn lane (1), a left turn lane (2, eastbound also) and a westbound entry into the shopping center (3). The arterial had a speed limit of 72kph (45mph) and the crossroad had a speed limit of 16kph (10mph). The involved roadways were straight and level. Conditions were daylight and dry at mid-afternoon on a weekend.
V1, was a 1998 Ford Crown Victoria that was headed north in the left turn only lane, intent on turning west/left into the shopping center and when it made it's turn V1 was struck on the right side by the front of V2. V2 was a 2004 Chevrolet Impala that was traveling south on the arterial in lane 2 when V1 crossed its path. V1 had steered to the right with the driver reportedly braking heavily (she stated that she felt the brake pedal thumping) at impact. V1 came to rest facing due west about a meter east of lane 2 eastbound of the shopping center driveway stop line with its front touching the front of V3 a 1999 Ford Explorer that was pulling a trailer loaded with lawn equipment and was stopped in lane 2 eastbound waiting for the light to turn green. V2 came to rest facing southeast just north of V1's back right. V1 and V3 were driven away with V3 leaving as the researcher was arriving. V2 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1 was driven by a restrained seventy-three year old female who was uninjured in the crash. She was on her way to the store at the time of the crash. She stated that she saw V2 but was sure that she had time to make the turn. V2 was probably going too fast to have gotten to the intersection so quickly. Her light was solid green.
V2 was driven by a thirty-eight-year-old belted female who along with her two restrained children in row two were uninjured. She stated that she was in the middle lane going straight and coming up on the intersection, the light was just going yellow and V1 turned in front of her.
V3 was driven by a thirty-seven year old belted male who was uninjured in the crash. He was not licensed at the time of the crash. He was uncooperative and was only able to give a brief non-descript statement over the phone before his girlfriend terminated the interview. He stated that he was stopped at the light and they hit me. He didn't really see it that good.