Case 2007-153
The crash occurred on a two-lane undivided east/westbound roadway with one lane in each direction. The asphalt roadway was straight, dry and level with a 2% super-elevation to the north. There were no traffic control devices. The posted speed limit was 72kmph/45mph. The crash occurred early on a weekend morning while traffic flow was light under clear skies. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
V1, a 2003 Nissan Xterra four-door SUV with one occupant was eastbound in lane one. The vehicle's right side tires went off the road into a ditch parallel to the road and traveled in the ditch for about 95m before it re-entered the road and began to yaw in a counter-clockwise rotation as it crossed and departed the road on the left side about 25m east of the re-entry point. The vehicle skidded sideways down an embankment with a 29% slope. At the bottom of the embankment the vehicle rolled over longitudinally onto its right side before continuing to roll 3 more quarter turns until it landed upright and continued traveling northeastward across two yards and two driveways. The vehicle's front right struck a planter and bush, which caused it to rotate again in a counter-clockwise direction before it came to rest upright facing southwest about 215m northeast of where it originally departed the right side of the road.
V1, the Nissan Xterra, was driven by a 51-year old female who was coded for non-incapacitating injuries and transported to a hospital. The driver reported that she was commuting from a twelve-hour work shift to her home traveling at the speed limit. She told the researcher that she was tired and that she fell asleep while driving. She said she woke up when she heard the noise and felt the vehicle traveling in the right side ditch. She said she tried to regain control and steer the vehicle back to her left while she was braking. She added that she was able to get the vehicle back on the road but she was not able to control the vehicle before it crossed the road and left it on the left side and began to roll over and came to rest upright after a lengthy distance.