This two-vehicle crash occurred in the early evening hours on a weekday in the middle of a four-way intersection. Both segments of the intersection were two-way, two-lane roadways. The bituminous roadways were dry, straight and level with a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). All four directions of the intersection were controlled by stop signs. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash and traffic flow was normal.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Volvo V70, was heading west on the roadway approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Mazda Protégé, was heading south on the roadway also approaching the intersection. The front of V1 contacted the left front of V2. The vehicles then struck again slightly based on visible damage. Vehicle one rotated counter clockwise approximately 10 degrees before coming to final rest in the westbound lane. Vehicle two also rotated counter clockwise approximately 10 degrees before coming to final rest in the northbound lane. Vehicle one was moved under its own power after the crash, but was ultimately towed due to fluid leakage. Vehicle two was towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a 78 year-old female, suffered non-incapacitating injuries as a result of the crash and was taken to the hospital for treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A complete interview was obtained from this driver via telephone. She was trying to find a short cut to the pharmacy. She relayed that she had come to a complete stop at the stop sign and never saw the other vehicle until it was too late. She said that her sightline was clear and there were no obstructions of her view. She claimed that she was well rested, and had not participated in any strenuous physical activity. The driver related that she was in good health but was taking medication for her heart and memory as well as vitamins. She claimed that this was not her first time on the roadway, but she does not drive on it often. The driver stated that her vehicle was in proper working condition.
The driver of V2, a 54 year-old female, suffered non-incapacitating injuries and was taken to the hospital for treatment. There was one other occupant in the vehicle located in the right front passenger seat that also had non-incapacitating injuries and was transported to the hospital for treatment. A complete interview was obtained from this driver in the presence of her lawyer. She claimed that she came to a complete stop at the intersection before attempting to make a left. As she entered the intersection she noticed the other vehicle coming at full speed and there was no way to avoid the crash. She claimed that she was in good health and was not fatigued. She was not taking any medication, however she did take omega-3 daily. The driver claimed that she was very familiar with her surroundings and that her vehicle was in proper working condition.