The crash occurred at an intersection of an east/west roadway and a north/south roadway that terminated at the intersection in the southbound direction. The north/south was an undivided three-lane roadway and the east/west roadway was an undivided four-lane roadway. The skies were dark and cloudy with light snow flurries and the roads were wet on this early morning weekday at dawn. The posted speed was 56 kmph (35 mph) in the north/south direction and 56 kmph (35 mph) in the east/west direction. The intersection was controlled by a traffic signal. Traffic was moderate in this rural area during this early commuting hour.
V1, a 2000 Honda Civic four-door sedan, was driven by a 27 year-old male. He stated that he had just left home one minute prior to the crash intending to go to work. He was traveling westbound in lane 2 at a rate of 56 kmph (35 mph) as he approached the intersection. The driver stated that as he got nearer to the intersection the light turned green. Prior to entering the intersection, he noticed V2, a 2000 Pontiac Grand Prix 4-door sedan, traveling south in lane two at a rate of 40 to 56 kmph (25 to 35 mph) also approaching the intersection from his right. When he realized that V2 was not slowing down for the light, he slammed on his brakes and steered left in an attempt to avoid a collision. As V1 skidded into the intersection, V2 struck the right side of V1 with the front of V2. The force of the collision caused V1 to rotate 90 degrees clockwise and to the left across the intersection. The left rear of V1 struck V3, a 2003 Ford Mustang convertible, which was stopped in the eastbound lane one, in the front left corner. V1 then came to rest across the eastbound lanes 7.4 meters west of the intersection. The driver was transported for injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2, the Pontiac Grand Prix, was driven by a 41 year-old female. She stated that she had left work 15 minutes prior to the crash intending to pick-up her daughter when the crash occurred. She stated that she was traveling south in lane one at a rate of 40 kmph (25 mph) intending to turn left at the intersection. She stated that the light at the intersection was green when she approached and entered the intersection. As she began to turn left through the intersection, a vehicle suddenly crossed her path in the westbound direction. Unable to respond in time to avoid a crash, the front of V2 crashed into the right side of V1. The driver was not injured or transported.
V3, the Ford Mustang, was driven by a 28 year-old male. He stated that he had left home 30 minutes prior to the crash on his way to work. He had been traveling eastbound in lane one and when he neared the intersection the traffic signal was red. Moments after stopping at the intersection he saw V1 coming at him, seemingly out-of-control. Unable to avoid a crash he braced himself as the left rear portion of V1 struck the front left portion of V3. The driver of V3 did not see the previous crash that caused V1 to lose control. The driver of V3 witnessed that the light was red for traffic traveling north and south directions (direction of V1 and V3). The driver was not injured or transported.
Associated factors for the driver include wet roads and light snow.