The crash occurred in the eastbound lane of an intersection of two rural 2-lane, 2-way, straight, bituminous roadways. The east-west roadway had no traffic controls but the north-south roadway was controlled by stop signs on both sides of the intersection. At the time of the weekday, midmorning crash, it was daylight, cloudy and the roadways were dry. The posted speed limits for eastbound traffic went from 80kph (50mph) west of the intersection to 64kph (40mph) east of the intersection.
V1, a 1998 Ford Taurus solely occupied by a 16 year-old male driver, was northbound in lane one of the roadway described above approaching the intersection. A non-contact vehicle was already stopped in lane 1, northbound, at the stop sign ahead of V1. V2, a 1999 Dodge Stratus occupied by a 45 year-old female driver and a 21 year-old male passenger, were eastbound in lane 1 of the roadway described above approaching the same intersection. V1 slowed as he approached the intersection and stopped for approximately 1 second behind the non-contact vehicle at the stop sign then passed it on the left and then turned right at the intersection. The driver of V2 had little time to react as V1 came into her lane. V2, front, contacted V1, left, then the vehicles "side slapped" with the right side of V2 contacting the left side of V1. V1 continued across the intersection and came to rest on the westbound shoulder of the westbound lane east of the intersection facing east. V2 went left and came to rest in the northbound lane north of the intersection-facing north. Both occupants of V2 were transported. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 stated that he was trying to get out of state to see his cousin, turned right at the intersection and didn't see V2. He did not mention the fact that he was driving a stolen vehicle and was unfamiliar with the area.
The driver of V2 stated that she was going east at about 45mph taking a stray dog to the Humane Society with the help of her son (the passenger) when she saw the non-contact vehicle stopped at the intersection ahead. She slowed a little because she is familiar with the intersection and knows it can be hazardous. She didn't see V1 until it was in the intersection just ahead of her. She locked up the brakes and tried to steer left but did not have enough time to avoid V1.