The crash occurred off the right side of a two-lane undivided roadway that curved left in the westbound direction with a 3 percent downhill slope. The right shoulder banked at 6.5 percent downward. The posted speed limit was 48 kmph (30 mph), the skies were cloudy and the road was bituminous and dry. This was a well-traveled road in a rural area of homes and across from a church. The crash occurred during the early afternoon on a holiday weekend. The Police Accident Report incorrectly reported a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph).
V1, a 2006 Jeep Commander utility vehicle, was traveling in the westbound lane. The driver began to pull onto the right shoulder, as he was passing out. The vehicle crested the hill and continued to veer right, breaking a signpost 4 meters right of lane one with the front right portion of V1. V1 continued one-half meter forward and struck a telephone pole 3.8 meters right of lane one with the front center portion of V1. V1 was repelled back 2.6 meters before coming to rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
V1 was driven by a 71-year-old male. The driver stated that he had left church a few minutes prior to the crash and was on his way to meet his wife for brunch. He was traveling at a speed of 40 kmph (25 mph) west in lane one when he had a sudden gas pain in his abdomen. Fearing the pain might get worse, he began braking and steering right onto the shoulder. He remembered nothing from that point until after the vehicle came to rest. He stated that he felt like he had just come out of anesthesia and got out of the vehicle uninjured. The driver was transported for observation but was uninjured from the crash.
A witness driving an unknown distance behind V1 stated that he saw V1 travel up a small hill, appear to decelerate (does not remember seeing brake lights or signal lights), began to steer right at the crest of the hill toward the right shoulder, then erratically drive to the right partially off the right side of the road into a telephone pole. V1 bounced back a few feet where it came to rest off the road and on the shoulder. When the witness reached V1, the driver was slumped over the steering wheel passed out.