This single-vehicle crash occurred on a five-lane, divided roadway. This roadway was dry, straight, with two-lanes in each direction with a center left turn lane at the intersection. Further east after the intersection there were just two lanes in each direction divided by a raised brick curbed median and trees. The posted speed limit was 64 kmph (40 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during nighttime hours with moderate traffic in the eastbound travel direction.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Ford Mustang with one occupant, was eastbound in lane one going straight. The vehicle was driving through a four-leg intersection. On the southeast side of the road was a sprinkler, sprinkling water into lane one. V1 hit the water and started to fishtail into lane two. The driver started to tap the brakes and let off of them and steered to the right to avoid a collision. V1 traveled a total of 56.8 meters (186 feet) and drove up the brick median curb. V1 at this point started to rotate counterclockwise up the brick median curb and with its right front corner impacted a tree branch. Still rotating counterclockwise leading with its right side, V1 impacted the brick median curb with the right rear tire and rim. V1 then rode up the brick median curb and impacted another tree's branches with its right side. V1 came to rest on its wheels facing northwest against the second tree. Vehicle one was towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1.
The driver of V1, a twenty year-old female, was driving from work to home. She stated she was well rested, drives this roadway daily and is very familiar with the vehicle, which is her mother's. The driver stated she is in good health and takes an unspecified birth control pill everyday. The driver also stated she had stopped at a red light at the intersection and when the light turned, she proceeded straight and hit the water from the sprinkler. The vehicle dynamics suggest the vehicle was traveling very fast when it hit the water. This was due to the length of fishtailing, 56.8 meters (186 feet), and running off the left side of the roadway. The vehicle's tires were all bald with a tread depth of 1-2 mm (1-3/32"). The driver stated that a friend was in the adjacent #2 travel lane, so it was reasoned that they were racing and aggressive driving was coded as a factor for this driver. The investigating officer also indicated aggressive driving was a factor for this driver.