This two-vehicle crash occurred in the afternoon of a weekday in the middle of a 4-way intersection. The intersection consisted of a multi-lane roadway and a 2-lane service drive. The main thoroughfare is an east/west undivided six-lane roadway without any traffic controls and the service drive runs north/south with stop signs posted for each direction. The bituminous roadways were dry, straight, and level with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The traffic flow was light at this intersection and the weather conditions were clear and daylight.
V1, a 1997 Ford Explorer XL with one occupant, was northbound in lane one stopped at the intersection where it intended to go straight. V2, a 2004 Dodge Grand Caravan with one occupant, was westbound in lane one approaching this intersection intending to change lanes before it approached a secondary intersection. Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the front of V2 struck the right of V1. Following the collision, V1 spun clockwise 200 degrees and came to final in the northwest corner of the intersection facing southwest. V2's post impact travel continued west, off the northwest corner of the intersection, and came to final rest on the grassy roadside facing northwest. Both vehicles were towed from the scene but only V2 received disabling damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a 38-year-old male, was transported with non-incapacitating injuries. He was stopped at this intersection waiting for traffic to clear when allegedly a westbound vehicle slowed down and waived this driver across the intersection. This said he assumed the intersection was clear and proceeded to drive straight. He never saw V2 until the two collided.
The driver of V2, a 31-year-old female, was transported for treatment of non-incapacitating injuries. She stated she was traveling west in lane one and intended to change lanes so she glanced to her side mirror and looked to her left only to discover there was a black car in the lane to her left. Once she returned her attention forward, she saw V1 speed across her path. She said the vehicle she struck was only about five feet away from her when she first saw it and she is not sure if she applied the brakes before the two vehicles collided.