The crash occurred in the middle of a four-way intersection. There was one each southbound/northbound non-physically divided lanes and one each eastbound/westbound non-physically divided lanes. Curbside parking was permitted on each side of all travel lanes. Vehicle two's southbound direction of travel did not have any traffic control devices allowing free movement through the intersection while V1's westbound direction had a posted standard stop sign controlling the movement through the intersection. The posted speed limits were as follows: 56 kmph (35 mph) for V1 and 30 kmph (48 mph) V2. The bituminous covered roadways were dry, level, and straight and there were no adverse weather conditions. The crash took place on a weekday during the late night dark hours; standard overhead streetlights were used to illuminate the roads. There were no noticeable defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.
Vehicle one, a 1990 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, was traveling westbound on the two-way roadway and entered the intersection where it contacted with its front the left side of vehicle two, a 2001 Lincoln Navigator SUV, traveling southbound through the same intersection. After the initial impact, V1 traveled several feet while rotating counter-clockwise and contacted with its right rear side the left rear side of V2 and came to final rest facing northeastward. V2, after the impact(s) also traveled several feet rotating clockwise where it came to final rest facing southwestward. Both vehicles suffered severe damages and were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
The driver of V1, a 30-year old female and only occupant, said he was traveling westbound on this frequently traveled road. She didn't remember seeing the stop sign posted on the corner and asked, did they just put that there? She never stopped before entering the intersection and mentioned the dark roadway conditions, although she was 'not blaming the crash on the dark' conditions. She'd just left the store 20-minutes ago where she'd got something to eat. Her travel speed was not very fast because she's afraid to travel very fast, it makes me feel uncomfortable and stated how sometimes the vehicle behind her honk their horns because she goes so slow, however it keeps me from getting into accidents. I will admit, she said, that I'm not the best driver and sometimes I daydream and focus my attention elsewhere. But I manage, she said, like just before the crash I was adjusting the radio. She was transported to the hospital directly from the scene with no-life threatening injuries.
The driver of V2, a 47-year old male, said he was traveling southbound approximately 56 kmph (35 mph). It's dark but you can see that there's no stop sign for my direction, so I continued traveling at a steady speed through the intersection. I didn't see the other vehicle (V1) until right before we crashed. I can see the stop sign, why couldn't she? She was going too fast, he said. He was also transported directly from scene to the hospital with non-life threatening injuries.