This single-vehicle crash occurred on a jersey barrier-divided trafficway. The southbound lanes are curved to the right (the radius of curvature is 1786 meters and the superelevation is six percent), level and consist of two through lanes. This roadway was wet at the time of the crash. The speed limit for this roadway is 89 kmph (55 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Hyundai Accent, was southbound in lane one. A non-contact vehicle (NCV) was southbound in lane two. The NCV moved into lane one in front of V1. The driver of V1 applied the brakes and abruptly steered left to avoid the NCV. V1 rotated counterclockwise and traveled off the left side of the roadway. The front and then the back of V1 struck the jersey barrier. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
The driver of V1, a thirty-seven-year-old female, was traveling, with two young girls, from a friend's house to return the rental car she was driving. This driver was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle and passengers. She travels this route weekly. This driver stated that she applied the brakes and felt the ABS engage but was not slowing enough so she steered left.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Hyundai Accent, was southbound in lane one. A non-contact vehicle (NCV) was southbound in lane two. The NCV moved into lane one in front of V1. The driver of V1 applied the brakes and abruptly steered left to avoid the NCV. V1 rotated counterclockwise and traveled off the left side of the roadway. The front and then the back of V1 struck the jersey barrier. V1 was towed due to damage.
The driver of V1, a thirty-seven-year-old female, was traveling, with two young girls, from a friend's house to return the rental car she was driving. This driver was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle and passengers. She travels this route weekly. This driver stated that she applied the brakes and felt the ABS engage but was not slowing enough so she steered left.