This crash occurred in the northbound lane of a two-lane undivided roadway. There was one southbound and one northbound lane. This straight, level, and bituminous roadway had a posted speed limit of 80 kmph (50 mph). It was the early evening on a weekend night. The roads were slick and icy due to a steady snow coming down. Traffic flow was light.
V1, a 1999 Pontiac Grand Am 4-door with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane one. V2, a 2006 Nissan Quest minivan with two occupants, was traveling northbound in lane one. V1 was going straight in the southbound lane when it skidded, crossing over the left lane line into the northbound lane. V2 was traveling north in the northbound lane. The front of V2 struck the right rear side of V1 in the northbound lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the Pontiac Grand Am, was driven by a 47-year-old female who reported "A" injuries and was transported to a medical facility from the scene of the accident. The driver stated that she was traveling south on the roadway on her way to work. She said that she left her home with plenty of time to get there because she was uncomfortable driving in the snow and wanted to make sure she had enough time to drive as slow as she needed to. All of a sudden, she felt the vehicle starting to lose control and skid. She did not want to step on the brakes so instead she just steered the wheel to the right in hopes of regaining control. It was very dark on the roadway and the snow made the visibility worse. The driver said she was not able to see where she was skidding and when she felt the impact she had no idea what hit her.
V2, the Nissan Quest, was driven by a 58-year old female who reported "C" injuries and was transported to a medical facility from the scene of the accident. Her passenger, a 63-year-old female, also reported "C" injuries and was also transported to a medical facility from the scene. The driver was heading north in lane one in the northbound lane when V1 skidded into her lane. The driver of this vehicle did not supply an interview.