This crash occurred in a 4-way intersection with traffic control signals in all directions. The roadway was wet asphalt. The northbound lanes had a downhill grade of 3 percent. The east/west lanes were level. All roadways were straight with a posted speed of 72 kmph (45 mph). The weather was cloudy. The crash occurred in the early afternoon.
Vehicle #1, a 2004 Pontiac Grand Am 4-door, was traveling north in lane #2, intending to go straight through the intersection. The driver, a 63-year old female, stated that the traffic light was blinking red. The driver decelerated to a rolling stop while looking in both directions and noticed a vehicle traveling westbound towards the intersection. The westbound vehicle (V2) was a 1999 Ford Taurus sedan that was decelerating for its red light. As V2 came to the intersection, the light for east/west traffic changed to green. The driver of V2 then accelerated into the intersection at which time its left rear side was struck by the front of V1. At impact, V2 rotated 2 complete counterclockwise rotations, coming to final rest facing northwest in the left turn lane on the west side of the intersection. V1 came to final rest facing northwest also, still in the intersection. The driver and occupant of V1 were not injured and their vehicle was found to be drivable. The driver of V2 suffered minor injuries and refused to be transported from the scene. His vehicle was towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 reported being in fair health and was taking medications prescribed by her doctor. She stated that she wears corrective lenses for a hyperopic condition (far sightedness). She stated that she and her daughter had gone to her sister's home to visit and were on their way home at the time of the crash. She stated that as they traveled north towards the intersection in lane #2, the traffic signal was blinking red. She stated that she decelerated to a stop and looked in both directions. She stated that she and her daughter noticed a vehicle traveling towards the intersection from their right. The driver stated it looked as if the vehicle was going to stop so she thought it was a four-way stop. She stated she started to accelerate into the intersection and her daughter yelled that the other vehicle was not stopping. After contact and final rest, the driver said she and her daughter went over to the other vehicle to check on the driver. She stated that there was another person at the vehicle that told them to go and wait at their vehicle. V1's EDR reading indicated that V1 did not come to a complete stop prior to accelerating into the intersection.
A 65-year-old male drove V2. He reported being in fair health and taking medications for a heart condition, diabetes, and a previous stroke. He stated he wears corrective lenses for reading only. He stated that as he traveled west in lane #2, he was decelerating to a stop because the traffic light was red. He stated that as he got near the intersection the traffic light changed to green so he accelerated. He stated he never saw any vehicles stop to the left side of the intersection. He reported that after contact his vehicle rotated two complete rotations to final rest. He stated his neck was giving him some pain but he did not want to be transported to an ER unit.