The crash occurred at the intersection of a primary arterial road that ran north/south (southeast to northwest) and a secondary road that ran east/west (southwest to northeast) in the area of the crash. The eastbound approach of the secondary road had a total of five lanes. Lane 1 was a right turn only lane, lane 2 was a through lane, lane 3 was a left turn only lane, and lanes 4 and 5 were both westbound through lanes. The westbound approach of the secondary road had a total of four lanes. Lane 1 was a right turn/through lane, lane 2 was a westbound through lane only, lane 3 was a left turn only lane, and lane 4 was an eastbound through lane. The intersection itself and the approaches to it on the secondary road were straight and level. The intersection was controlled by traffic light signals on colors with no pedestrian signal. A wide sidewalk bordered the northwest corner of the intersection. The speed limit on the east/west roadway was 72 kmph/45mph. Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight with cloud cover and dry. The crash occurred in the afternoon on a weekend with moderate traffic flow in an urban business section of town.
V1 was a 1994 Ford Ranger pickup truck traveling east on the secondary road in lane three. Its driver attempted to turn left on a solid green light when it was struck on the right side by V2, a 1999 Honda Accord 2-door coupe that was traveling through the same intersection westbound in lane two with a solid green light. V1 then tripped and rolled one-quarter turn to its left while rotating 90 degrees clockwise, coming to rest facing southeast on the sidewalk of the northwest corner of the intersection on its left side. V2 came to rest facing northwest about five meters west of impact. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1 was driven by a thirty year old belted male who was listed on the police report as having sustained possible injuries but was not transported to a medical facility. His passenger was similarly listed. He was on his way to a carwash to clean his vehicle. The driver stated through an interpreter that he saw V2 but "it looked like I had enough time."
V2 was driven by a twenty-one year old belted female who was also listed on the police report as having sustained possible injuries but was not transported to a medical facility. She was on her way home from visiting a very sick relative at a local hospital.