Case 2007-038
The crash occurred in the westbound lane of a two lane undivided east/west bound roadway near its intersection with a two lane north/southbound residential roadway. There was one lane in each direction of the dry, straight, level, dark (unlit), asphalt road that had a posted speed limit of 72 kph/45 mph. The crash occurred late on a weekend night while traffic was light under clear skies. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, a 1997 Pontiac Grand Am, two-door with two occupants was traveling westbound in lane one. V2, a 2006 Toyota Scion TC two-door with one occupant had stopped at the stop sign southbound in lane one before making a right turn into the westbound lane. V2 turned in front of V1 and was accelerating. V1 had been traveling at a high rate of speed and saw V2 turn. V1 braked with lockup in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid impact. The front end of V1 struck the rear of V2 (Event 1), which was pushed off the road to the right across a grass roadside. V2 rotated in a clockwise direction across the grass and struck a fence with its left side (Event 2) and continued through the fence before it came to rest facing northeast about 20 m from the first impact. V1 continued to skid westbound and came to rest facing west about 16 m west of the first impact. Both vehicles were towed from the scene.
V1, the Pontiac Grand Am, was driven by a 19-year old male. Neither he nor his passenger were injured. The driver admitted that he was traveling 97-113 kph (60-70 mph) while returning home from a friend's home. He said that as he approached the intersection he saw V2's headlights before it turned. He added that he hit his brakes and they locked up. He reported that after V2 turned he continued skidding before he struck the rear of V2 and then continued skidding after V2 went off the road. He denied an accusation by the police officer (in the presence of the researcher) that he was drag racing. He had no explanation of why he was traveling so fast when asked by the police and the researcher.
V2, the Toyota Scion, was driven by a 19-year old male who received non-incapacitating injuries and was transported to a hospital. The driver reported that he had just left home going to a friend's home. He said he had stopped at the northbound stop sign and looked to his left before turning right. He said he saw V1's headlights and thought that V1 was far enough away that had enough time to make his turn safely. After V2 turned right the driver was accelerating and glanced into his rearview mirror when he heard tires screeching. He said he did not hit his brakes but steered to the right to try to avoid being struck. He said that after he was pushed off the road his vehicle spun and struck the fence on the north side of the road.