This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, stop sign controlled intersection. Both roadways are straight and level and consist of two lanes in each direction and a left turn lane. This crash occurred during daylight hours in a residential area with no adverse atmospheric conditions and no sight line restrictions noted at the scene. There is one westbound and one eastbound lane. There is also one southbound and one northbound lane which is controlled by posted stop signs. The speed limit on both roadways is posted 40 kmph (25 mph).
Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Nissan Sentra 4 door sedan with one occupant, was traveling westbound and stopped to make a left turn. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Nissan Maxima 4 door sedan with one occupant, was traveling eastbound. V1 began to turn left and the front struck the front of V2. The vehicles came to rest in the intersection. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. The driver of V2 was transported from the scene due to injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a fifty three (53) year-old male, was traveling westbound and stopped at the intersection and then began to turn left. He said that he thought there was as stop sign for him and that he never saw the other car coming from the opposite direction. He said that he was looking to his left the entire time. He was on his way to his brother's house coming from work, for which he got off 30 minutes early today.
The driver of V2, a twenty nine (29) year old female, was on her way to work from her home. She was well rested, in good health and familiar with her vehicle. She drives on this roadway daily. This driver stated that she saw V1 stop and thought it was going to yield to her vehicle. She said that she saw V1 turn in front of her and applied the brakes in an effort to avoid a crash. She was not in a hurry and would have made it to work on time if she had not been involved in the crash. This driver travels this roadway daily to/from work.