This crash occurred mid-morning on a Friday. The location was an interstate freeway inside the city limits of a metropolitan city. The roadway was a divided concrete highway with five lanes in each direction. The center median was a concrete Jersey barrier and both outside shoulders were protected with Jersey barriers. Both inside lanes were HOV lanes with a narrow shoulder. The grade was negative for northbound traffic. The weather was clear, the road surface was dry and it was daylight. The posted speed limit was 97 kmph (60 mph).
Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Peterblit four-axle tractor pulling a Stellar three-axle empty container trailer, was traveling northbound in lane three at approximately the posted speed limit. Axle number 2 on the tractor was a drop axle and was not in use at this time. As V1 reached the area where the crash occurred the left front trailer dual wheel assembly came off axle number 5. The wheel assembly bounced up and over the center median and into the southbound lanes and struck the front of vehicle two (V2). The driver of V1 stated he felt the trailer drop. He looked in the rearview mirror and observed a large amount of dust behind near the center median. The driver moved right across to the outside lane and took the next exit. V1 stopped on the shoulder of the off-ramp. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Ford Econoline 4X2 Cargo Van, was traveling southbound in lane four. The driver observed the wheel assembly ahead in the roadway coming towards his vehicle. V2 slowed and veered left in an attempt to avoid the wheel assembly. The wheel assembly struck the right side front of V2. On impact the wheel assembly intruded through the windshield and into the passengers side. The passenger was fatally injured. V2 was towed due to damage.
The driver of V2, a 28 year-old male, was wearing a lap and shoulder belt. He received minor glass lacerations to his arms and legs and was transported to a medical facility for treatment. The driver was not interviewed, so no pre-crash information was obtained. The driver takes the medication Albuterol for a bronchial condition. The passenger, a 31 year-old male, was killed instantly.
Two witnesses were in agreement as to the events of the incident. Witness #1 was traveling ahead of V2. He stated he saw the wheel assembly bounce in front of his vehicle. It then bounced over his vehicle and came down in front of V2. Witness #2 was behind V2 and observed V2 brake and steer left in an attempt to avoid the wheel assembly.
The driver of V1, a 35 year-old male, was wearing a lap and shoulder belt and was not injured. He was well rested, had no major medical problems and was familiar with both the vehicle and the roadway. Motor Carrier Inspectors performed a level one inspection on V1. According to the Police Vehicle Examination Report the spindle nut keeper was installed backwards on the hub assembly of the wheel for the left axle 5. According to the level one inspection report the following information is known about the driver & vehicle: he was paid by the hour and had company provided driver training; the company was responsible for the truck & trailer brakes and vehicle maintenance. The rolldeck trailer did not carry a load at the time of the incident and both units had a combined weight of 18,371 kgs, or 40,500 lbs. Maintenance records for the trailer indicated that the same trailer axle wheel assembly had detached from the trailer three months prior to this crash. Upon inspection of the wheel assembly that had come off, it was determined that the spindle nut keeper was installed backwards on the hub assembly. The keeper is designed to keep the spindle nut from loosening. It is believed that the improper installation of the spindle nut keeper resulted in the wheel assembly detaching from the trailer. The driver log indicates his day started just about six hours prior to the time of the crash. The records indicate the three days prior to the crash the driver worked an average workday of 11.3 hours.