This two-vehicle rollover crash occurred in a four-legged, signal controlled intersection with pedestrian crosswalks, curbs and sidewalks present. The westbound approach was straight with an uphill +3.6 percent grade; it consisted of three straight lanes and a dedicated left turn lane that began 50 meters (164 feet) prior to the intersection. The eastbound approach curved right with a +3.3 percent super-elevation and a downhill -2.5 percent grade; it consisted of three straight lanes and a dedicated left turn lane that began 47 meters (154 feet) prior to the intersection. East/West traffic was divided by a raised concrete median. The posted speed limit was 72 kmph (45 mph) for both directions. Conditions were dry and dark with no overhead lighting. Setting was evening hours on a weekday.
Vehicle 1 was a 2000 Honda Accord two-door with two occupants traveling westbound in lane two. Vehicle 2 was a 2000 Ford Expedition large utility vehicle with five occupants traveling eastbound in lane four, the left turn lane. V2 proceeded to make a left turn in front of V1 at the intersection. V1 applied its brakes and left 15.9 meters (52 feet) of skid marks in the intersection prior to impacting the right plane of V2, with its front end (event 1). The force of V1 contacting the right rear of V2 caused V2 to rotate clockwise slightly and overturn (event 2) onto its left side, just prior to stopping. V1 rotated clockwise and came to rest in the westbound lanes facing north. V2 came to final rest on its left side facing southeast within 7 meters (23 feet) of V1. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1 was a 37-year-old male who was treated on-scene for airbag burns on his hands. He worked full time and was also a tri-athlete who exercised strenuously everyday. He and his wife had just left their home for a leisurely trip to the mall. They were talking about the day while traveling 80 kmph (50 mph) in lane two. He noticed V2 in the opposing left turn lane starting to turn several seconds before he entered the intersection. He hit the horn and locked up the brakes, but still contacted the right side of V2. His car spun around clockwise after impact and came to rest in the roadway. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.
The driver of V2 was a 33-year-old male who was not injured in the crash. He had just come from a neighboring town, where he picked up his nieces and nephews for an over-night visit. He was intending on stopping at the grocery store, then heading back home, which was a few blocks from the crash scene. He was driving straight in the left turn lane. He looked ahead of him to make sure traffic was clear; when he didn't see any cars coming, he proceeded to turn left. As he entered the intersection, he looked right and saw V1 "come darting out of nowhere at a high rate of speed." He said V1 made an inadequate attempt to avoid the crash, because he braked only and didn't try and steer left. V1 then hit his right side, causing them to rotate clockwise. Right before the vehicle stopped, "it just tipped over after coming up on two wheels." His vehicle was deemed not drivable because it was on its left side.