The three-vehicle rear-end crash occurred on a one-lane, northbound exit ramp from a five-lane, northbound highway. The ramp was straight, dry and of concrete construction. The exit ramp had an unknown positive grade at the points-of-impact. There were no traffic controls present. The posted speed limit is 96 kmph (60 mph). Traffic was congested at the time of the crash. This crash occurred during daylight hours with clear skies. The impacts occurred approximately 113 meters (370 feet) into the exit ramp from lane one. Northbound lane one leads into and terminates at the exit ramp.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Volvo Autohauler, with one occupant, was northbound in the first travel lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Jeep Liberty, with one occupant, was northbound in the first travel lane ahead of V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 2006 Ford Explorer, with two occupants, was northbound in the first travel lane ahead of V2. All three vehicles were on the exit ramp. V2 and V3 slowed for traffic ahead when the front of V1 impacted the back of V2. V2 was pushed forward and the front of V2 struck the back of V3. All three vehicles came to rest in the original travel lane ahead of the points-of-impact. Both V1 and V3 were driven from the scene without disabling damage. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a forty-eight year old male, was heading from work to deliver his payload. This driver had been driving for about thirty minutes, drives the route weekly and is familiar with the vehicle. The driver stated that V2 cut him off from the lane to his left and braked in front of him. He attempted to brake, but was unable to stop prior to striking V2.
The driver of V2, a forty-one year old female, was heading home from visiting relatives in another state. This driver had been driving for about two hours, drives the route rarely (twice a year) and is familiar with the vehicle. The driver stated she was stopping behind V3 when she looked into her rear-view mirror and saw V1 approaching. She steered to the right, but was not able to avoid the collision.
The driver of V3, a fifty-seven year old male, was heading from his office to a meeting. This driver had been driving for about thirty minutes. This was his second time on road, both in the last week and had bought the vehicle two days earlier. The driver stated he was stopping behind traffic when he heard the impact of V1 and V2. He did not see the other vehicles prior to impact and took no evasive action.