This two-vehicle crash occurred in the morning of a weekday in the middle of an intersection in an urban/downtown business district. The intersection consists of two multi-lane, one-way roadways controlled by a properly functioning traffic signal. The main thoroughfare is a two-lane northbound-only street and the intersecting road is a four-lane eastbound-only street. The roads are straight, flat, and have a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The road was dry and the weather condition was clear and daylight.
V1, a 2004 Pontiac Bonneville SE with one occupant, was eastbound in lane two approaching the intersection where it intended to go straight. V2, a 2004 Mazda 3 with one occupant, was stopped facing north in lane one waiting for the signal to turn green where it intended to go straight. As V1 approached the intersection it failed to stop when the light turned red for its direction. The signal turned green for V2 and it began to go straight. Both vehicles entered the intersection at same time and the front of V1 struck the left side of V2. V1's driver was not injured nor was the car towed, but V2 was towed due to disabling damage and its driver was transported for minor injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1 is a 72-year-old male that works as a Videographer for a marketing company 50 hours each week and has a medical condition that requires frequent blood testing. He was driving to the hospital this morning for a scheduled blood test when this crash occurred. The driver reports that as he was driving toward the hospital he felt pain in his chest (possible angina), and reached for some pills in his shirt pocket when the next thing he remembers is being in a collision with another car. He does not remember going through an intersection and he cannot recall how he was involved in this car crash.
The driver of V2 is a 41-year-old female that was driving downtown from one building to another this morning when she was involved in this crash. She states she was traveling north in lane one of this one-way street and stopped at the intersection for a red light. She said there was very little traffic at that time and that the SUV in front of her was the only other vehicle on her road. Once the signal for her direction turned green, she and the SUV in front of her began to go straight through the intersection. She said the SUV passed through the intersection, but once she entered it, she was struck in the left side by an eastbound car. She said she never saw the eastbound car before the crash and had no way of avoiding the collision.