This crash occurred on a four lane positively divided roadway in the southbound lanes. The roadway was straight and dry with a posted speed limit of 105KMPH (65MPH). There were rumble strips on both sides of the two southbound lanes. Traffic flow was normal for that time of day. The weather was cloudy. This crash occurred on a weekend morning. No PAR is available for this crash.
Vehicle # 1, a 1997 GMC g-series 15 passenger van, was traveling south in the curb lane when it proceeded to pass a slower vehicle. Vehicle #1 went into the passing lane, went off the roadway to the left over the rumble strip, the driver overcorrected and the vehicle went into a clockwise rotation. Vehicle #1 impacted with the ground on the right side of the roadway and tripped over the guardrail, rolling ¼ turn to it's left, landing on its left side facing in a north easterly direction. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
Vehicle # 1, The GMC Van, was driven by a belted female passenger who was taken from the vehicle after the rescue crews used the Jaws of Life. She was airlifted to an area trauma center. An interview was obtained from a passenger in the van, the driver's sister. This interviewee stated that the driver had proceeded to pass the slower uninvolved vehicle and could have had problem with the steering mechanism of the vehicle. She stated it was supposed to have been fixed weeks before, but they were still having problems with the steering. There were belted 3 adult male passengers who were treated at the scene. The interviewee was transported to an area hospital, treated and released. Another belted female passenger was also transported to an area hospital treated an released. There were 4 children in the van, two in child seats, one in a booster seat and one belted who were not injured.
It should be noted at this time, the researcher found a teddy bear, on the median of the four-lane highway, approximately 15 meters prior to the van going off road to the left. The researcher spoke to a 3-year-old child, from the van, and this child stated she dropped her teddy out the window and screamed before the crash. This caused the driver to be distracted from completing the passing of the uninvolved vehicle.
At the scene, Police did not consider alcohol or illegal drugs to be a factor in this crash.