This single-vehicle crash occurred on an exit ramp from an interstate bypass highway. This roadway is divided by a grassy median and northbound traffic lanes consist of two through lanes. The right exit lane consists of a single through lane. This roadway is level, curves right, and has a posted speed limit of 105 kmph (65 mph). The exit ramp has an advisory speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred in the late morning hours on a weekday with moderate traffic flow.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Chrysler Sebring convertible with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane one, approaching the exit ramp. V1 continued northbound in lane one and traveled beyond the safe exiting point. The driver of V1 decided late to take the exit and steered to the right to travel across the gore and get into the exit lane. V1 began to rotate clockwise in the gore and impacted a delineator post with its front. V1 continued to rotate clockwise across the exit lane and departed that roadway on the right. V1 impacted a second delineator post with its left side and continued to rotate clockwise as it traveled into a ditch. V1 impacted the ditch with its front and rotated clockwise before coming to final rest in the ditch, facing southwest. Just before coming to final rest V1's left rear wheel impacted the ground bending and twisting the wheel at the axle about 20 degrees. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1.
The driver of V1, a sixty-six-year-old female, was going from the bank to get her car serviced. She stated that prior to the crash, she had been on her cell phone with her son and had hung up just before the exit that she needed. She didn't realize that it was the correct exit until she looked over and saw the store where she goes to get her vehicle serviced. She was well rested and very comfortable with her vehicle, but drives this route rarely. She has concerns about personal relationships and said they were probably on her mind at the time of the crash. She suffers from high blood pressure, COPD, arthritis and asthma and takes Metoprolol, Albuterol, and Lisinopril on a regular basis. She had also taken Aleve in the previous day and uses an oxygen tank at home. The police report listed wearing of corrective lenses restriction as being complied with, but the driver stated to the researcher that she did not have them on at the time of the crash.