This two-vehicle crash occurred during early evening hours, it was dark but in a well-lit midtown intersection. The road is 5-lane, two-way, median-divided and bituminous, except for the center left turn lane (lane 3), which is concrete. The traffic is controlled by on-colors lights with pedestrian controls, and the roadway has a speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). The roadway was dry, with piled snow on the side and median and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one (V1) a 2003 Ford Explorer SUV driven by a twenty five (25) year old female was westbound in lane 3, which is a left-turn only lane. Vehicle two (V2) a 2004 Kia Sedona minivan driven by a thirty nine (39) year old female with two passengers was traveling east in the number two lane. V1's intent was to turn left and go south. V1 had been stopped, waiting for eastbound traffic to clear. The traffic light turned yellow, and V1 driver saw V2, but felt vehicle two (V2) was far enough back so V1 would clear the intersection. When the driver of V1 realized that V2 was not stopping, she accelerated. V2 was eastbound in lane 2. The driver of V2 does not remember seeing V1, she just remembers swerving to the left trying to avoid impact. The front of V2 contacted the right rear of V1, causing V1 to rotate counter clockwise. V1 spun up onto the median of the cross street south of the intersection . V1 came to rest south of the intersection, half on the median, and half in southbound lane 1. V2 spun clockwise, and came to rest in the eastbound lanes of the intersection, facing northwest. V1 drove away from the scene, but V2 was towed with moderate damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2 was driven by a 39-year old female with 11 and 7-year old males restrained properly in the 2nd row. She takes medication for kidney problems. This driver was familiar with the vehicle and the road, and comfortable with the passengers. They had just left a restaurant after eating dinner, and were headed home. She was conversing with her children before the crash, but she did not think this was a distracting factor. There were no other contributing factors for this driver. The driver of V2 takes the medication Lisinopril.