The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. The east/west road was a four-lane undivided roadway with two lanes in each direction. This was a straight, slush covered, bituminous roadway with a positive slope of 2.5 percent and a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). The north/south roadway other was an undivided roadway with one lane in each direction. This was a straight, level, icy, and bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 40 kmph (25 mph). The north/south roadway was controlled by stop signs; the east/west roadway had no traffic control device. It was early afternoon on a weekday and the sky was clear.
V1, a 1994 Buick Regal four-door with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane one. V2, a 1996 Chevrolet Lumina four-door with two occupants, was traveling westbound in lane one. The driver of V1 stated that he was approaching the intersection with the intention of turning left. As he neared the stop sign, he started to apply the brakes. He stated that the brakes engaged and the pedal hit the floor. He said that he slid on the ice into the intersection. The driver of V2 stated that she saw V1 sliding and thought it was not going to stop in time. She changed lanes to the left and tried to avoid V1 but could not. The front of V1 contacted the right side of V2. The impact spun V2 around in a counterclockwise direction. V1 came to final rest in the southbound roadway. V2 departed the roadway on the south side and came to final rest facing east. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the Buick Regal, was driven by a 22-year old male who reported no injuries. He advised that he was coming from home and was on his way to school. He advised that he had been traveling between 34-48 kmph (21-30 mph) prior to trying to stop.
V2, the Chevrolet Lumina, was driven by a 52-year old female who reported minor injuries. She advised that she had just left from shopping and was on her way home. She advised that she had been traveling between 50-64 kmph (31-40 mph) prior to the crash.