The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. One roadway had two northbound lanes and two southbound lanes with a bituminous surface. The other roadway had two eastbound and two westbound lanes with the west leg having a loose stone and an advisory speed of 56 kmph (35 mph) and the east leg having a bituminous surface. Both roadways were four-lane, two way roadways with a level grade and a posted speed of 89 kmph (55 mph).
V1, a 2005 Dodge Neon four door with one occupant was traveling eastbound in lane two. V1 was intending to go straight through the intersection. V2, a 2006 Chevrolet Cobalt two door with three occupants was traveling northbound in lane two. V2 was intending to go straight through the intersection. V3 a 2004 Pontiac Grand Prix four door with one occupant was traveling westbound in lane one. V3 was stopped at the intersection waiting to turn right. The driver of V1 stated that she looked both ways and did not see V2 so she proceeded through the intersection. The driver of V2 stated that he saw V1 approaching the intersection and slowed down. He thought that V1 would stop at the stop sign. The driver of V2 stated that V1 did a rolling stop. The driver of V2 attempted to avoid V1 by applying the brakes. The front of V2 contacted the right of V1, both vehicles rotated and the right of V1 contacted the left of V2. V1 then was sent into V3 and the front of V1 contacted the left of V3 before they all came to final rest in the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the Dodge Neon, was a 19-year old female who reported no injuries and refused treatment. She stated that she had just left home and was on her way to work. She stated that she had stopped more than ten seconds at the intersection and then proceeded at 2-16 kmph (1-10 mph). She did not attempt any avoidance actions.
V2, the Chevrolet Cobalt, was a 39-year old male who reported minor injuries and was transported to a local trauma facility. He advised that he and the passengers had just left home and were on their way to Wal-Mart. He advised that he had been traveling between 67-80 kmph (41-50 mph) when he made the evasive action to avoid contacting V1. He was unable to stop in time.
V3, the Pontiac Grand Prix, was driven by a 21-year old female who reported no injuries and refused treatment. She stated that she was coming from work and was on her way to her boyfriend's house. She stated that she had been stopped at the intersection and never preceded prior to being struck.
V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. Therefore, no Critical Precrash Event or Critical Reason was coded to the driver of the Grand Prix.