This two-vehicle crash occurred in the westbound path of a 4-way intersection. The intersection is controlled by pre-timed signals with left-turn-only arrows for all four directions. The main thoroughfare runs east and west with two lanes for each direction and an additional lane at the intersection for left turns. The intersecting secondary road runs north and south with one lane for each direction and expands at the intersection for left turns. All four roadways have a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph), are bituminous, and were dry at the time of the crash. This crash happened during a weekday afternoon with a low-level amount of traffic and the weather conditions were cloudy and daylight.
V1, a 1992 Jeep Cherokee with two occupants, was westbound in lane two approaching the intersection. V2, a 2000 Toyota Camry with two occupants, was stopped in the left-turn lane at the north end of the intersection waiting for her signal to turn green. Once V2's left-turn arrow changed to green, she entered the intersection and began to turn left, however, V1 failed to stop for its red signal and entered the intersection at the same time. The front right corner of V1 struck the front right corner of V2. V2 rotated slightly clockwise and rolled backward before coming to final rest in the northeast corner of the intersection. After the initial impact V1 rolled left 4-quarter turns and came rest on its wheels in the middle of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a 42-year-old male, was uninjured in the crash (his passenger was transported with minor injuries). He was driving his sister's vehicle for the first time when he was involved in this crash. He said he was bringing a friend home when he fell asleep and crashed the truck. He could not recall many details about the crash or the events leading to the crash, other than what his passenger had told him. All he knew was that he drove through a red light and struck another car. He remembers waking up while the Jeep was rolling over. This driver said he had not slept in "about a day and a half" but did not clearly state why he was up for so long. Some of his answers were confusing, contradicting, and did not make sense. He said his sister had a seizure two days before the crash and that is why he was driving her vehicle but he was not sure if it was on his mind or if it contributed to his sleeplessness. He also stated that he did not have a car but that he drives through that intersection everyday.
The driver of V2, a 40-year-old female, was transported along with her passenger for treatment of minor injuries. She stated that she left her office that afternoon with a co-worker for their lunch break when they were involved in this crash. She said she was traveling south and stopped at this intersection waiting to make a left turn. She said she was third in line behind a passenger car and a mail truck. Once their signal turned green, all the vehicles slowly moved forward and began to turn east. This driver admitted she was probably talking to her passenger during this sequence but she was alert enough to see a westbound SUV driving toward her. She immediately put her foot on the brake pedal and stopped in the middle of the intersection. Her vehicle was struck in the front right corner by the SUV causing her car to spin and come to final rest in the northeast corner of the intersection.