This single-vehicle crash occurred on an east/west mountain road with warning (chevron) signs for a left curve for eastbound travel. The roasdway was undivided with one lane in each direction on a dry, downhill, bituminous road. The vehicle ran off the right side of the road in a gravel pull off. The posted speed limit was 64 kmph (40 mph) and there was moderate traffic flow. Rumble strips were noted on the outside edges of the traffic lanes and in the center of the roadway.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 GMC Jimmy with two occupants, was towing a trailer with a small boat, was eastbound in lane one. V1 had just left a straight part of the road and continued straight on the left curve. V1 ran off the right side of the road across the rumble strip and traveled onto a gravel pull-off. The driver applied the brakes, which locked up. V1 impacted a delineator post with it front before running down an embankment. V1 started to rollover leading with it's left side leading, which caused the trailer to separate from the vehicle. V1 continued to rollover impacting several large rocks. V1 rolled a total of four quarter turns coming to rest on its wheels in a creek at the bottom of the embankment, facing north. The trailer and boat came to rest on the side of the embankment next to a tree close to V1's final rest. V1 was towed from the scene and both occupants were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1.
The driver of V1, a forty-eight year old male, was driving from a camping site he had been at for two days and was going home. He stated he has sleep apnea and did not take his CPAP machine with him and only slept three hours in the last twenty-four hours. He stated he dozed off and woke up and saw the curve coming up. He tried to steer the vehicle back into his lane and hit some gravel, which caused the vehicle to continue straight. He is very familiar with the vehicle, passenger and cargo and drives this roadway monthly. The driver stated he had a mild heart attack, eight months ago and since then, he now has diabetes, high blood pressure and high cholesterol. He takes Metoprolol, Lorazepam, Clopindogrel, Simvastatin, Lisinopril, Metformin, Glipizide, Fenafibrate, Lotatadine, Baby aspirin, Nitroglycerin and Plavix on a regular basis.