This two-vehicle crash occurred on an undivided four-leg intersection, controlled by traffic lights with pedestrian signals. On the south side of the intersection for northbound traffic, there was one right turn lane, three through lanes and one left turn lane. On the north side of the intersection for southbound traffic, there were three through lanes and one left turn lane. The roadway was straight, dry, bituminous, downhill for northbound, uphill for southbound traffic with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). Traffic flow was congested, with stop and go activity, due to afternoon rush hour traffic.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Honda Civic four-door sedan with one occupant, was northbound in lane five, the left turn lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Chrysler Town and Country four-door sedan with one occupant, was southbound in lane three going straight. The light was green for both drivers and they both entered the intersection at the same time. Driver of V2, to avoid the crash, applied her brakes and steered to the right before impacting with the front of her vehicle to the right side of V1. V1 rotated counterclockwise off the southwest side of the intersection and impacted a traffic light pole with its front. V1 bounced off the pole and came to rest on its wheels facing southwest on the southwest corner of the intersection. V2 rotated slightly clockwise and came to rest on its wheels facing southwest in the middle of the intersection. V1 was towed from the scene due to moderate frontal damage. V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1 and 0 kmph for V2.
A 70 year-old female was driving V1, the Honda Civic and reported no injuries. She stated she had left a grocery store and was heading home after four hours at the Zoo, where she volunteers. She stated she was turning left on a green arrow; however, the other driver and witneses refuted this. She is retired, was well rested and takes the following medications on a regular basis: Estradiol, Folic Acid, Albuterol, Serevent, Flovent, Spironalactone, Vitamins, Movefree, MSM,, Aspirin and Dilantin. She is near-sighted, wearing her glasses and using a hearing aid.
A 48 year-old female was driving V2, the Chrysler Town and Country, and reported no injuries. She stated she just left home and was running errands. She stated she saw V1 start to go, then stop, and then proceeded with the turn. She said she applied the brakes to avoid the impact with V1. She was well rested, takes no medications and was wearing her contacts along with sunglasses because she is near sighted.