The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a four-legged intersection with a bush median. There was an east/west roadway controlled by stop signs. The north/south roadway was not controlled, and was divided by medians completely covered with bushes. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph) and the westbound lanes were on a 3% downhill grade. The southbound lanes were on a 2% downhill grade. Conditions were daylight and dry with cloudy skies. The setting was early afternoon hours on a weekday.
Vehicle one was a 2000 Toyota Corolla sedan stopped facing west at a stop sign in lane two. Vehicle two was a 2000 Dodge Dakota pickup traveling southbound in lane one. V1 began crossing straight across as V2 proceeded through the intersection. The right plane of V1 was impacted by the front of V2. V1 rotated 180 degrees before coming to rest in the intersection. V2 continued south of the intersection before coming to rest in lane one. Several minutes after the crash, V2 was rear-ended by another vehicle. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.
The Toyota Corolla (V1) was driven by a 25-year old male who was uninjured. He stated that he was returning to work from lunch. He pulled across an intersection with shrubbery in the median that was blocking his view. He realized at the last moment that he was about to get struck, and steered left, but could not avoid the crash. He estimated his travel and impact speeds to be 8 kmph (5 mph). The Toyota sedan was towed, but not due to police-reported damage.
The Dodge Dakota (V2) was driven by a 43-year old female who was uninjured. She stated that she was also returning to work from lunch when another vehicle crossed the road in front of her. She attempted to brake with unknown lockup, but could not avoid the crash. She estimated her travel and impact speeds to be 72 kmph (45 mph) and 64 kmph (40 mph), respectively. Her truck was then struck again a few minutes later while she stood on the side of the road. The Dodge pickup was towed from the scene, but not due to police-reported damage.