This two-vehicle crash occurred at a driveway access to a city park in the southbound lane of a three-lane roadway. There was one southbound, one northbound and one continuous center two-way turn lane. There were no traffic controls present. The posted speed limit on the roadway is posted at 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred in the sag of two downgrade roadways. The roadway is constructed of bituminous asphalt and it was dry. The weather was clear at the time of this late afternoon crash.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Chevrolet Aveo four door with one occupant, was traveling northbound in the number one lane approaching the bottom of a hill. V1 drove into the center two-way turn lane and attempted to make a left turn into a driveway . Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Chevrolet Impala four door with one occupant, was southbound in the number one lane approaching the driveway at the bottom of the hill. V1 traveled across the path of V2. V2 remained in the number one northbound lane, applied the brakes and struck the right side of V1. V1 rotated and slid into a wooden post at the entrance to the driveway. V2 came to rest in the number one southbound lane facing generally southwest. V1 came to final rest facing west on the dirt driveway. The vehicles were in contact at final rest positions. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene. The driver of V2 was transported to a medical facility. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.
A twenty (20) year-old female drove V1. The driver stated she had left her apartment 10 minutes earlier and was going to the park. She stated she saw V2 approaching but thought she had enough time to complete the turn. She stated she had 9.5 hours sleep the same day as the crash and had two years driving experience. There were no sight line restrictions for this vehicle.
A forty three (43) year old female drove V2. She stated she was southbound in the number one lane approaching the driveway entrance at the bottom of the hill at a constant speed of 53 to 56 kmph (33 to 35 mph). She saw V1 approaching about 61 meters (200 feet) from her and it entered the center turn lane. The driver of V2 thought V1 would yield and not turn. V1 then suddenly turned in front of her and did not use a turn signal. The driver of V2 applied the brakes, unknown lock-up. The front of V2 struck the right front tire and side of V1.