The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a two-way, ten-lane, interstate roadway, which was physically divided by a concrete traffic barrier. There were five northbound lanes, with a posted speed of 105 kmph (65 mph). This was a straight, level, asphalt roadway. Conditions were dark with streetlights on a weekend morning, just before dawn. Traffic flow was normal.
V1, a 1995 Cadillac Deville with three occupants, was traveling northbound in lane one. V2, a 2007 Chevrolet Aveo with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane four. A taxi, also traveling north, was in an adjacent lane to the left of V1. The taxi driver changed lanes to the right, into the path of V1. The driver of V1 took an evasive action to avoid the taxi, losing control of V1 in the process. V1 fishtailed, veering off the right side of the interstate. The front of V1 made contact with the barrier wall as it rotated clockwise. The back of V1 grazed the same barrier as it continued to rotate. V1 reentered the roadway, tracking in a northwest direction across four travel lanes, into the path of V2. The front of V2 made contact with the back left corner of V1. V1 then made contact with the concrete median before coming to final rest facing west, against the barrier. V2 came to final rest on the interstate. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.
The Cadillac Deville was driven by a 20-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he and his friends had just come from the beach, where they had met some girls earlier in the evening. The driver was in the far right lane, preparing to take the next exit to drop off his friends at their respective homes. A taxi cab, traveling much slower than the rest of the traffic stream, changed lanes in front of V1, cutting him off. The driver said he steered left to avoid hitting the cab, then tried to correct the wheel to the right. The vehicle started to fishtail wildly before departing the roadway and striking the cement wall.
The Chevy Aveo was driven by a 66-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he was on his way from his house on a long-distance trip to visit family. Once per month, the driver rents a vehicle and makes the trip to the northern part of the state. The driver indicated that an out of control vehicle crossed suddenly in front of him from right to left. He said that he hit his brakes and hoped for the best, but he slid all the way into the back of the other car.