This three-vehicle crash occurred on an east/west road consisting of 2 through lanes in each direction separated by a raised concrete median with a cutout for a left turn lane in each direction. The primary road intersects with a two lane angled road located to the south that runs northwest and southeast forming a "T" intersection. This intersecting road is controlled by a stop sign at the threshold of the primary roadway; the primary east/west road does not have a traffic control. Both roads are of asphalt construction, level, and were dry at the time of this crash, which occurred on a clear afternoon with moderate traffic conditions. The posted speed limit on both roads is 64 kmph (40 mph). There were no road defects or sight restrictions in the crash area.
Vehicle one (V1), a light blue 1998 Ford Taurus 4-door sedan, entered the primary roadway and crossed the eastbound lanes intending to turn left into the westbound lanes. The front of V1 contacted the left side of V2 in the number two westbound lane. The impact redirected V1 somewhat counterclockwise, and V1 came to a controlled stop in the number two westbound lane facing generally west. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.
Vehicle two (V2), a silver 2004 Dodge Sebring 4-door sedan, after impact with V1, entered a counterclockwise rotation, crossed the center median divider, had a right side impact with the front of V3, then rotated clockwise and had a right side to right side side slap event with V3, then came to final rest partially off the south side of the roadway facing generally northwest.
Vehicle three (V3), a white 2003 Dodge Ram 4-door pickup, was eastbound in lane 2 when the impacts with V2 occurred. V3 came to final rest straddling the number one and number 2 eastbound lanes facing generally southeast.
The V1 driver, a 17-year-old female, stated that she entered the primary roadway intending to turn left, after having looked both ways while stopped at the stop sign. She added that she did not see V1 until the impact occurred, but also stated that she applied her brakes as an avoidance maneuver and that she was conversing socially with her passenger, an 18 year old female, and that they were listening to an audio tape.
The V2 driver, a 25-year-old female, was evacuated from the crash scene by air, and has not been available for an interview due to ongoing serious head injuries; she was not restrained with a seat belt at the time of the crash.
The V3 driver, a 66 year old male, was not reached for an interview, but stated to police that he saw the crash between V1 and V2 and applied his brakes as he noticed V2 begin to cross over into his lane of travel, but was not able to avoid the impacts to V2.