This single vehicle crash occurred on the northbound lanes several hundred feet before a four-way intersection. There were two northbound lanes and three southbound lanes. The lanes were non-physically divided: only a wide yellow painted median area located in the center separated the north/southbound lanes. Curbside parking was permitted on both sides of the roadway. There were no signalized traffic control devices at this middle of the block location. The road surfaces were bituminous, straight, and level, and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred on the weekend during the late night dark hours: standard overhead streetlights were used to illuminate the roadway. The roadway was free of any noticeable defects and the traffic flow was normal.
Vehicle one, a 2000 Dodge Dakota pickup truck with driver as the only passenger, was traveling northbound in lane two of the roadway when it traveled over the right lane line into lane one. V1 continued traveling out of control off the right side road edge and jumped the curb edge onto the grassy area and contacted with its front a utility light pole disconnecting it from its base and knocking it to the ground. After this initial impact, vehicle one traveled several feet (8 meters) remaining off-road on the grassy area where it contacted again with its front a large tree. V1,'s traveling momentum and sudden change in velocity caused the cargo, mostly building material, located in the rear cargo area to smash through the back window into the occupant's compartment landing all over the cabin. It also resulted in V1 rotating 180 degrees clockwise and re-entering the northbound lanes where it came to final rest facing southward straddling lanes one and two. The damages to V1 were disabling and it was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1.
The driver of vehicle one, 40-year old male, said he was traveling northbound in lane two on the dark roadway illuminated only by overhead streetlights on his way home after visiting friends after a long days work, 10-hours. He was not sure the last time he had a day off work. He only slept 6-hours the previous night, not his usual 8-hours, and said he was fatigued and sleepy at the start of the trip and had a hard time keeping his eyes open. During the partial interview, the driver appeared to be drowsy, he had red-eyes, and his voice slurred, he also had trouble remembering recent things, and he answered a lot of the questions after an unusual long pause with, 'I don't remember'. He said, he drank several beers after work, and he took some pills, illegal drugs earlier. The arresting officer, on scene said the driver was going to be issued a citation for DUI. However, the PAR does not list a citation number. It does, however list the driver's physical condition as using illegal drugs and alcohol consumption. He was transported to the hospital with non-life threatening injuries. In a later conversation with the driver's wife, she said the driver's injuries were much worse then indicated on the PAR.