This crash occurred in the evening of a weekday on the right roadside of a rural roadway. The north/south roadway was composed of one lane in each direction and littered with potholes. The dirt roadway was dry and straight with the crash occurring at the hillcrest. The speed limit was 89 kmph (55 mph) and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.
As V1, a 1993 Pontiac Grand Prix with two occupants crested the hill the driver attempted to avoid a large pothole in the roadway. The vehicle began to rotate clockwise, which caused the driver to lose control of the vehicle. V1 continued rotating and departed the roadway to the right. The front left corner of V1 struck an embankment. The left side of V1 than struck a mailbox as it continued rotating. V1 eventually rolled left two-quarter turns onto its roof. V1 than rolled right one-quarter turn back into the ditch and came to final rest at the bottom of the ditch. The driver and her passenger were treated on scene then released to the families that transported them to the local ER unit. The vehicle was towed from the scene due to vehicle damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
The driver of V1, a 17 year-old female, claimed to be in good health and taking no medications at this time. She wears corrective lenses for driving only. She stated that she and her passenger had just dropped of something at a friend's home and were on their way to the passenger's home at the time of the crash. She believed that she was taking a short cut to the passenger's home and rarely drives this roadway. As she crested the hilltop she saw the large potholes and was trying to avoid them. She felt her vehicle start to rotate and panicked. She applied the brakes and steered but could not prevent the contact with the ditch embankment. That was all she remembered until she heard a person hitting the passenger side of her vehicle telling her to shut off her engine and she then noticed mud coming in her driver's window. She then stood up to help the person open the passenger door. She then stated that the person helped her and the passenger out of the vehicle.