This three-vehicle crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a fully controlled positive-divided major highway. There were three eastbound and three westbound lanes divided by a raised concrete barrier. The asphalt roadway was level, curved, and wet, it had been raining most of the morning and afternoon. The posted speed limit was 80 kmph (50 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during the early afternoon daylight hours. The roadway was free of any defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.
Vehicle one, 1993 Infinity J30 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound negotiating a leftward curve in lane two, the center lane, when it lost control on the wet roadway. V1 began to hydroplane and contacted with its front the rear of vehicle two, a 1993 Oldsmobile Achieva 4-door sedan, also traveling eastbound in lane two directly in front of V1. V1, after the initial impact with V2 continued traveling and rotated counterclockwise and contacted with its front the left side of vehicle three, a 1995 Mazda 626 4-door sedan, traveling eastbound in the adjacent lane one. V1 came to final rest on the shoulder area facing westward. V3 after being contacted by V1, slid to the right contacted the light pole went up the steep hill and rolled over on its top on the shoulder where it came to final rest. V2 rotated clockwise, after the initial impact with V1 and contacted with its right rear the concrete barrier where it came to final rest against the barrier facing westward. Vehicles two and three suffered severe damages and were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
The driver of vehicle one, a 27-year old female said she was traveling eastbound in the center lane lost control of her vehicle and struck the rear of vehicle two. As she was going around the curve, 'not too fast', approximately 60 mph, ten miles over the posted speed limit, she applied her brakes and her vehicle spun out of control. She believes she began to hydroplane, afterwards she struck the rear of vehicle two. She seemed pretty confused - and said everything happened so fast. After her vehicle struck the first vehicle she said she spun around and hit another vehicle in lane one front to front. She said she's familiar with the roadway; she travels on it just about every day. 'Maybe just a little too fast for the slippery wet road' She said she normally travels slower especially on a rainy day. She's been a license driver for over ten years. Neither she nor her two passengers were injured.
The driver of vehicle two, a 35-year old male, after several attempts were made, refused to take part of the study. He and his three passengers were transported to the hospital with non-life threatening injuries.
The driver of vehicle three, a 21-year old female, could not be reached for comment.