This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. On the north and south sides of the intersection, the roadway is undivided and the traffic lanes for each direction consist of a left-turn lane, a through lane, and a right-turn lane. This north/south roadway curves to the left in the northbound direction of travel, and to the right in the southbound direction. The roadway is level and has a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The east/west legs of the intersection are comprised of three travel lanes, one in each direction and a left turn center lane at the intersection. This crash occurred in the late afternoon on a weekend with moderate traffic flow. Traffic flow is controlled by on-color traffic signals that were working properly at the time.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Jeep Cherokee with five occupants, was traveling southbound in lane three, the left turn lane, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Honda Passport with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane two, approaching the intersection going straight. The driver of V1 didn't see V2 and proceeded with the left turn. The driver of V2 applied the brakes, but not in time to avoid a collision and the front of V1 impacted the front of V2. V1 rotated sharply counterclockwise and traveled for approximately 16 meters (52 feet), coming to final rest facing north-northwest in the northbound lanes one and two, north of the intersection. V2 rotated clockwise and traveled for approximately 12 meters (39 feet) before coming to final rest facing east-southeast on the east side of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The driver of V2 and two occupants in V1 were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, an eighteen-year-old male, was driving from one friend's house to another friend's house to return a jacket that was left in his car. He was irritated for having to run this errand and concerned about the gas that he was using to do it. He said he always plays "chauffeur" to his friends and was thinking about these matters at the time of the crash. He was well rested, very comfortable with his vehicle and passenger load, drives this route a couple of times a week, and is in good health. He has asthma, but didn't take any medication for it in the previous 24 hours. There is, however, compelling evidence to suggest that this driver was under the influence of marijuana at the time of the crash. The researcher learned on-scene from police that the crash would be investigated for drugs and overheard one officer tell another officer that the driver said he "smoked some" the day before. During the driver interview at the emergency room, one occupant of the vehicle came to the driver and told him that he had just gotten off the phone with another occupant and that the second occupant said to tell the driver that he "couldn't defend him any more, he was turning himself in." The researcher also noted during the interview that the driver's eyes were bloodshot and he was very talkative.
The driver of V2, a twenty-six-year-old female, was driving from a nearby town to her home. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route monthly. She is in good health and takes no medications although prior medical history includes depression.