This four-vehicle rear-end type crash occurred during the mid-morning hours on a Saturday. The location was an inter-city arterial street with sidewalks and curbs on both roadsides. The roadway was a bituminous four lane, undivided, two-way with a negative grade for westbound traffic. The impacts occurred mid-block and there were no traffic control signs. Traffic flow was interrupted when a non-contact vehicle was waiting for oncoming traffic to clear in order to complete a left turn. The weather was clear and the road surface dry. The posted speed limit was 64 kmph (40 mph).
Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Chevrolet S-10 Blazer with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Toyota Celica two door hatchback with one occupant, was stopped in lane two ahead of V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 2005 Toyota Corolla four door sedan with three occupants, was stopped in front of V2. Vehicle four (V4), a 2007 Ford F150 pickup with one occupant, was stopped in front of V3. The three vehicles were stopped because of a non-contact vehicle was waiting for oncoming traffic to clear before proceeding with a left turn into a side street. The driver of V2 stated he had been stopped 1-2 seconds prior to impact. The front of V1 struck the rear of V2 that initiated a rear end type chain reaction. All four vehicles came to rest in lane two facing west adjacent to the impact points. V2 and V3 were towed from the scene while V1 and V4 were driven. The three occupants of V3 were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a 19 year-old male, stated he was traveling the posted speed limit. As he cleared a hillcrest, the driver stated he looked ahead and saw traffic stopped in his lane. The hillcrest is located 47 meters (154 feet) prior to the impact location. The driver stated he applied the brakes, but was unable to stop in time and struck the rear of V2, The driver drives the route weekly and is familiar with the vehicle. He had just left his residence and was on his way to a waste disposal site.
A witness to the crash was traveling westbound in lane one adjacent to V1. The witness stated the driver of V1 did not see the brake lights come on until the vehicle was a few feet behind V2. The witness's vehicle and V1 were traveling about 48 kmph (30 mph).
The driver of V2 was a 20 year-old male. He stated he had been stopped prior to impact. The driver stated he was aware of the presence of V1 prior to the collision thru the rear view mirror. He claimed V1 was periodically tailgating his vehicle. The driver is familiar with the route and the vehicle.
The driver of V3 was not interviewed. V3 was not involved in the first harmful event and a critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle.