The crash occurred on a two-way, two-lane, level, bituminous, rural road with an un-posted speed limit of 89 kmh (55 mph). Conditions at the time of the weekend nighttime crash were dark, unlighted, raining and wet.
V1, a 1999 Dodge Dakota pick-up truck driven by a 23 year-old male was eastbound on the road negotiating a curve to the right. A witness traveling westbound stated that V1 was across the centerline and was eastbound in the westbound lane as she approached v1. The witness sounded her horn twice and steered right onto the shoulder. V1 just missed striking her vehicle by a few feet. V1 continued and the front of v1 struck the left side and wheels of the trailers of v2, a semi-truck pulling two trailers. V1 disengaged from v2 and rotated clockwise and came to rest partially on the south shoulder and the eastbound lane, facing south. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. The unrestrained driver was fatally injured. The unrestrained 20 year-old male passenger in the front right seat was transported to a local trauma center due to injuries Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2, a 2001 Sterling L9500 Series conventional cab tractor pulling two enclosed freight trailers, was westbound on the road 45 miles after picking up his load. The driver was on his way, on time, to another state to drop the load later that night. The semi driver stated that v1 came around a curve up ahead and he realized that v1 was eastbound in the westbound lane. The semi driver applied his brakes to slow the truck and steered onto the right shoulder. V1 was all the way to the fog line of the westbound lane when he struck the side of v2. V2 continued and left the roadway on the right to the soft ditch. V2 struck a road sign on the side of the road, which contacted the left side of the windshield, and then down the left side of the trailers. The driver brought the truck to a stop in the ditch. V2 was towed from the scene primarily with damage to the tires/wheels and windshield. The fully restrained driver denied injuries at the scene.