The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a high occupancy, high volume, and high-speed interstate highway. There were two lanes running southbound with both right and left side paved emergency shoulders, between the two lanes was an emergency swale with a traffic barrier. There was a concrete wall barrier on the right side. The road widths were a standard 3.7 meters and the emergency-paved shoulders were 3.5 meters. The road was straight and level. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekday afternoon. The posted speed was a 105 kmph (65 mph). The crash occurred on the entrance to the interstate highway.
V1 was a 1992 Honda Civic that was traveling southbound on the entrance to the interstate highway. The driver was in lane one when he realized that the highway split into two different directions. The driver was in lane one when he needed to be in lane two. There was a truck behind him in lane one so he looked behind him to make sure he had enough clearance to switch lanes to the left. As he looked back forward there was a traffic barrier right in front of him in the middle swale. He tried to hit his brakes but was unsuccessful in avoiding the impact. The driver was not injured and the vehicle was towed due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1.
The driver was a 21-year-old male who was traveling southbound in lane one. The driver had recently relocated to this area and did not realize that the highway split into 2 different directions. The driver was doing a delivery for his work and was about to change lanes from lane one into lane two. As the driver turned his head to make sure he had enough clearance from the truck who was behind him in lane one, he looked back straight as he attempted to change lanes and saw he was heading straight for the traffic barrier. The driver hit the traffic barrier head on. There was moderate front-end damage. The driver was not cited for the crash but his vehicle was towed due to damages. The driver refused EMS treatment on the scene but his vehicle was towed due to damages.