The crash occurred on a bituminous two lane undivided roadway with a posted speed limit of 56 KPH (35 MPH). The road approached a curve to the left with a radius of 42 meters and a superelevation of 2%. This is a design deficiency due to short a radius for the speed limit. There was a black on yellow curve warning sign, but had no advisory speed. The weather was clear, the roadway dry and it was daylight at the time of this afternoon weekday crash.
V1, a 1991 BMW 318iS, was traveling west on the roadway approaching the curve to the left. V1 entered the curve, which was also a hillcrest, and drove off the right side of the roadway. Operator of V1 corrected to the left and began to rotate counterclockwise. V1 continued to rotate and re-entered the roadway. V1 continued to rotate across both lanes of travel, off the left side of the roadway and struck a 43 cm diameter tree with its right side. V1 continued to rotate and struck a 30 cm diameter tree with its right side. V1 came to rest facing in an easterly direction. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
V1, the BMW 318iS, was driven by a belted 19-year-old male who was transported, treated and released for a complaint of pain. The belted right front seat passenger was also transported, treated and released for a complaint of pain. The driver stated to police that he "had looked away from the roadway, went off the right side and overcorrected." No additional information could be obtained as the driver could not be contacted or located.
A witness (the property owner) to the crash indicated that the driver approached the curve too fast, went off the right side of the roadway, overcorrected to the left went off the left side of the road and struck a tree. He also indicated that there had been 4 previous crashes in the same spot within the past month. He stated that the main road is a 55 MPH road and this one bears off at an angle, as well as, being a long straightaway before the curve, so no one slows down to the posted 35 MPH.