The crash occurred on a primary arterial road that ran north/south with two lanes in each direction and no physical divider. The arterial was intersected by a side-road that ran east/west with one eastbound lane and two westbound lanes. The side-road (eastbound approach to the intersection) had a stop sign with a flashing red beacon and the arterial had a flashing yellow beacon as traffic control. The arterial had a positive grade (northbound approach) of 2.3% at 155 meters precrash with a hilltop between it and the next grade measurement of negative 2% at 86 meters precrash. The negative grade steepened to as much as negative 5% at the impact point for the northbound approach. The side-road had a positive grade of 10.2% just a few meters west of the intersection, which leveled out somewhat in the intersection itself. Both sides of the arterial road were lined with utility poles. The speed limit on the arterial was 72kph/45mph. The speed limit for the side-road was 48kph/30mph. Conditions at the time of the crash were overcast daylight with snow flurries present in the early afternoon on a weekend.
V1 was a 2006 Dodge Ram 4x4 traveling north in lane two of the arterial (a witness stated at a high rate of speed driving aggressively weaving etc…) when as it approached the intersection its brakes were applied and it skidded approximately 17.5 meters in a straight line where it struck V2, a 2003 Buick Century that was traveling east crossing the arterial on the side-road, on its right side. V2 then rotated clockwise while in a yaw to its left and went off the right side (NE corner of the intersection) of the arterial and struck a utility pole with its left side breaking the pole completely off at its base and coming to rest facing southwest approximately 13 meters NE of impact #1. V1 continued north on the arterial after the initial impact but went into a slight yaw to its left in the right northbound lane due to a blown front tire. It (V1) tripped and rolled ¼ turn to its left (estimated roll distance of 13 meters) and came to rest facing northeast on its left side approximately 35.5 meters northeast of the initial impact. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1 was driven by a thirty-nine year old unrestrained male whose airbags did deploy in the crash. The diver was listed by police as sustaining possible injuries and was transported from the crash scene to an area hospital by EMS. The driver of V1 was unable to be contacted for an interview but a few family members who declined actual interviews but gave brief statement about the driver indicated he was a very violent man who had recently broken out all of his ex-wife's or girlfriends' car windows, and had a restraining order on him (D1). The driver of V1 according to EMS records did admit to drinking “at least 5 beers” before the crash that day and had “bloodshot eyes and an odor of ETOH”.
V2 was driven by a fifty-seven year old belted female whose airbags did deploy in this crash. She was killed in this crash. The driver was on her way home from her granddaughter's birthday party. She had left early in an attempt to avoid incoming bad weather according to her husband who had spoken to her by phone a few minutes before the crash.