This two-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of a four-way intersection. There was one northbound and one southbound lane that was non-physically divided. There was one eastbound and one westbound lane that was non-physically divided. Curbside parking was permitted on the sides of all travel lanes. However, they were sometimes used for travel lanes. Signalized traffic control devices controlled the movement through the intersection. The bituminous covered roadways were dry, level, and straight, and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit for all directions of travel was 40 kmph (25mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during the early-morning daylight hours. The traffic flow was normal for this roadway and there were no noticeable defects.
Vehicle one, a 1996 Mercury Cougar 4-door sedan, was traveling westbound on the two-way roadway when it contacted with its front the left side of vehicle two, a 2004 Mitsubishi Outlander compact utility, traveling southbound through the same intersection. After the initial impact, V1 traveled several feet rotating counter-clockwise where it came to final rest facing westward. Vehicle two, after the impact, traveled several feet and rotated 180 degrees counter-clockwise where it came to final rest facing northward. Vehicle one's damages were disabling and it was towed from the scene. Vehicle two's damages were disabling and it was eventually towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
The driver of V1, a 43-year old male, said he was traveling westbound through the intersection when the other vehicle (V2) runs the red light and my vehicle struck her vehicle on the left side. He knew for sure he had the green light; he was paying attention and wasn't going fast, hr was going about 40 kmph (25 mph), he said. He was on his way to a business appointment. He was transported to the hospital with no-life threatening injuries.
The driver of V2, a 46-year old female, said she was traveling southbound on her way to her sister's house to pick her up and go to work. She said she was traveling about 40 kmph (25 mph), not fast, approached the intersection; she saw the light was green. However, there was a little sun glare, but she was pretty sure the light was green so she continued traveling through the intersection and vehicle one; the other vehicle hit her vehicle on the left side. That's pretty much what happened, she offered. She travels on this road daily and she is comfortable driving on it. She was transported to the hospital with no-life threatening injuries