This two-vehicle crash occurred at a signal-controlled four-legged intersection with pedestrian crosswalks across the north and west legs of the road. Northbound approach curved left with no super-elevation, and contained a positive +3% uphill grade. There were three northbound lanes and three southbound lanes divided by a two-way left turn lane. Southbound approach is straight with a negative -3% downhill grade. The posted speed limit is 72 kph (45 mph) in both directions with bituminous asphalt surface. Setting was late evening hours on a weekday. Conditions were clear, dry and dark with overhead white and amber street lighting. Traffic flow was light at the time of the crash.
Vehicle One is a 1997 Mazda 626, four-door, compact with two occupants traveling northbound in lane four, the left turn lane. Vehicle Two is a 1997 Ford Expedition, large utility with six occupants traveling southbound in lane one. V1 proceeded to turn left at the intersection across the path of V2. V2 applied its brakes and left 23 meters (75 feet) of skids marks prior to impact. V2 then unapplied the brakes and traveled 22 meters (72 feet) before contacting V1 on its front-plane (event 1) in the intersection. V1 steered left and accelerated in an attempt to avoid the crash. After impact, the right side of V1 side slapped the left side of V2 (event 2). V1 then traveled southeast across all seven lanes of traffic, crossing over the east curb line and traveling up a +42% grass embankment. V1 traveled a total of 47.5 meters (156 feet) from impact point to the top of the embankment. V1 then traveled backwards down the embankment, re-entering the roadway and rolled 36.2 meters (119 feet) where it came to final rest in southbound lane one facing southeast. After impact, V2 traveled 25.2 meters (83 feet) and came to final rest facing northwest in eastbound lane two. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1 is a 30 year-old male who suffered evident injures to his lower extremity and was transported from the scene after initially refusing treatment. He works 45 hours per week as a painter. He tells me he doesn't take medications, drink alcohol or wear corrective lenses. Due to his language barrier and level of pain he was in during the interview, it was at times hard to make sense of his answers to my questions. On this evening, he tells me him and a friend were on their way back home from a general store 10 minutes down the road. He only occasionally drives this stretch of road even though he says he lives around the corner. He said he had a green turn arrow, so he proceeded to turn left. He couldn't remember if he was stopped at the intersection before proceeding. He says he had almost completed his turn, when he glimpsed right and saw V2 coming right toward him. He says he kept accelerating and steered left to try and avoid being hit, but V2 was going too fast and struck him head on. He kept mentioning the bright white overhead lights in the Wendy's parking lot caused him from being able to see V2 sooner. He can't recall the post impact events due to the airbag temporally "knocking him out." Witnesses say his car spun around in the road and drove across 7 lanes of traffic and up a grass embankment, then rolled backward down the embankment, back across the 7 lanes and came to final rest. Scene evidence confirmed the witness story. V1 was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.
The driver of V2 is a 29 year-old female who was not injured in the crash. She denied any health or emotional issues. She tells me that herself and her five children were on their way home from church which they attend one night a week. She says they had the radio on and all the kids were talking, as well as herself, but that she was paying attention to her driving. She was in lane one traveling at 64 kph (40 mph) facing a solid green light, when V1 unexpectedly turned left into her path. She locked her brakes up and tried to steer right in an attempt to avoid a collision, but was unsuccessful. She hit V1 head -on in the intersection. That was the only description she was able to give. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.