This two-vehicle rear end type crash occurred approximately 30 meters past a four-way intersection. On the north side of the intersection, the roadway is undivided and the southbound traffic lanes consist of a right-turn lane, three through lanes, and a left-turn lane. The right turn lane ends at the intersection. This roadway is straight, uphill in the southbound direction, and has a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). On the west side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a curbed median and the eastbound traffic lanes consist of an implied right-turn lane and an implied left-turn/through lane. This roadway is straight, level, and has a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). Traffic control consists of a stop sign for eastbound traffic. This crash occurred in the early evening daylight hours with rush hour congestion.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Mazda 626 with two occupants, was traveling southbound in lane three, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Subaru Outback with one occupant, was stopped at the stop sign, facing east in lane one. The driver of V2 saw V1 approaching in lane three and proceeded with a right turn into lane one. There was no traffic in lane one. A non-contact vehicle, a pickup (according to the driver of V1), changed lanes from lane four to lane three in front of V1. V1 changed lanes from lane three to lane two. The driver of V1 then saw V2 in the same lane and applied the brakes. V1 skidded longitudinally for approximately 54 meters (177 feet) before the front of V1 struck the back of V2. After the collision, both vehicles drove to the grassy shoulder to avoid traffic. V1 was towed due to damage. The passenger in V1 was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a thirty-year-old male, gave his basic story to the researcher on-scene, but refused to answer any other questions. He stated that the non-contact pickup "cut him off" and he had to change lanes to avoid a crash with that vehicle. He stated that this vehicle had cut him off several times. The researcher, as well as the police, doubted his story because of the length of the skid marks in the crash lane. It is more likely that he was driving aggressively in order to get around the pickup that he had perceived as encroaching upon his travel lane. He also cited other worries that he has in his life at this time. His daughter was taken away that very week by social services, he was driving without a license, and he was going to prison. It is unknown whether he was thinking about any of his concerns at the time of the crash, but these details were only revealed after he learned that he would get a ticket for being at fault.
The driver of V2, a forty-one-year-old male, was driving from work and going to his house. He was well rested, very comfortable with his vehicle, and drives this route daily. He is in good health and takes no medications.