The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. One roadway was a southbound one-way roadway with five lanes. The other roadway was an undivided two-way roadway with two eastbound lanes and two westbound lanes. They were both straight, level, asphalt roadways with a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). It was early afternoon on a weekday and the roads were wet and it was raining. Traffic was flowing.
V1, a 1999 Plymouth Voyager minivan with five occupants, was traveling southbound in lane five. V2, a 1999 Ford Ranger pickup truck with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane one. The driver of V1 stated that he had just got off of the highway and there was a vehicle on his right attempting to get into his lane. He stated that he slowed down to let him over and then followed him through the intersection. He stated that he still had a yellow light. The driver of V2 stated that he had a green light and could not see V1 until he passed a bridge that restricted his sightline. V2 attempted to avoid V1 by applying the brakes but could not. The front of V2 contacted the left side of V1. V1 came to final rest in the intersection, in his same lane, facing west. V2 spun counterclockwise after being struck and passed through the intersection and came to final rest across lane three and four facing northwest. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the Plymouth Voyager, was driven by a 31-year old male. He reported minor injuries and was transported to a local trauma facility. He advised that he had just left his house and was taking the passenger to work. He advised that he was traveling between18-32 kmph (11-20 mph) prior to trying to accelerate and avoid V1. He could not successfully avoid him.
V2, the 1999 Ford Ranger, was driven by a 22-year old male who reported minor injuries but refused treatment. He advised that he had just left his home and was on his way to the mall. He advised that he had been traveling between 34-48 kmph (21-30 mph) when he attempted the avoidance action of applying his brakes. He was unable to stop in time.