The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. The north/south roadway was a two-way, eight-lane street, which was divided by a curbed median. The east/west roadway was a two-way, three-lane street divided by a curbed median. Traffic in all directions was controlled by a traffic light. The posted speed for north/south traffic was 72 kmph (45 mph). The posted speed for east/west traffic was 48 kmph (30 mph). This was a straight, level, asphalt roadway. Conditions were dusk on a weekday evening with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.
V1, a 1999 Saab 9.5 with one occupant, was stopped at an intersection, facing east, waiting for a green arrow. V2, a 1995 Mercury Grand Marquis with one occupant, was traveling southbound in three, approaching the same intersection. The driver of V1 attempted to make a left turn. As the two vehicles entered the intersection, the front of V2 made contact with the left side of V1. Both vehicles rotated after impact, coming to final rest near the point of impact. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The Saab 9.5 was driven by a 43-year old female, who was transported to the hospital due to injury. She stated that she had just gotten off work, at the building located on the southwest corner of the crash site. The motorist was very familiar with the intersection. As she got to the light, which was red, there was no one in front of her. As she waited, she was using both hands to put up her hair. According to the driver, about sixty seconds had gone by before she got the green arrow. She was still in the process of putting her hair up when the light turned green. She recalled having to drop her hands to the wheel before she had finished with her hair, so that she could steer. The driver said she looked left, then right, but did not see any vehicles in the area. She started into the intersection, unaware of the other vehicle until V2 was within ten feet of her, at which time the crash became inevitable.
The Mercury Grand Marquis was driven by an 80-year old female, who was transported to the hospital due to injury. The driver's husband spoke on her behalf, as she did not wish to be directly interviewed. He stated that his wife was on her way home from a supermarket, and was close to home when the crash happened. He said that her light was green, and that the other driver had attempted to make a left turn on a red light. He indicated that his wife did not have time to take any avoidance actions.