This two-vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane undivided north/south roadway between two T-intersections. The northbound approach was straight and level with an intersecting road coming in from the east 37 meters south of impact area. The southbound approach was straight and level with an intersecting road coming in from the west 50 meters north of impact. There was a change in pavement, from new bituminous to older bituminous 20 meters from point of impact. This change was measured as a 2cm drop for northbound traffic. The posted speed limit for this roadway was 72 kmph (45 mph). Setting was afternoon hours on a holiday weekday. Conditions were daylight, clear and dry. Traffic flow was light to moderate at the time.
Vehicle 1 was a 2007 Pontiac G6 four-door with two occupants traveling northbound in lane one. Vehicle 2 was a 2003 Toyota Avalon four-door with one occupant traveling southbound in lane one. V1 was traveling above the posted speed limit when its driver realized the car in front of him had slowed down to turn right into a neighborhood. The driver of V1 applied the brakes, locking the left front tire. V1 traveled in a straight path for 24.7 meters (81 feet) before meeting a 2cm drop of pavement in the road. Once V1 met the drop in pavement, the vehicle started to rotate counterclockwise and travel toward the left, crossing the double-yellow lane line. V1 traveled 20 meters (66 feet) in a counterclockwise yaw before contacting the left front plane of V2 (event 1), which was traveling in the opposite direction. The driver of V2 saw V1 but only had enough time to apply the brakes. After impact, V1 continued rotating counterclockwise in the roadway and started on a northeast path. V1 traveled back over the double-yellow line, then departed the roadway to the right, down a negatively sloped ditch for 3.5 meters (11.5 feet). V1 then traveled 2 meters (6.6 feet) up the positively sloped section of the ditch. The back left plane of V1 then contacted the ditch (event 2). That is where V1 came to final rest, approximately 12 meters (40 feet) from area of first impact, facing southwest. After impact, V2 rotated counterclockwise and came to final rest 7 meters (23 feet) south of the impact area, partially in the roadway, partially in the ditch, facing southeast. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1 and 97 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1 was a 39 year-old male who had recently relocated to the area for a job change. He was driving the vehicle his company long-term leased for him. He had been driving that vehicle for one month. He reported on that afternoon, he was on a leisurely trip from his residence to his friend's house; she was the front seat passenger seat at the time of the crash. He said he was driving straight ahead at 80 kmph (50 mph), when the car in front of him (non-contact) stopped short to turn right into a neighborhood subdivision. He applied the brakes, locking up the left front tire. He then claimed that due to a brake rotor failure, his car skidded across the double yellow line and struck V2 at an angle, head-on. He denied steering left, just that his vehicle just started to pull in that direction due to a brake malfunction. He was unable to provide post-crash data because he was dazed and confused due to the airbag deployment. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.
The driver of V2 was a 59 year-old female who was currently unemployed. She reportedly quit her human resource job at the end of last year due to stress. She had bought a new condo and was having it painted and rugs installed the week prior to the crash. The night before the crash, she threw a party at her residence with her old co-workers, which was very fun. The day of the crash, she had just picked up some clothes from the dry cleaner and was on her way to see a movie at the movie theater. While stopped a red light prior to the crash she decided to unbuckle herself and look in the back seat for a sweater to wear, since she was cold. The light suddenly changed to green, so she proceeded forward without re-buckling. She remembers driving down the roadway at approximately 72 kmph (45 mph) in lane one. All of a sudden, she saw V1 coming right toward her. She had no time to respond, but thinks she hit the brakes due to natural instinct. She said that V1 came toward her so fast that she couldn't do anything else to avoid the crash. She could not recall post-crash events due to airbag deployment. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling left-side damage.