The crash happened on a weekday during early morning hours. The location was a three lane divided (without a positive barrier) straight roadway. The weather was foggy but the roads were dry. The posted speed limit for the roadway was 64 kmph (40 mph). Lane two of the roadway was closed due to road repairs. The lane was blocked with straight up traffic cones as well as cone-shaped traffic cones. The lane was blocked for about 100 meters (328 feet) prior to a square shaped hole stretching laterally across lane two for a length of 3.3 meters (10.28 feet). This hole was 20 cm (0.66 feet) deep. The traffic cones continued to block off lane two across the bridge. A second hole was located on the other side of the bridge. Both holes were scheduled to be filled as part of a road improvement that day. This work started immediately after the scene was cleared. A street light located on the median west of this hole was not illuminated for the westbound lanes. The next street light was located a measured 109.8 meters (360 feet) east of the street light at the crash site.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Mercury Villager van with one occupant, was traveling west in lane one. V1 entered the middle lane, which was blocked off from either side, and drove into the hole in the street. The front of the vehicle struck the far edge of the hole. The vehicle was towed from the scene and the driver was transported to a local hospital. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
A 54-year old female was the driver of V1. Her daughter came to the crash scene 30 minutes after the crash. She stated her mother worked nights and was on her way to pick her daughter up from work. The driver's apartment was nearby. Due to pending legal actions, the driver's lawyer would not allow his client to speak with the researcher.
A city worker at the scene advised the researcher some traffic cones on each side of the blocked lane were missing. He pointed out they were not moved for an opening but missing. He arrived at the scene after the researcher. The researcher found the lane completely blocked by cones on both sides. The lane was blocked for a distance of 100 meters (328 feet) from the street opening, with three cones across the lane blocking the entrance. The driver entered lane two when there was a gap because of the missing traffic cone. The driver failed to recognize that cones continued to block lane two across the bridge and the cones continued to block lane two from traffic.