This three-vehicle crash occurred in the early morning hours on a weekday, in the middle of a four-way residential intersection. The intersection consisted of a two-lane north/south roadway, which was intersected by a two-lane east/west roadway. The east/west roadway was controlled by stop signs, whereas the north/south roadway did not have any traffic control devices. The bituminous roadways were dry and straight. The eastbound roadway, had a slight downhill grade, while the north/south bound roadway crested on a hill, giving both directions of travel a positive grade. The posted speed limit for the north/south roadway was 72kmph (45mph) and the posted speed limit for the east/west roadway was 40kmph (25mph). Traffic flow was heavy due to rush hour traffic. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Pontiac Grand Am, was heading east on the roadway stopped at the intersection waiting to make a left. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Subaru Outback, was heading north on the roadway intending to continue straight through the intersection. Vehicle three (V3), a 2001 Ford Windstar, was stopped at the beginning of the intersection because traffic was heavy and she didn't want to block the roadway. As V1 entered the intersection, the front of V2 contacted the right front of V1. After the initial impact, V1 spun counter clockwise approximately 90 degrees before striking V3, which was stopped in the southbound lane. After striking V1, vehicle two continued forward off the right side of the roadway, where it struck a fence and a tree. Vehicle two came to final rest off the north side of the roadway against the tree. Vehicles 1 and 3 came to final rest shortly after contacting each other. Vehicle two was the only vehicle removed from the scene due to vehicle damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
The driver of V1, a 73 year-old female, was not injured as a result of the crash. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A complete interview was obtained from the driver of this vehicle on-scene. She related that she should have known better. She was stopped for about 5-10 seconds at the stop sign when she was waved on by V3 to make a left at the intersection. She claimed that she looked both ways and didn't see any other vehicles approaching. She attempted to make a left when she was struck on the right side by V2. The driver was not fatigued and was in good health, although she did have heart bypass surgery. She relayed that this did not affect her driving. She was currently taking heart medication, but did not know the names. She had only been driving for a minute, if that, coming from her home, and was very familiar with the roadways. She felt her car was in good condition and that no mechanical problems contributed to this crash.
The driver of V2, a 44 year-old female, was not injured as a result of the crash. There were no other occupants present in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A complete interview was obtained after the crash. The driver stated that she was driving on the road and a car pulled out from between two other cars right in front of her. She slammed on the brakes but could not avoid V1. After she hit V1 she went off the side of the road and hit a tree.
The driver of V3, a 37-year-old female was not injured as a result of the crash. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A partial interview was obtained from this driver on-scene. She relayed that she was stopped just prior to the intersection so as not to block crossing traffic. She claimed that vehicle one attempted to make the left with insufficient clearance. She said that she was familiar with the roadway and that her vehicle was in good working condition. No fatigue or health related issues contributed to this crash.
No Critical Precrash Event was coded to this vehicle because it was not involved in the first harmful event. Therefore, no Critical Reason could be coded to this vehicle. In addition, no associated factors were coded for this vehicle.
A witness was contacted for this crash. He claimed he was traveling approximately three car lengths behind vehicle two traveling between 56-64kmph (35-40mph). He noticed that V1 was inching out between the traffic trying to make a left at the intersection. He also said that vehicle two did attempt to avoid the crash by steering to the right and he noticed the brake lights activate.