This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. Both roadways are level and divided by a curbed median. The westbound approach curves to the left and consists of one through lane and a left turn lane. The speed limit for this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). The southbound approach is straight and consists of two through lanes and a left turn lane. The speed limit for this roadway is 64 kmph (40 mph). The eastbound approach curves to the right and consists of one through lane and a left turn lane. The speed limit for this roadway is 40 kmph (25 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Dodge Durango, was westbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Chrysler LHS, was southbound in lane one. Vehicle three (V3), a 1986 Honda Accord, was stopped eastbound in lane two. In the intersection, the front of V1 struck the left side of V2. The vehicles rotated, moving to the southwest and the right side of V1 struck the left side of V2 twice. The right side of V2 struck a signpost in the eastbound median. The front of V1 struck the front of V3 and the front of V2 struck the left side of V3. All three vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a forty-eight-year-old female, was on her way from work to a store. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver has a thyroid condition and takes the medication Levothroid. She is far-sighted and was not wearing corrective lenses. This driver stated that she did not see V2 prior to the crash.
The driver of V2, a thirty-seven -year-old female, was on her way home from a store. She was well rested, healthy and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she was eating ice cream while she was driving and did not see V1 prior to the crash.
The driver of V3, a thirty-seven-year-old female traveling with a female passenger, was not interviewed. No further information is available for this driver.