This two-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of a three-way intersection. There was one southbound lane intersected by one each eastbound/westbound lanes. The westbound direction had an additional southbound left turning lane. The east/westbound lanes were non-physically divided; only double yellow lines divided the lanes. Signalized traffic control devices controlled the movement through the intersection. The bituminous covered roadways were dry, level, and straight, and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit for all directions of travel was 56kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during the mid-afternoon daylight hours. The traffic flow was normal for this roadway and there were no noticeable defects.
Vehicle one, a 2006 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan, was traveling westbound on the two-way roadway when it contacted with its front the left side of vehicle two, a 1995 Chevrolet Citation 5-door hatchback, traveling southbound through the same intersection. After the initial impact, V1 traveled several feet rotating slightly clockwise where it came to final rest continuing to face westward. After the impact, vehicle two rotated slightly clockwise where it came to final rest continuing to face southward. Vehicle one's damages were disabling and it was towed from the scene. Vehicle two's damages were moderate and it was not towed. The police elected to record the crash on a non-reportable accident report, reasons unknown. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.
The driver of V1, a 20-year old male, said he, his girlfriend, and his child, were traveling westbound approximately 56 kmph (35mph) going straight. He just bought the vehicle less then a month ago. As he was going through the intersection on the green light right in the middle the other car (V2) entered the intersection on the red light and they collided. I had my child in the car with me and I would not have gone through the intersection on the red light. There was a lot of traffic so I was being very careful. I know this road very well, he said. Neither he nor any of his passengers were injured.
The driver of V2, a 26-year old female, said she was traveling southbound on her way to a doctor's appointment. She'd left work a little early and was not traveling very fast approximately 56 kmph (35 mph). She, after awhile, reluctantly admitted she was talking on her cell phone with a friend and adjusting her car radio to listen to one of her favorite songs prior to the crash. I guess I wasn't paying attention because I didn't see V2 until the very last minute, she said. I usually look where I'm going but the traffic was light and I felt comfortable. The driver of V1 said there was a lot of traffic. She was not injured.