The crash occurred at an intersection in the northbound lanes of a seven-lane urban roadway. There were seven lanes of travel on the north, south, east, and west sides of the intersection. On the north side, the northbound and southbound directions of travel were split into two one-way streets. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The northbound approach was set on a 2% uphill grade while the southbound approach was set on a 3% downhill grade. Conditions were daylight and dry with clear skies. The setting was midday on a weekday.
Vehicle one was a 1999 Dodge Intrepid sedan traveling north in lane one. Vehicle two was a 1995 Isuzu Rodeo sport utility stopped facing south in lane four, waiting to turn left. V1 and v2 both proceeded through the intersection. The front of v1 impacted the right plane of v2. V2 immediately rotated 90 degrees clockwise and overturned one complete turn, coming to rest on its wheels facing west in the intersection. V1 traveled a short distance north and parked in lane one on the north side of the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.
The Dodge Intrepid (v1) was driven by a 78-year old male who suffered unknown injuries and was not transported from the scene. He stated that he had just left a funeral home and was heading downtown when another vehicle crossed in front of him at an intersection. He did not have a chance to react in avoidance. He estimated his travel and impact speeds to be 56 kmph 35 mph). The Dodge sedan was towed due to damage.
The Isuzu Rodeo (v2) was driven by a 44-year old female who suffered unknown injuries and was not transported to a medical facility. She stated that she had come to a stop at this intersection and waited more than a minute for the light to change to green. She proceeded on green and was struck by v1 before she could react in avoidance. She estimated her travel and impact speeds to be 32 kmph (20 mph). The Isuzu sport utility was towed due to damage.