The crash occurred in an intersection where a major urban roadway crossed paths with a smaller, single lane road. The smaller, single-lane roadway was for one-way, southbound travel on the south leg of the intersection, and was one-way northbound on the north leg of the intersection. The major roadway, an east/west roadway, had four lanes for motor vehicle travel as well as two lanes that served as a trolley route and a left-turn lane for motor vehicles. Three lanes of the east/west roadway were for eastbound traffic (two for motor vehicles, and the third for the trolley and left-turns). The other three lanes were for westbound travel (two for motor vehicles, and the third for the trolley and left-turns). There was a raised concrete median that physically divided the opposing travel lanes near the intersection. A gas station was situated on the southeast corner, and there were driveways for this gas station along the south curb of the east/west road, and the east curb of the southbound road. Overhead and standard traffic signals controlled the movement of traffic through this intersection. Traffic flow was minimal on this clear weekday afternoon. Both bituminous roadways were straight, level and free from any obvious defects. The posted speed limit for the east/west road was 48 kmph (30 mph) and the posted speed limit for the one-way road was 40kmph (25 mph).
V1, a 1996 Honda Accord two-door coupe, was traveling westbound in lane two. V2, a 2005 Mazda 6 series four-door was at the gas station on the southeast corner. V1 was approaching the intersection, and V1's traffic light turned from green to yellow. A westbound trolley was stopped at a trolley stop, in lane three at the intersection to pick up passengers or drop off passengers, and blocked the left-side view for V1. V1 driver maintained her speed and continued into the intersection. V2 accelerated out of the gas station from the driveway along the south curb, drove across the eastbound lanes in an attempt to make a left into the westbound travel lanes. As V2 entered the intersection from the eastbound travel lanes, V1 passed the stopped trolley and became aware of V2 approaching from V1's left. V1 engaged full braking power and skidded into V2. V1, with its front side, left and middle area, struck the right side front of V2, including V2's front right wheel causing heavy damage to this wheel. After impact V2 rotated slightly in a counterclockwise direction, and V1 continued west. Both vehicles came to their final rests in the crosswalk of the west leg of the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the 1996 Honda Accord, was driven by a 55-year old female. She advised that she was on her way to work, and that she drove this route everyday. She stated that she had been driving west, and though her traffic light had changed from green to yellow, V1 driver advised that she was close enough to the intersection that she didn't feel that she needed to stop for the light as it was not yet red. V1 driver was also aware of the trolley that was stopped to her left side, and V1 driver explained that as soon as she passed the trolley, she saw V2 coming from her left, out of her peripheral vision. V1 driver stated that all she could do was to push on her brakes as hard as possible, which she did. V1 driver advised that this was the first accident that she had ever been in. V1 driver further stated that she was in perfect health, was very comfortable with her vehicle, had perfect vision and hearing, and had not been involved in any non-driving activities at the time of the crash.
V2, the 2005 Mazda 6 series, was driven by a 38-year old female who was in the process of being transported to an emergency room upon researcher's arrival. Attempts to contact V2 driver were unsuccessful and it was concluded that V2 driver did not want to participate in this driver's survey. What is known about V2 was learned from the police while at the crash scene. The officer advised that V2 had been in the parking lot of the gas station on the southeast corner, and that V2 driver was going to be cited for making an illegal maneuver but the officer stated that he was not sure at that time how he was going to write up the official report. It was later learned after reviewing the police report, that V2 driver had been issued a moving citation for making an "improper left turn." The police report also stated that V2 had been traveling eastbound on the same roadway as V1, though in the opposing lanes. It was unknown why the police narrative did not accurately describe V2's pre-crash movements, though it s known for certain that V2 had just left the gas station and had not been traveling east on the same roadway as V1. V2 driver did have a passenger, a relative, with her. It is unknown if V2 driver was engaged in any non-driving activities, such as talking with her passenger, but it is known that V2 driver was unable to see V1 because of the location of the stopped trolley.