This three-vehicle crash occurred during the mid-afternoon hours on an expressway entrance ramp. The down hill slope entrance ramp was non-traffic signal controlled and the traffic flow was congested. There were no road visible deficiencies but the roadway surface was wet and made up of asphalt. The weather condition was rain at the time of the crash. There were no speed limit advisory signs but there was a caution merge sign posted.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Chevrolet Cavalier two door carrying one 52-year-old female occupant was traveling westbound on the expressway on-ramp directly behind Vehicle two (V2). V2 was a 2002 Buick Rendezvous utility vehicle carrying two occupants, a 40-year-old female driver and her 41-year-male husband. Vehicle three (V3), the lead vehicle of the three vehicles, was a 2004 Nissan Sentra four door carrying one 52-year-old female occupant and one 21-year-old male occupant. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
As V3 was about to merge onto the expressway when a non-contact vehicle from the #1 travel lane of the expressway cut in front of V3 to get in the lane for an exit ahead. The driver of V3 stopped to avoid the non-contact vehicle. V2 slowed down when it observed V3 stopping. The front of V1 collided with the back end of V2. This impact forced V2 to move forward and the front end of V2 collided with the back end of V3. V1 was towed due to damage. V2 and V3 were not towed due to damage.
The V1 driver was interviewed and stated she drives this roadway daily and works less than 1.6-kilometers (one mile) away and was on her way home. The driver also noted that traffic is always congested around this time but it was raining and she didn't expect the vehicle in front of her to slow down so fast. She looked to the left at the traffic they were about to merge with and then she looked forward and she was unable to avoid the impact with the back end of V2.
The driver of V3 indicated that she very seldom visits the city and was not familiar with the roadway. She said that the rain made her nervous and that she slowed down and had to stop in an attempt to avoid a crash with an unknown vehicle that was trying to cut into her lane. That's when she felt a bump to the rear of her car. She said she also exchanged info with one of the other drivers involved in the crash but had to leave. Her car had minor damage and was driveable. V3 was not involved in the first harmful event.