This two-vehicle crash with a motorcycle occurred on a straight asphalt constructed city roadway. This road runs east to west with the eastbound being uphill. This roadway has 5 lanes with a center painted left turn lane. This road has business driveways on both sides. The posted speed is 48 kmph (30 mph) with street lighting and good visibility. This crash occurred during early evening hours with overhead lighting and light traffic conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Dodge Ram 2500 series pick-up, was eastbound and had just entered this roadway from a north side road and turned into the left turn lane to turn into a motel driveway. As V1 proceeded across the westbound traffic lanes it impacted a police motorcycle that was going west in the #2 lane. V1 was towed for damage to the radiator and bumper. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.
Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Kawasaki police motorcycle being operated by a city police officer, was westbound in the #2 lane when V1 encroached into its lane from the center two-way turn lane and impacted with it on the front plane. This impact caused the officer to fly over the grille, land on the hood then bounced into the windshield before flying off the vehicle to the roadway. This officer was injured and air transported to a trauma center were he was admitted for three days. The motorcycle was towed for damage.
A twenty seven (27) year-old male driver of V1 stated that he was focused on the driveway and had not recognized the motorcycle coming in the opposite direction. This driver claimed to be in good health, does not have any long term illnesses, and had been driving for 8 hours this day. He was in route to a job site some 161 kilometers (100 miles) away and had decided to stop for the night and rest. He stated that he has driven this road before and was comfortable with it. He stated that he was a little tired but was not fatigued. He did admit that he was more focused on the motel and not the traffic on this road.
The driver of V2, a thirty two (32) year old male police officer, stated that he was on duty for about 2 hours and was westbound doing around 49 kmph (30 mph) when he saw V2 stopped in the center two-way turn lane. He stated that he thought V2 was waiting for him to pass before turning across his lane, but as he neared V2 suddenly pulled into his lane and he could not stop his motorcycle. He stated that he has been riding motorcycles for about 6 months and on police duty for about 2 months.