This crash occurred in a 3-way controlled intersection. The north/south roadway was undivided and had 2 lanes northbound and 3 lanes southbound, one of those lanes being a left turn-only lane. The east/west roadway consisted of a two lane undivided roadway that ended at the north/south roadway in the westbound direction. The westbound roadway was controlled by a stop sign; the north/south roadway had no traffic control device at this intersection. The posted speed of the east/west roadway was 40 kmph (25 mph). The posted speed limit of the north/south roadway was 80 kmph (50 mph). All of the roads involved were straight, level, and bituminous. The crash occurred in the early afternoon on a weekday. The skies were clear and roads were dry. The traffic flow was steady.
V1, a 1990 Ford Thunderbird 2-door, was traveling westbound and came to a stop at the stop sign, intending on making a left at the intersection. V2, a 2005 Toyota Prius 4-door sedan, was traveling north in lane two intending on continuing straight. V1 inched up to get a better view of the road. The roadway (north/south) was clear and V1 began to turn. At the same time, the nearby light that V2 was originally waiting at turned green and the traffic began to approach the intersection at which V1 was waiting. V1 attempted to avoid a collision (since she was still in the roadway from inching up) by accelerating and turning left, but was unsuccessful in the maneuver. The front left of V2 grazed the left rear quarter panel of V1. V1 then continued over the southbound lanes, jumped a curb, ran off the road, the undercarriage struck an embankment, struck a light post, struck another curb, and then struck a tree where it came to final rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the Ford Thunderbird, was driven by an 88-year-old female who reported no injuries on the accident scene. The driver was leaving a nearby pharmacy when she came to the stop sign. She inched up to get a closer view of the road and looked right, saw the road was clear, then looked left saw that road was clear as well, then looked right again before initiating her turn. Since the right side was clear, she began to turn without checking her left side again. By that time the traffic from a nearby light was heading towards V1. When she already started to make her turn she noticed the traffic approaching and accelerated to get out of the way. The force of the initial acceleration caused her vehicle to continue forward on the rest of its collision course until she impacted the tree.
V2, the Toyota Prius 4-door, was driven by a 68-year-old male. He and his passenger, a 68-year-old female, reported no injuries. The driver stated that he was on his way home from the mall and was stopped at a nearby traffic light. When the light turned green, he proceeded to travel straight. He saw V2 attempt its turn and hit his brakes. He was almost successful in avoiding the collision but V1 grazed the front bumper of his vehicle, leaving a scuff mark (which the driver was later able to remove easily at home).