The crash occurred at the tee-intersection of two residential roads in a neighborhood. One road ran north/south, and the other ran east/west. There was a stop sign for the north/south road that intersected the east/west road from the north. The portion of north/south road involved in the crash was straight and relatively level with a very slight negative grade. Both roads were two-way, two-lane roads that had no painted dividers. The east/west road was bordered on both sides by large grassy yards and the north side of the road had a creek that crossed under the road with an embankment wall (negative grade -14.2% from north edge of road to wall) to support the roads' weight. The speed limit on both roads was 40kph/25mph. Conditions at the time of the crash were overcast, wet roads (recent rain) with daylight around mid afternoon on a weekday.
V1 was a 1996 Buick LeSabre traveling south on the north/south road and as it was preparing to stop at the stop sign the driver pressed the accelerator instead of the brake and she went across the east/west road and departed its right side while steering left. She then struck a mailbox with the left side of V1 then traveled east through a yard and regained the east/west road from the right side. V1 then departed the left side of the road and traveled down an embankment where the left front tire impacted the above-mentioned retaining wall edge and was cut. V1 then continued east and traveled across a driveway and into a front yard coming to rest facing east approximately 86 meters east of the first event. V1 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
V1 was driven by an eighty-one year old belted female whose airbags did not deploy in the crash. She was listed as having sustained possible injuries in the crash but was not transported from the scene to any area medical facilities. When interviewed the driver made known that she had had recent heart surgery but stated that her doctor had cleared her to drive. She also stated that she no longer drives any automobile in the follow-up interview.