The crash occurred at the intersection in lane two of a four lane westbound roadway, including one left-turn lane. There was a cement median dividing three eastbound lanes from the westbound lanes. There was a left curve and a 4% downhill slope in the westbound direction. The super-elevation at the crest of the curve was 4% and 2.5% just prior to the intersection and at the crash location. The north/southbound directions of the intersection include a two-lane roadway on the south side of the intersection and a driveway into a shopping center on the north side of the intersection. The skies were clear, the road was dry on this well traveled roadway with a posted speed of 72 kmph (45 mph). Traffic was moderate to light during this mid-evening weekend.
V1, a 1994 Four Taurus four door sedan was driven by an eighty-one year-old woman. She stated that she just left a fast food restaurant and was traveling westbound in lane two when the crash occurred. As she approached the intersection, she saw that the light had turned yellow, and was deciding weather to stop or continue, when she noticed another vehicle, also in her lane, already stopped for the light at the intersection. In an unsuccessful attempt to avoid a collision, she steered right and braked, but the front left portion of V1 crashed into the rear right portion of V2. The driver refused treatment, although her lip was bleeding and swollen, possibly from air-bag deployment. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2 a 1996 Chevrolet Impala four-door sedan driven by a twenty-three year-old male. He stated that he was headed home after leaving work, traveling west in lane two. As he crested a hill, the light at the intersection ahead, turned yellow and he decided to stop. He had been stopped for a few seconds, when he noticed rapidly approaching headlights in his rearview mirror. He was thinking about accelerating into the driveway, bordering lane one, when the crash occurred. The driver was transported for unknown injuries and later released.