The crash occurred on an undivided two-lane east/west roadway east of a "T" intersection with a five-lane north/south roadway divided by a grass median without a positive barrier. There was one lane in each direction of the east/west roadway. There was a stop sign for traffic on this road at the intersection of the five-lane road. There were two northbound lanes and two southbound lanes of the five-lane roadway. The center lane of that roadway had a one-meter wide curb on either side and was marked for a left turn only from the northbound lanes to the westbound lane of the east/west roadway. Both roads were dry and straight asphalt. The five-lane roadway was level. The two lane roadway had an 8 percent slope downhill to the east. Traffic was light when the crash occurred early on a weekday afternoon. The posted speed limit on the two-lane roadway was 48 kmph (30 mph). The speed limit on the five-lane roadway was 72 kmph (45 mph).
V1, a 1999 Chevy Astro van with one occupant, was eastbound in lane one of the two-lane roadway. As V1 traveled down the sloped roadway it was out of control. It did not stop at the stop sign and then started across the five-lane roadway. It struck and jumped the median without any damage and continued eastbound. It departed the roadway and the east end "T" intersection off the east edge of the five-lane roadway. The vehicle continued across a church parking area and then traveled over and down an embankment with a slope of 58 percent downhill. The vehicle hit a level plane of grass at the base of the embankment about 3m below the top of the embankment, front end first. It then rolled end-over-end two quarter turns landing on its top facing west. The vehicle was later towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
V1, the Chevy Astro van, was driven by an 82-year old male who received possible injuries and was transported to a hospital. The driver reported that he had just left a mechanic's shop at the top of the hill and was traveling homebound at an unknown speed. He advised that when he started down the hill the steering did not seem to respond to his input. He said he could not turn either left or right. He reported that he was uncertain if he had attempted to brake. When asked if he had possibly hit the gas rather than the brakes he was also not certain. He also denied a report by a man standing at roadside who said the driver seemed to be trying to change gears. The driver reported that he had no control of his vehicle as it crossed the five-lane roadway and then went down the embankment and landed upside-down.