This two-vehicle crash occurred at a T-intersection in the vicinity of an urban apartment complex. The main north/south road is circlular in nature and provides access to a multiple amount of apartment complex buildings. This roadway was straight, level, bituminous and had legal, marked parking on both sides of the roadway. The intersecting east/west road is a parking area in front of two large apartment buildings. This road is straight, level, bituminous with speed bumps present. There is a yellow line and crosswalk present at this intersection for east traffic. It appears that a stop sign is missing from the intersection, because there are stop signs at similar interchanges throughout the complex. The posted speed limit for both roadways was 56 kph (35 mph). Setting was quiet afternoon hours on a weekend. Conditions were daylight, clear and dry.
Vehicle 1 (V1) was a 2002 Honda Civic, four door, compact with two occupants traveling eastbound in lane one. Vehicle 2 (V2) was a 2003 Volkswagon Jetta, four door, subcompact with one occupant traveling southbound in lane one. VI had stopped at the T-intersection with the intention of turning left and traveling north. V2 was traveling south toward VI at 56 kph (35 mph). VI pulled out into the travel lane and was struck by V2. The front of VI struck the front right corner of V2. V2 activited its brakes without leaving any visible skidmarks. VI and V2 came to final rest at the point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.
The driver of VI, a 19 year-old male, was not injured in the crash. He told police prior to my arrival that he was leaving his apartment complex going to an unknown destination. He stated he pulled up to the yellow lane line, looked left but due to cars parked on the side of the road, couldn't see if traffic was clear or not. He started inching foward, something (he wouldn't say) exterior to his vehicle caught his attention as he was entering the intersection. He was then struck head-on by V2. This driver refused the interview beyond his brief description and became very upset and defensive toward me. His vehicle was not driveable and towed from the scene.
The driver of V2, a 20 year-old female, suffered burns on her arms from airbag deployment, but was not transported for treatment. She is a full-time college student who works 15 hours per week at the mall in the evenings and on weekends. She reported being on her way back to her apartment from work when the crash occurred. She had just turned onto the road where her apartment was and was traveling at 48 kph (30 mph) when she noticed VI starting to pull out. She hit the brakes and honked the horn to get there atttention, but they kept proceeding into the intersection. She was unable to stop and collided with VI in the intersection. She was unsure if the ABS brakes activated, but knows the brakes didn't lock up. She also claimed the cars parked to her right didn't obstruct her view of VI. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling damage.