Case Summary 2007-43-180
This single vehicle, end-departure crash occurred at a suburban signal-controlled, three legged-intersection. Southbound approach has a curve right profile with a slight downhill grade. There are three lanes present, two southbound and one northbound lane. Southbound traffic must turn left or right due to the dead-end. The ditch at the dead-end contains a negative -34% downhill slope and trees. There is a large sign at the dead-end indicating south traffic must turn left or right. The posted speed limit is 72 kph (45 mph). Setting was late evening hours on a weekday. Conditions were clear, dark and dry with very little roadway traffic. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1.
V1 is a 1992 Honda Accord, station wagon with one occupant traveling southbound in lane one, the right turn lane. As V1 was negotiating the right curve and approaching the intersection, the brake system lost pressure. V1 had to turn left or right at the intersection because it dead-ends. V1 pulled its emergency hand brake in an attempt to slow or stop the vehicle, but was unsuccessful. V1 departed the end of the roadway after leaving 14.7 meters (48 feet) of skid marks on the roadway. V1 first contacted a tree that was lying across the ground with its undercarriage (Event 1). V1 then traveled 4.5 meters (15 feet) and contacted a 30 cm diameter tree with its front plane (Event 2). V1 came to final rest in the ditch facing south against the tree.
The driver of V1 is a 46 year-old female who was not injured, just shaken up in this crash. She had just got off from a 10-hour shift at a pizza chain. She had a bad headache all day but needed a few groceries so stopped by Wal-Mart. Once she left Wal-Mart, her headache escalated into a migraine. The oncoming headlights from other vehicles were causing her difficulty in driving. On top of that, she reported that the brake light had just come on in her car also, but they appeared to work fine and she figured it just needed more brake fluid. As she approached the tee-intersection with the intention of turning right, she applied the brakes to slow down, but they failed to work. She did panic, but grabbed the emergency brake and tried to stop prior to departing the end of the roadway. Her attempts failed and she departed the end of the road and struck a tree. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling damage.