This two-vehicle crash occurred in the late afternoon hours on a weekday on a two-way, four-lane roadway with two lanes in each direction. The bituminous roadway was straight, level, and dry. The posted speed limit on the roadway was 72kmph (45mph). There were no traffic control devices associated with this stretch of roadway. Traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Chevrolet Cavalier, was traveling west in lane one intending to continue straight on the roadway. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Honda Accord, was also traveling west in lane two intending to continue straight on the roadway. The first harmful event occurred when V1 traveled off the right side of the roadway and struck the guide rail. Afterwards, V1 careened back across the left side of the roadway and struck the right side of V2, which was traveling next to V1. Vehicle two was then struck a second time by V1 and pushed into the opposite lane of travel. Vehicle one then swerved back across the right lane when it began to yaw in a clockwise motion. The vehicle struck the curb at the entrance of a produce store and flipped approximately six times before coming to final rest off the right side of the roadway. Vehicle two was able to come to a controlled stop facing west in lane one. Both vehicles were towed from the scene, however, only vehicle one should be considered towed due to vehicle damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
The driver of V1, a 21 year-old female, was completely ejected from the vehicle when it rolled, and suffered non-incapacitating injuries. She was airlifted to the hospital for treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. She related that she had fallen asleep behind the wheel when she lost control of her vehicle. She claimed that between work and school she was very tired when she began this leg of the trip. She also said that she was in good health but was currently taking medication for allergies. She relayed that she was familiar with the roadways, and that her vehicle was in good working condition.
The driver of V2, a 53 year-old woman, suffered possible injuries and was taken to the hospital for observation. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A complete interview was obtained from this driver. She claimed that she was driving down the road in lane two when the vehicle next to her swerved into her lane and struck her twice on the right side of the vehicle. She said that she was pushed into the opposite lane of travel, but luckily there were no other vehicles coming. She related that she observed V1 swerve off of the roadway and flip multiple times ejecting the driver from the vehicle. The driver claimed that she was in good physical health and only takes prescription pain relievers in extreme cases. She was not fatigued at the time of the crash and was familiar with the roadways. Further, she stated that her vehicle was in good working condition.