This two-vehicle crash occurred in the evening hours of a weekday in the middle of a four-way intersection. The north/south directions of the roadway consisted of two lanes, one in each direction. The east/west direction was composed of two lanes on the east end and three lanes on the west end. The eastbound roadway had a right turn lane, which was physically divided by an "island." The bituminous roadway was straight and slightly damp due to a mild rainfall. The westbound road had a downhill grade, while the grade for eastbound traffic was level. The posted speed limit for east/west traffic, upon which both vehicles were traveling, was 64 kmph (40 mph). All four directions of the intersection were controlled by traffic signals. There were no traffic flow problems at the time of the crash.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Nissan Versa, was heading west intending to make a left at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Ford Focus, was heading east on the roadway intending to continue straight through the intersection. As V1 attempted to make a left turn, the front of V2 contacted the right side of V1. The impact caused V1 to rotate counter clockwise approximately 180 degrees before coming to final rest in the intersection facing north. Vehicle two continued forward and came to final rest along the side of the eastbound roadway. Both vehicles had to be removed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a 20 year-old female, was not injured as a result of the crash. There were two other passengers in the vehicle that also did not suffer any injuries as a result of the crash. A complete interview was obtained from the driver of this vehicle. She claimed that she was not familiar with the area and was following a friend on the way to the movies. She made the left at the intersection and did not see the other vehicle approaching from the opposite direction. She claimed that she was talking to the other passengers in the vehicle as well as listening to the radio. She stated that she was not tired and that no health issues contributed to the crash. She did relay that she was currently taking medicine for her allergies, but she didn't think it affected her driving.
The driver of V2, a 23 year-old female, suffered a sore shoulder as a result of the crash and sought private treatment for her injury. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A complete interview was obtained with the driver of this vehicle. She stated that she was traveling at approximately 64 kmph (40 mph) intending to go straight through the intersection. She claimed that the other driver didn't put their signal on until the last minute and as they began to make the turn, there was nothing she could do. She did try to steer out of the way as well as apply the brakes. She related that she was on her way back to school from Michigan and had been driving this leg of the trip for about 4 hours. She relayed that she did not feel fatigued. She felt that she was in good health, although she was taking medicine for depression and migraines, as well as birth control. Her vehicle was in good working condition and no mechanical factors contributed to this crash.