The crash occurred on a bituminous two lane undivided roadway with a posted speed limit of 72 KPH (45 MPH). The roadway curved and there was a black on yellow "S" curve warning sign in both directions with a suggested speed of 56 KPH (35 MPH). The weather was clear, the roadway dry and it was daylight at the time of this afternoon weekday crash. Traffic flow was normal for that time of day.
V1, a 1995 Buick Park Avenue, was traveling west on the roadway negotiating the curve to the right on an upgrade of 2.3%, a radius of curvature of 250 meters and a superelevation of 4.6%. V2, a 1996 Harley Davidson XL1200S motorcycle, was traveling east on the same roadway negotiating the curve to the left on a downgrade of 1.2%. V1 crossed over centerline into eastbound lane and struck V2 in the front with its front. Operator of V2 was ejected and struck the windshield of V1. V1 continued off the roadway to the left and came to rest facing in a westerly direction. V2 was dragged under V1 and came to rest facing in a westerly direction. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the Buick Park Avenue, was driven by a belted 35-year-old male who was transported, treated and released at a local hospital for minor injuries. The driver stated that he had no recollection of the crash. He did indicate that the sun was in his eyes making it difficult to see at the time of the crash. A witness stated that he had been following V1 up the road and they were traveling approximately 40-45 mph. He stated that he watched the car as it did "a slow drift" into the other lane and then struck the motorcycle. He stated that he did not remember seeing any brake lights or any attempt to avoid the collision.
V2, the Harley Davidson motorcycle, was driven by a 44-year-old male who was wearing a helmet. The driver was killed in the crash. No additional information was obtained as family members could not be contacted or located.