This three-vehicle, rear-end crash occurred on a four-lane roadway with no traffic controls. The roadway has two lanes north and two lanes south. The roadway is straight and level. The posted speed limit for the roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred just past noon during daylight hours, the weather was clear with no adverse atmospheric conditions. The roadway is constructed of bituminous asphalt.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Dodge Durango 4x4 with one occupant was southbound in the number two lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Chevrolet S-10 pickup with one occupant, was southbound in the number two lane ahead of V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 2002 Ford F-250 4x4 Crew Cab pickup with two occupants, was southbound in the number two lane ahead of V2. These three vehicles were the last vehicles in a funeral procession and V1 was a police escort vehicle. The driver of V1 was traveling at a speed of 32 kmph (20 mph) or less. The driver reached down near the passenger seat to get a radio and its front impacted the back of V2. The driver of V1 did not brake or make any avoidance efforts. The impact propelled V2 forward and it impacted V3 in the back. The vehicles came to final rest very near the areas of impact and all three were facing south in the original number two, travel lane. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. V3 was not towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a thirty four (34) year old male, stated he had been traveling south in the number two lane between 24 to 32 kmph (15 to 20 mph). He stated he was about one car length behind V2 when he took his eyes off the road, reached down near the right front seat to get a radio, and ran into the back of V2. He did not attempt to avoid V2. He stated he was familiar with the roadway, was in good health, did not require glasses and had taken no medications. The driver was not injured.
The driver of V2, thirty seven (37) year old male, stated he was at the back of the funeral procession. He knew there a police vehicle was behind him maybe one or two car lengths. The driver stated he was about one car length behind V3. The driver of V2 said he was traveling about 16 kmph (10 mph). He said the police vehicle struck the back of his truck and he was pushed forward and struck the back of V3. He stated that he and V3 were traveling at about the same speed at the time of the crash. The driver of V2 complained of pain and was treated on scene by medical personnel.
The driver of V3, a forty five (45) year old male resident of Mexico, stated he had been driving about fifteen minutes at the time of the crash and was near the end of the funeral procession. He said he saw traffic in front of him and knew there was traffic behind him, but was not watching the mirrors. He heard a crash and was struck in the rear by a small truck. He did not make any avoidance efforts.