This single-vehicle crash occurred on an exit/entrance road from a state highway. The state highway is divided by a grassy median and the westbound traffic lanes consist of a right turn lane and two through lanes. This roadway is straight, concrete, downhill in the westbound direction, and has a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). The exit/entrance road is situated at approximately 110 degrees from the state highway and is undivided with two lanes of travel - one through lane for each direction of travel. This roadway is straight, bituminous, downhill in the north/westbound direction, and has no posted control for speed or curve warning. There is a warning sign posted for a stop sign ahead. This crash occurred at dusk on a weekday with moderate traffic flow. Gravel was present on the roadway from a light snowfall the day before.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1993 Toyota 4-Runner extracab pickup with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane one on the state highway, approaching the exit road. At a high rate of speed, V1 turned right and entered lane one of the exit road and encountered the gravel on the roadway. The driver began to enter the lane to the left and applied the brakes in an attempt to regain control of the vehicle. V1 skidded longitudinally across the lane line then departed the left side of the road and impacted a guardrail with its front left corner. V1 began to ride up the guardrail with its left front and the driver of V1 steered sharply to the right. V1 then reentered the roadway and rolled four quarter turns, leading with its right side, for approximately 25 meters (82 feet)across the two travel lanes and down a steep embankment. V1 came to final rest on its wheels, facing up the embankment, perpendicular the to the exit road. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 113 kmph for V1.
The driver of V1, a sixteen-year-old male, was driving from a physical therapist's office to his home. The driver's father, who said he went into great detail with his son about exactly what happened in the crash, gave the interview for the driver. According to his father, someone who had just entered the right lane of the highway behind his vehicle and was tailgating him. He said his son felt pressure to keep his speed up for that reason. His father blamed the crash itself on the excessive gravel on the roadway. He said his son was well rested, very comfortable with his vehicle, and drives this route daily. He is in good health and takes no medications. The father stated that his son had been driving for 18 months. The investigating officer estimated the vehicles speed to be 113 kmph (70 mph).