This single-vehicle crash occurred on a rural, bituminous, two-lane undivided roadway. This roadway curved left with an 11 percent downhill grade, a 6 percent super-elevation, and a radius of curvature of 115 meters. The right roadside was grass with a negative 25 percent grade and no shoulders present. There were several left curve reflective signs on the right side of the roadway, but no advisory speed limit was present. The posted speed limit was 72 kmph (45 mph). Setting was afternoon hours on a weekday. Conditions were daylight, dry and clear with light traffic flow.
V1 was a 2003 Nissan Pathfinder utility vehicle with one occupant traveling northbound in lane one. As V1 was negotiating the left curve, the right tires departed the right side of the road. The driver of V1 then steered left, overcorrecting, causing V1 to rotate counterclockwise. V1 crossed the double-yellow lane line and departed the left side of the roadway. There were 42 meters (138 feet) of yaw marks on the roadway. V1 traveled 13.4 meters (44 feet) on the grass roadside before striking three trees with its front plane (Event 1, 2, 3). After the first events, V1 rotated slightly counterclockwise and struck a small tree with its right plane (Event 4). V1 came to final rest against all four trees facing west. Prior to impact with the trees, the right rear tire suffered a tire/rim bead separation. It appeared to have happened right after V1 departed the left side of the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1.
The driver of V1 was a 38 year-old female who suffered minor injuries requiring transport to the hospital. She was a stay-at-home mom with three young children. She had an appointment for a haircut in a nearby city on this day. She arranged for a neighbor to watch her children while she went to her hair appointment. The neighbor came over earlier than expected leaving her plenty of time to stop for a coffee to drink during her leisurely trip. She denied being in a hurry or running late. She drove this roadway weekly and was familiar with the curve. She reported that she was driving along at 64 kmph (40 mph) around the left curve, looking straight ahead, and was not distracted by any interior or exterior sources. Her right tires went off the road on the right side for an unknown reason. Even though she claimed to be very aware that you should never jerk your car back on the road, she said instinctively she jerked the wheel to the left, overcorrecting, causing her car to spin out of control several times across the road to the left towards some roadside trees. She claimed to have been braking the whole time and looking at the trees and thinking, "I'm not going to hit those trees." Despite all her efforts, she collided with several trees, coming to final rest on the shoulder with disabling front-end damage, requiring her vehicle to be towed.