The crash occurred at a three-way intersection, with legs running out from the intersection to the north, south, and west. These were two-way, two-lane, undivided streets, which were controlled in all directions by stop signs. These were straight, level, asphalt roads, with a posted speed of 40 kmph (25 mph). Conditions were daylight on a weekday evening with wet roads and cloudy skies. Traffic flow was normal.
V1, a 1987 GMC Sierra 2500 pickup with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane one. V2, a 1998 Nissan Altima with one occupant, was stopped, facing northbound at the stop sign. V3, a 1998 Dodge Ram pickup with one occupant, was stopped behind V2. All vehicles were approaching the same intersection. The driver of V1 failed to stop at the intersection, and then swerved left to avoid a phantom vehicle that was turning in front of him. V1 passed through the intersection. The front left corner of V1 made contact with the front left corner of V2. The impact pushed V2 backwards, rotating the car clockwise ninety degrees. The right side of V2 made contact with the front of V3. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.
The GMC Sierra 2500 was driven by a 39-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he was on his way home from work. He had been taking a detoured route home for the past week, due to ongoing construction of his usual path home. The driver said that the ground was wet from previous rain. He insisted that he was paying attention to his driving, and was not speeding. However, when he applied his brakes, the vehicle started to slide into the intersection. The motorist steered left, narrowly missing a turning vehicle, striking V2 on the opposite side of the intersection.
The Nissan Altima was driven by a 37-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he was on his way home from work. As he approached the stop sign, there was a vehicle in front of him. When the car started to turn, the driver of V2 inched forward, stopping to wait for his turn to proceed. As he looked across the intersection, he could see the driver of V1 coming toward him. The motorist said that the whole thing happened in an instant.
The Dodge Ram was driven by a 38-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he was on his way home from work. The intersection that the motorist was approaching was less than two blocks from his home. The driver said that he was decelerating in his lane behind V2, which was stopped at the intersection. The driver came to a complete stop approximately ten feet behind V2. He witnessed V1 come shooting across the intersection into V2. The driver felt that V1 must have been traveling at a high rate of speed in order to cause V2 to spin around clockwise, into his truck.