This three-vehicle crash occurred in the eastbound lane several hundred feet before a four-way intersection. The roadway consisted of two lanes: one eastbound and one westbound. The lanes were non-physically divided; only double yellow lines divided the lanes. Curbside parking was permitted on both sides of the street. There were no signalized traffic control devices at this middle of the block location. The road surfaces were bituminous wet and icy. It had been snowing on and off throughout the morning and the curved downhill road was slippery. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during the early afternoon daylight hours. The roadway was free of any defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.
Vehicle one, a 1994 Pontiac Bonneville 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound negotiating a leftward curve when it contacted with its front the back of vehicle two, a 1998 Dodge Caravan minivan, also traveling eastbound, After the initial impact, Vehicle one, veered right and contacted a utility pole located on the curbside, continued traveling and rotating counterclockwise 45% where it came to final rest facing southward. Vehicle two, after the initial impact, continued traveling downhill and contacted with its front the back of vehicle three, a 1999 Chrysler Concorde 4-door sedan, parked on the north side curb edge. Vehicle one and two damages were not disabling. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
The driver of vehicle one, a 21-year old female, explained how she was traveling eastbound trying to deal with the curve on the slippery road when she put on her brakes because she felt she was going too fast and when she did her car started to go left then she steered right and her vehicle slid into the back of vehicle two, then her vehicle hit the pole so she then steered left and her vehicle slid completely across the road on the other side of the yellow lines facing the houses. She travels on this road at least once a week, however can't remember if she ever did while it was snowing or with icy roads. She's been a license driver for a little over four-years, however, consistently driving for only two of those years. She and her passenger were transported to the hospital with non-life threatening injuries.
The driver of vehicle two, a 51-year old male, said he'd just got into his car a minute ago headed back to work from lunch and as he began to merge into the traffic lane the other vehicle stuck his vehicle from behind. His vehicle then struck a parked vehicle. He said, he was talking on his handheld cell phone and it did not distract him, he does it all the time. He drives on this street daily to visit his friends. The previous night he slept 6-hours. However, he normally sleeps 8-hours.
Vehicle three was parked and thought not to contribute to the crash.