This three-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged intersection. The traffic control signal for this intersection was flashing at the time of the crash - red for north/south traffic and yellow for east/west traffic. The north/south trafficway is divided. The northbound approach is level, curves to the right, consists of one through lane, a left turn lane and a right turn lane and has a speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). The southbound approach is level, curves to the left, consists of one through lane and a left turn lane and has a speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The east/west roadway is undivided, straight and consists of two through lanes in each direction and a left turn lane at the intersection. The westbound approach has a downhill grade. The speed limit for this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). It was dark with streetlights on at the time of this crash with no adverse atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Chevrolet Cavalier, was stopped northbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Ford Windstar, was westbound in lane two. Vehicle three (V3), a 1997 Chevrolet Cavalier, was stopped southbound in lane one. V1 entered the intersection and the right side was struck by the front of V2. V2 continued to the northwest and the front struck the front of V3. V1 and V3 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, an eighteen-year-old female, was on her way home from a friend's dormitory. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she had been watching a very intense movie with her friends and was still thinking and crying about it at the time of the crash. She further stated that she looked both directions and did not see V2 prior to the crash.
The driver of V2, a fifty-six-year-old male, was on his way to work with a fifty-five-year-old male passenger. This driver was healthy, well rested and comfortable with his vehicle and passengers. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that he saw V1 approaching the intersection but thought that she would wait until he cleared the intersection. He applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid the crash.
The driver of V3, a nineteen-year-old female, was on her way to her dormitory from a friend's house. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she saw V2 but was unable to attempt any avoidance maneuvers.