The crash occurred in the westbound lanes of a 4-lane interstate. The road was straight and level with four lanes in each direction, divided by a guardrail. The posted speed on the interstate was 89 kmph (55 mph). This was a bituminous, dry roadway and the sky was clear. It was early evening (dusk) on a weekend. Traffic was moderate on this section of this busy well-traveled roadway.
V1, an unknown vehicle, was traveling west in lane three at an unknown speed. The driver of V1 swerved left, avoiding a large piece of carpet in lane three, colliding with the right rear portion of V2 with an unknown portion of V1. The driver fled the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2, a 2006 Honda Civic four-door sedan, was driven by a 27-year old female. The driver of V2 stated that she was driving west in lane four at a speed of 105 kmph (65 mph) when she tracked the unknown vehicle coming up behind her in her right side mirror, traveling west in lane three. She saw a large piece of carpet ahead lying in lane three and saw the unknown vehicle swerve into lane four to avoid the carpet. To avoid being sideswiped by V1, the driver of V2 braked and steered left, but the right rear corner of V2 was impacted by an unknown part of V1. Following this impact, V2 began a clockwise rotation to the right, turning 180 degrees facing east and crashing front-to-front into V3, which had been traveling in lane one. V3 was a 2002 Pontiac Grand Am 4-door sedan. After impact with V2, V3 rotated in a clockwise direction, and while rotating, was struck on the left side by V4, a 2003 Chevrolet Silverado pickup, which had been traveling in lane one behind V3. V3 continued its rotation to the right, and the left rear side of V3 scraped the guardrail. V2 and V3 came to final rest on the right shoulder facing east, while V4 came to rest on the shoulder facing west. No injuries were reported.
Inspection of V2 revealed damage to the right rear portion, supporting the statement that V1 struck V2, causing V2 to spin 180 degrees clockwise and collide with V3.
V3, the 2002 Pontiac Grand Am, was driven by a 25-year old female. The driver stated that she was driving west in lane one at a speed of 89 kmph (55 mph) when she first noticed V2 in lane two facing north ahead of her. V2 then spun clockwise facing east into lane one. Aware that a crash was about to occur, the driver braked and attempted to steer right just before the front of V3 struck the front of V2. The driver did not see the prior events that caused V2 to spin out-of-control.
V4, the 2003 Chevrolet Silverado pickup truck, was driven by a 63-year old male traveling with his 60-year old wife. The driver stated that he was traveling west in lane one at a speed of 97 kmph (60 mph) and saw the carpet in lane three. He saw V1, traveling in lane three, swerve left into lane four to avoid the carpet. The driver of V4 then saw V2, traveling in lane four, attempting to avoid V1, lose control and rotate clockwise180 degrees into lane one striking V3 head-on. He stated that the force of the collision spun V3 clockwise 450 degrees, into the path of V4. He reported that he braked and steered right in an attempt to lessen the impact with V3. V4 struck the drivers side of V3 with the front of V4.
The Pre-Crash Event for V3 was "Other; not involved in the first harmful event." Associated factors coded to the driver included unfamiliarity with the roadway and the traffic flow interruption.