The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes, just prior to an intersection, on a two-lane east/west roadway where the posted speed limit for eastbound traffic changed from 72 kmph (45 mph) to 56 kmph (35mph). A concrete divider physically separated the east and west lanes. Prior to the intersection were two additional lanes that were designated left turn-lanes. After eastbound traffic crossed a bridge, the roadway was bituminous, level, and straight. Additionally, what was lane two on the bridge, changed to lane number three, the outermost designated left-turn lane. It was a clear weekend afternoon and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was congested, with drivers making frequent lane changes after they crossed the bridge to make their way into the left turn lanes. (The left turn lanes were heavily traveled as they lead to an interstate.) The intersection was controlled by overhead traffic lights as well as overhead signs that indicated how each of the four lanes were to be used.
V1, a 1999 Nissan Quest minivan with V1 driver as the only occupant was traveling east in lane two and intended to make a left. V2, a 2006 Toyota Corolla with V2 driver and one passenger, was traveling behind V1 and was intending to go straight. V3, a 2007 Hyundai Sonata with V3 driver as the only occupant was the first vehicle stopped at the red light in lane three, the outermost designated left turn lane. The traffic lights for eastbound traffic in lanes three and four, the left turn lanes, was red. The traffic lights for traffic that intended to travel straight through the intersection in lanes one and two, was green. As V1 and V2 approached the area of roadway where the two lanes became four, V2 changed lanes to her right, from what had become lane three and into lane two. V1 continued straight as lane two became lane three but at the last second changed lanes to his right, into lane two. As V1 began his lane change, V1 with its right side front, struck V2's left side rear and center. Upon this first impact, V1 then turned back into his original travel lane, what was then lane three. V2 rotated counterclockwise less than 90 degrees and continued in a northeasterly direction where the front of V2 then struck the right side center of V3, the vehicle that was stopped at the red light. V2 continued to rotate in a counterclockwise direction and came to its final rest. All vehicles were towed from the scene and V2 was leaking fluids from the engine compartment. The lead officer on-scene stated that V3 was no longer functional due to the damage that it had sustained and, all three vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the 1999 Nissan Quest, was driven by a 51-year old male who was taken from the crash directly to an emergency room. While at the emergency room, and within two hours after the crash, V1 driver explained that he had never traveled this roadway before, and that he thought that he was about to get lost. He stated that he knew which road he was looking for but became confused by the directions indicated on the signs as he made his way towards the intersection. He advised that he felt uncomfortable because traffic around him was moving "so, so, fast", and at very close proximity to each other. He stated that as he approached the intersection, the left turn lanes became available and he continued in lane two as it changed into lane three, one lane to his left. The driver stated that he thought his directions were to make the left turn, but being confused by the signs, he questioned if this was his correct route. V1 driver further advised that he, very quickly, decided that he should continue to travel east rather than to make the left turn (which actually was his correct route), and he engaged his turn signal and began to change lanes to his right. As V1 driver was making his lane change he checked his right side-view mirror and he struck the left-side rear of V2, which was passing him to his right. V1 driver stated that he then quickly steered back into lane three and came to a stop.
V2, 2006 Toyota Corolla, was driven by a 28-year old female. Her occupant, her 17-month-old baby, was taken directly to an emergency room for evaluation though there were no known injuries. A complete interview with V2 driver was obtained at the emergency room where the baby had been taken. V2 driver advised that she was on her way to a friend's house and that she was very familiar with this roadway and intersection. Driver advised that she was traveling about 35 mph when V2 pulled out and struck her. V2 driver stated that she never saw a turn signal and that there was no reason for her to think that another vehicle was going to enter her lane from her left. Also, V2 had almost completely passed V1 when it was struck by V1. V2 driver was an experienced driver and advised that though traffic was congested near the intersection, she felt comfortable operating her vehicle.
V3, the 2007 Hyundai Sonata, was driven by a 41-year old male who reported that he had been stopped in lane three for about 30-45 seconds and was intending to turn left. V3 driver was operating a rental car, and though it was not his vehicle, V3 driver stated that he had rented this model vehicle before and thought that he had even rented this particular vehicle on his previous visit. He advised that he was from out-of-state, but he frequently visits this municipality to conduct business. He stated that he heard the impact from behind him, but stated that it seemed like less than one second before he was then struck by V3. He advised that there was nothing that he could have done to have gotten out of the path of V2's post-crash path of travel. V3 driver also acknowledged that this intersection and roadway, which he was familiar with, seemed to be dangerous due to the way traffic backed up and the change in speeds after crossing the bridge, though he felt very comfortable and confident driving this roadway.
V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. Therefore, no Critical Precrash Event or Critical Reason was coded to V3 driver. The only associated factor coded to this driver was the roadway congestion.