This two-vehicle crash occurred along a straight stretch of rural two-lane, two-way, undivided east/west roadway. There are 0.6 meter (2 feet) paved shoulders on both sides of the roadway. Beyond the shoulders are negatively sloped grass ditches designed to catch water runoff. The posted speed limit is 72 kph (45 mph). The roadway surface is new, sharp bituminous asphalt. Setting was afternoon hours on a weekday. Conditions were daylight, cloudy and dry with light traffic flow.
Vehicle One is a 1989 Chevrolet S-10, compact pick-up with one occupant traveling westbound in lane one. Vehicle Two is a 1995 Ford F-150, large pick-up with two occupants traveling eastbound in lane one. As V2 approached the gravel driveway that leads to his residence on the north side on the roadway, V2 slowed down and proceed to make a left turn. V1, who noticed V2 turn left in its path, applied the brakes, locking them up, leaving 30.4 meters (100 feet) of skids marks in the road prior to impact. The front plane of V1 contacted the right plane of V2 (event 1). After impact, V1 traveled an additional 3.7 meters (12 feet) and came to final rest facing northwest in lane one. V2 after being struck on the right side, was pushed laterally to the left, causing it to depart the road into the -36% sloped ditch. When V2 entered the ditch, it rolled over two quarter turns (event 2) and came to rest on its top facing northeast, 6.4 meters (21 feet) from impact point. Police Reported Travel Speed is 113 kmph for V1 and 113 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1 is a 45 year-old male who was not injured in the crash and interviewed on-scene. He works full-time from 07:00 to 16:00 daily, but had this day off to run errands. He had just left his doctors office 10 minutes prior where he had his ears examined. He was on his way back home to cut the grass (that's why he had the lawnmower in the back of his truck). He reported traveling straight at 72 kph (45 mph) in lane one, when all of a sudden V2 maked a left turn in front of him. His only reasonable avoidance maneuver was to brake because there was a car coming toward him in the other lane. He locked his brakes up and braced the wheel, but couldn't avoid a crash. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage
The driver of V2 is an 81 year-old male who was transported from the scene with possible injuries. He is retired, but still enjoys hunting and training hunting dogs. On this day he volunteered to pick-up his great grand son from school. His wife usually picks him up, but he felt like doing it today. The school is located approximately 7 miles from their home. They were on their way back home talking about the day prior to impact. He reported slowing down in his travel lane and started to turn left into his gravel driveway when V2 struck his right side causing his truck to rollover into the ditch. He claims to have never seen V1 coming toward him. He also denied any sightline restrictions or obstructions. His truck came to rest on its top in the ditch. He was worried it would catch fire. His truck was towed from the scene with disabling right side damage.