This two-vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane rural north/south roadway with traffic controls at an intersection south of the crash site. The roadway is divided by a painted median with one lane in each direction. On the west side of the roadway, southbound traffic was dry, straight, bituminous and downhill with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). At the location, the southbound lane widens for a left turn only lane ahead. This crash occurred during daylight hours with congested traffic.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1990 Honda Accord four-door with one occupant, was southbound in lane one going straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Lincoln Navigator with one occupant, was southbound in lane one, in front of V1 stopped in traffic for a red light. V2 had been stopped for 3-4 seconds prior to impact. The driver of V1 locked up the brakes for 5.2 meters (17 feet) before the front of V1 struck the rear of V2. V1 traveled off the right side of the road and came to rest on its wheels facing south partially in lane one and the gravel shoulder. V2 traveled off the right side road and came to rest on its wheels facing south, partially in lane one and the gravel shoulder. V1 was towed from the scene due to moderate frontal damage. The driver of V2 gave the driver of V1 his information and left the scene. No one was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a twenty-five year old female, had just left work. Very little is known since she ended the interview early. The researcher tried several ways to contact the driver without success.
The driver of V2, a thirty-one year old male was driving from work to a closing on a new home, at the home itself. He stated he was on his cell phone at the time talking to his wife. He is new to the area and was living at a hotel until the closing. He was well rested, drives this route daily and is very familiar with the vehicle. He is in good health and takes Effexor on a regular basis. He never saw V1 prior to impact.