This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. On the east side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a curbed median and the westbound traffic lanes consist of two left-turn lanes and four through lanes. This roadway is straight and downhill in the westbound direction, with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). On the north side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a curbed median and the southbound traffic lanes consist of a left-turn lane and a right-turn/through lane. This roadway is straight and level, with a posted speed limit of 32 kmph (20 mph). This crash occurred in the mid-morning on a weekday.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Chevrolet Geo Prizm with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane one, approaching the intersection at a police reported speed of 64 kmph (40 mph). Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Toyota Tercel with one occupant, was stopped at the intersection, southbound in lane two. The traffic signal indicated a green arrow for southbound traffic and the driver of V2 proceeded forward to turn left. V1 proceeded into the intersection at the same time. The driver of V1 steered left and applied the brakes, but the right side of V1 impacted the front of V2. V1 continued across lane two and into lane three of westbound traffic and came to final rest facing approximately west in lane three, west of the intersection. V1 was moved prior to the researcher's arrival on-scene. V2 rotated clockwise and came to final rest facing south-southwest on the north side of the intersection. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a twenty-nine-year-old male, was commuting from his home to work. He stated that he was adjusting the radio before he noticed that the light was red. He was in a little bit of a hurry because he was running late. He was well rested, very comfortable with his vehicle, and drives this route daily. He takes Depakote and Risperdal on a regular basis for a bipolar condition.
The driver of V2, a twenty-six-year-old female, was commuting from her home to work. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route daily. She takes Lexapro on a regular basis for mild depression.