This two-vehicle crash occurred in a three-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. On the north side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a curbed median and the southbound traffic lanes consist of a right turn lane and two through lanes. This roadway is straight, uphill in the southbound direction, and has a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). On the west side of the intersection, the roadway is undivided with three travel lanes, a left turn lane and a right turn lane for eastbound traffic and a single westbound lane. This roadway is curved right, level, and has a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). This crash occurred in the early afternoon on a weekday; it was just starting to rain. Traffic flow was moderate.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1993 Subaru Impreza with two occupants, was traveling southbound in lane two, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Honda Odyssey with one occupant, was eastbound in lane two, waiting to turn left at the intersection. The traffic signal indicated a green light for eastbound traffic and V2 proceeded into the intersection. The driver of V1 saw V2 and applied the brakes and steered left to avoid a collision, but the front of V1 impacted the front left side of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a sixteen-year-old male, was on an errand driving from school to his friend's house to get his report for his final. The driver was well rested and in good health, but it was his first time driving this vehicle and likely had not driven on this roadway much before since he is not licensed yet. He had intended to turn right at the intersection, but was in lane two as he was approaching it. He was talking to his friend and was distracted from the driving task, by the conversation and the actions of his friend. He stated he was looking to his right prior to the crash at his intended turn he had missed. He was supposed to turn right at the intersection, but missed his turn. When he looked forward again he was about to enter the intersection and saw V2 had entered the intersection.
The driver of V2, a thirty-seven-year-old female, was driving from a friend's house to her own home. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route about once every two weeks. She takes the medications Synthroid, Prilosec, and Lexapro on a regular basis.