The crash occurred in the westbound lane two of a four lane east/west undivided roadway. This was a dry, level and straight road with a posted speed was 56 kmph (35 mph). This was a T-intersection with a north/southbound road located on the south side of the eastbound lane one. Traffic was moderate during the evening hours on a weekday. The skies were clear and the road was lighted at the intersection. There were no control devices at the crash site.
V1, a 1994 Pontiac Grand Am two-door coupe driven by a 27 year-old female. The driver of V1 stated that she was traveling home after leaving her friend's house 10 minutes prior to the crash. She was traveling west in lane two at a rate of 56 kmph (35 mph) when her cell phone, lying in the passenger's seat, rang. She looked at the cell phone to see who was calling when the front of her vehicle (V1) crashed into the rear of V2. After the crash, V1 continued forward 2 meters were it came to rest in the westbound lane two at the intersection facing west. The driver never saw V2 prior to the crash. The diver was limping from the crash but was not transported. The researcher, tow operator and police officer noticed alcohol on the driver's breath. The driver was not given a BAC test. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2, a 2003 Chevrolet Astro minivan was driven by a 69 year-old male. The driver of V2 stated that he had been traveling home after picking-up a pizza ten minutes prior to the crash. The driver of V2 was attempting to turn left at the intersection and had been stopped in the west bound lane two for 30 seconds, waiting for traffic in the two eastbound lanes to clear when the crash occurred. The force of the crash caused V2 to travel forward 35 meters west, veering left, across the two eastbound lanes and off the the south side of the road, where it came to rest on the grass bordering the eastbound lane one, facing west. The driver never saw V1 prior to the crash. The driver of V2 was uninjured.
Associated factors for the driver include medication for high blood pressure.