This three-vehicle crash occurred at a four-legged urban intersection. East/west traffic had no signals. North/south traffic is controlled with stop signs. There are raised curbs and sidewalks present in all directions. A non-positive raised concrete divider divides the east/west roadway. There are three westbound lanes; two straight lanes and a dedicated left turn lane. There are four eastbound lanes; two straight lanes, and a dedicated right and left turn lane. Westbound approach curves left with an uphill +4.4% grade. Eastbound approach curves right with a downhill -3.9% grade. Northbound approach is straight with a -8% downhill grade. Speed limit for all roads is 72 kph (45 mph). Setting is evening hours on a weekday. Conditions are dusk, clear and dry with light traffic.
Vehicle One is a 2003 Chevrolet Suburban, large utility, with one occupant traveling westbound in lane three, the left turn lane. Vehicle Two is a 2002 Mercury Sable, four-door with two occupants, traveling eastbound in lane two. Vehicle Three is a 1997 Acura 3.2 TL, four-door, with two occupants stopped in northbound lane one. V1 slowed to a stop in the left turn lane. V1 then accelerated and proceeded to turn left into the path of V2. V2 applied its brakes without lock-up and struck the right side of V1 in the intersection with its front plane (event 1). V1 accelerated and steered left to avoid a collision with V2. V1 then traveled 15.7 meters (52 feet) south and struck the front plane of V3 (who was stopped) with its front plane (event 2). V1 pushed V3 backwards 2.3 meters (8 feet) and came to final rest against each other. V2 after impact spun 90 degrees clockwise and came to final rest at the point of impact in its original travel lane facing south. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1 is 50 year-old male who was arrested on-scene for driving under the influence of alcohol. His daughter showed up on-scene and provided a partial interview. His 51st birthday is the following weekend, but she says he's been celebrating all week long. She said he was at an unknown bar approximately 5 miles from the crash scene drinking with some friends when she called him up and advised that the car that he had just bought her today broke down and that she was stranded on the side of the road. He told her he was on his way to get her and that he was very upset about the car breaking down. About 15 minutes later he called her and told her she needs to come to the crash scene right away. She never got a description of the crash from her father. She advises that he owns his own manufacturing business, which he works 55 hours per week at. She says he is always stressed out from work and the fact that he has a teenage daughter in college. His car was towed from the scene with non-disabling right and front side damage.
The driver of V2 is a 61 year-old female who was transported from the scene with minor injuries. She is a full-time high school teacher who was on her way home from a water aerobics class that she takes with her mother 3 times weekly. She was driving straight ahead at 56 kph (35 mph) in lane two, the right straight lane. As she came down the hill, she noticed V1 stopped in the opposing left turn lane. As she got closer, V1 decided to turn left in front of her. She applied the brakes, which she says didn't lock up, but she didn't remember if ABS kicked in. She claims it happened so fast and unexpectedly that all she could do was try and slow down. She was unsure why the driver of V1 turned in front of her. She thinks because he was impaired that his reflexes must have been diminished. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.
The driver of V3 is an 18 year-old female who was transported from the scene with minor injuries. Her and her fiancée live in a neighboring city about 60 miles away, but were in town visiting and had a hotel room here for the night. They visit several times per month. They just had dinner at a nearby restaurant where the passenger consumed several alcoholic beverages and decided to let his sober fiancée drive. They stopped by the gas station and bought some beer and were leisurely traveling back to their hotel room to watch a movie. They approached the intersection and came to a stop and waited for a break in traffic to continue traveling straight. They were both looking straight ahead and saw V1 turn left in front of V2, causing V2 to t-bone the right side of V1. V1 then traveled into their lane and struck them head-on causing their vehicle to be pushed backwards from a stop. The passenger claims V1 tried to steer right and avoid striking them, but was going to fast to be able avoid the head-on crash. V3 was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.