This two-vehicle rear-end crash occurred approximately 9.6 meters (32 feet) past a signalized intersection on a weekday during afternoon hours. The location was a three-lane divided (without positive barrier) straight asphalt roadway for the westbound lanes. The speed limit is 56 kph (35 mph) for the east-west direction. There was medium traffic. The weather was clear and the roads dry.
Vehicle two (V2), a 1985 Mercedes 380 with one occupant, was stopped in lane one of the eastbound lanes past the intersection. V2 ran out of gas and was disabled. The hazard lights were flashing. The driver remained in the vehicle. Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Mazda 626 with one occupant was traveling west in the first lane of traffic. While approaching the intersection, the driver of V1 received a phone call and the front of V1 struck the back of V2. V2 was pushed forward and came to rest partially in lane one and two. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
A 41-year old female drove V1. She said she received a phone call from her alarm company while approaching the intersection. This phone call concerned a burglar alarm at her home. The driver was so anxious at the scene that she could not remember if she stopped at this intersection or the one prior. She stated she wore prescription sunglasses. The driver said she had a bad previous twenty-four hours, involving a late return to her home from the airport after a weeklong trip. At her home she locked herself out and had to stay in a hotel the night before the crash. At the time of the crash, she was heading to pick up her daughter and then go home. The driver does not take any medication, was well rested and in good health. She had been driving for 12 minutes at the time of the crash. She rarely drives the route but is familiar with the vehicle. This driver claimed she was looking ahead, saw V2 but did not realize it was stopped till too late.
A 43-year old male drove V2. The driver is physically disabled and uses a wheelchair. Self-made handicap driving equipment was installed in his vehicle. This consisted of two separate aluminum sticks taped to the brake and gas pedals. This equipment was not in use at the time of the crash. The driver was on this roadway for the first time. He ran out of gas and his vehicle was stalled in the first lane of traffic with its hazard lights operating. At the time of the impact, the driver was talking on his cell phone. He was arguing with a roadside service about their response to his emergency.