The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a high occupancy, high volume, and high-speed interstate highway. There were five lanes running northbound with both right and left side paved emergency shoulders. There were concrete wall barriers separating the southbound traffic. The road widths were a standard 3.7 meters and the emergency-paved shoulders were 3.5 meters. The road was straight and level. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekend night. The posted speed was a 105 KPH (65 MPH).
V1 was a 2002 Ford Explorer that was traveling in lane three heading northbound. The driver of V1 made a lane change into lane four and hit the right side of V2 causing V2 to rotate clockwise across four lanes of traffic and come to final rest in lane one facing southbound. The driver of V1 fled the scene but was later located one exit up on the exit ramp. V1 one was arrested, charged with a DUI, having an expired license, was an illegal immigrant, and also cited for fleeing a vehicle crash. V1 was towed due to damages and no one was injured. He was cited for improper lane change, no motor vehicle registration, and no tag. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1 was a 22-year-old male who was on his way home from a friend's party. The driver of V1 stated that he did not realize he had hit another vehicle. He stated that he was traveling northbound in lane three when he experienced a tire blow out and then managed to get off at the next exit when he called a friend for help with the tire. A witness to the crash followed him and found him outside of the vehicle with vomit on the side of the driver's side door. The driver also smelled of alcohol and was giving a sobriety test on scene. The driver denied hitting anyone and admitted he had only "2 cups of Remy Martin". The driver also had an expired license. He was charged with the crash and his vehicle was towed due to damages.
V2 was driven by a 39-year-old woman who was traveling northbound in lane four when her father who was in the back seat with her son saw a red truck cutting into there lane from lane three. There was nothing V2 could do to avoid the crash and she did not see V1 change into her lane. The driver stated they were running an errand and had just picked up her father from his job in Miami. The driver of V2 stated that when V1 hit her right rear side it caused her to rotate to the right and make one single turn until she made final rest in lane one facing on-coming traffic. The driver then moved her vehicle to the right hand emergency shoulder. She stated that the vehicle that hit her took off and fled the scene. All she said she knew was it was a red truck that hit her from the right rear. She was not injured and her vehicle was not towed due to damages.