This single vehicle crash occurred on a two-way, two-lane, roadway. There is one southbound and northbound lane. The lanes are not separated. The speed limit on the roadway is posted 56 kmph (35 mph). The roadway was straight, dry and constructed of asphalt at the time of this night crash. The roadway is dark and not lighted. There is ambient lighting from an apartment complex across the street where the crash occurred.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Toyota Tacoma pickup with one occupant, was traveling northbound on the roadway. The vehicle departed the left side of the roadway and struck a concrete water station approximately 3 meters (9.8 feet) off the left side of the edge of the roadway. The vehicle came to an immediate stop after it struck the concrete water station. The vehicle was towed due to damage. EMS personnel transported the driver from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1.
A twenty one (21) year old male drove V1. The driver said that before the crash, he was at a friend's house drinking beer. He said that when he left, he called a friend and met her a car wash about 6.4 kilometers (4 miles) from his friend's house. He said that he left after talking with her for a while. He said that he was traveling west on a roadway and the road turned to the right. He said that just before he got to the turn. He was looking for a CD on the visor above him. He then made the turn and he heard his cell phone ring. He began to look for the cell phone and said that he did not straighten out the steering wheel. He said that he went off the road and hit the water station. He said that he felt a little drunk when he left his friends house before the crash. He was in a hurry to take his friends truck back because his friend had kept calling him telling him to bring his truck back. He said that the night before the crash, he slept in a hotel with some friends after drinking beer until 3 am. He woke up 4 hours later and has not slept since. The driver said that he has asthma but it does not effect his driving. The driver does not have any medical conditions.