A two-vehicle collision occurred in the mid-morning during daylight hours, on a Wednesday. The collision occurred in a busy intersection. The north - south leg of the intersection has 6 lanes, and the posted speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph). The east - west leg of the intersection has 5 lanes, and the posted speed limit is 64 kmph (40 mph). The pre-crash roadway in each direction is straight and level, with bituminous paving. It was clear, and dry. Access to the roadway is not controlled.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Chevrolet S-10 Blazer 2-door with one occupant, was headed southbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Honda Element with two occupants, was eastbound in lane two passing through the same intersection. As V1 approached the red light at the intersection, she nodded off to sleep. V1 entered the intersection on the red light, and the driver opened her eyes again a split second before being hit on the right side by the front of V2. V1 rotated counter-clockwise, V2 clockwise and the vehicles side slapped. V1 traveled to the southeast corner of the intersection where it came to rest in a private parking lot. V2 traveled in a southeast direction. Then drove off the roadway into the same private parking lot. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. The driver of V1 was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 was a 26 year-old female who is reportedly in good health, with no hearing or sight restrictions. She is very familiar with both the roadway and the vehicle as she drives both daily. She did not know she is not licensed. She had just left her home about 45 minutes prior to the collision, and was driving around locally looking for the insurance office to get her vehicle insured. She was unable to locate the business, so she was heading home to get her husband to go with her. She was extremely tired from only having ½ hour of sleep the night before, as her baby is teething and would not go to sleep and was really fussy. She felt fine when she left the house, but was getting very tired when she decided to return home.
The driver of V2 is 56 year-old male whose pre-crash factors are unknown as he was unable to be reached for interview.