This crash occurred at an intersection with 2 lanes of travel one in each direction. The roadway was dry asphalt. The north/south lanes of travel were level. The lanes on the east side of the intersection are level. The lanes on the west side of the intersection had a positive slope of 3/122. East / West lanes speed was posted at 40 kmph (25 mph). These lanes were controlled by passive stop signs. The north / south lane had no stop sign. The speed for these lanes was posted at 56 kmph (35mph).
Vehicle #1 a 1996 Mercury Mountaineer traveled east not stopping for the stop sign entering the intersection contacting vehicle #2 a 2007 Chevrolet Impala causing both vehicles to rotate and contact side panels. V1 skidded across a lawn and through a fence and came to final rest on top of a large tree stump. V2 came to final rest to the east side of the intersection. All occupants of both vehicles were transported to the local trauma units due to injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
A 31 year-old female drove vehicle #1. She stated she is in good health but is being treated for high blood pressure and depression. She also stated she is taking medications for her conditions. She also stated that she does wear corrective lenses for astigmatism. She stated that she had just dropped off the father of her children who started walking along the north side of the road at the curb. She stated they were arguing quite aggressively and she was crying just before the crash. She stated that the father started to walk out towards the vehicle using harsh words so she accelerated not knowing how close to the intersection she was. She stated with her eyes full of tears she noticed a vehicle coming from her right. She steered to the left and accelerated trying to cross the intersection but contacted the northbound vehicle then rotating and traveling up into a front yard of a home on the northeast corner of the intersection.
A 46 year-old female drove vehicle #2. She stated that she is in fair health and is taking medications for her conditions. She also stated she does not wear corrective lenses at this time. She stated that she and her son had just left a scout meeting and had picked up her daughter from college and were going to stop at the store just up the road before taking the daughter home. She stated that she saw a flash of light to her left and then does not remember any thing until the vehicle came to final rest. She stated she could hear her son asking if he could take off his seatbelt and get out of the vehicle he did not want to get burned. This driver gave this researcher a statement on scene stating she did not want to leave her vehicle unwatched. She was going to have it towed to her home just down the roadway. She stated that one of the persons that came to her aid said that the person that was driving V1 had run down the street and was down by her home.
The witness stated that he is a city bus driver and that he was about 50 yards north of the intersection stopped at one of his bus stops. He stated he saw the eastbound vehicle accelerating and knew it was not going to stop for its stop sign. He stated after impact he drove his bus to the intersection and blocked the roadway until the EMS and Police came to the scene. He stated that there were children in V1 and that the mother was getting them out of the vehicle and laying them on the ground next to her vehicle.
The person that owned the home where V1 came to final rest stated he heard a loud bang and when he came out of his front door he saw the vehicle on his lawn and the children lying there. He stated he did not see vehicle #2 he thought that V1 had gone out of control and ran over the children. He said this is what he told 911 dispatches.