This two-vehicle crash occurred in a five-leg, stop sign controlled for east and westbound traffic, intersection. On the east side of the intersection, the roadway has two lanes, one in each direction. On the north side of the intersection, the roadway is undivided with seven lanes, with southbound traffic consisting of two through lanes and one left turn lane. The roadways are straight, bituminous and level for both west and southbound travel. The posted speed limit for westbound is 48 kmph (30 mph) and for southbound it is 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred during late morning, daylight hours.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Ford E-350 with two occupants, was westbound in lane one crossing the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1986 Chevrolet G-10 with one occupant, was southbound in lane one going straight. V1, after stopping at a stop sign, proceeded into the intersection to go straight at the same time V2 entered the intersection. The driver of V1 steered to the left to avoid hitting V2 and with its front, impacted V2's left side. Both vehicles stayed engaged to final rest, with V1 coming to rest on its wheels facing southwest in lane two, the through lane, and V2 coming to rest in lane one, a right merge lane, on its wheels facing south. V1 was driven from the scene and V2 was towed with moderate left side damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a thirty-four year old female, was driving a company van converted into a handicap bus. There is unknown information about the driver or circumstances because her manager refused for her to talk to anyone. Vehicle dynamics indicate the driver of V1 steered hard to the left just prior to impact, indicating the driver was not aware of V2's presence prior to that. This suggests the driver did not look to the right in V1's direction, inadequate surveillance.
The driver of V2, a sixty-eight year old male, was driving from the state motor vehicle department to his insurance company. He stated he was homeless and was living with a friend for now. He was well rested and very familiar with the vehicle. Medical records indicate the following medical history for this driver: hypertension, COPD, depression, restless leg syndrome, and diabetes. Medical records did not provide a list of current medications; however, the driver stated he takes Lisinopril and Clonidine on a regular basis. He is unsure whether he is near or far-sighted, but was wearing his photo-gray glasses. The driver stated that he was driving down the roadway going straight and never saw V1 prior to impact.