The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a one-way, urban roadway just before a four-legged signal-controlled intersection. Only south and westbound travel was permitted through the intersection. At the crash location there were two southbound lanes and a parking lane to the left of those lanes. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph) and the southbound approach had a 2 percent uphill grade. The westbound approach had two lanes of travel and was set on a 3 percent uphill grade. Conditions were daylight and dry with clear skies. The setting was mid-morning hours on a weekday.
Vehicle one was a 2003 Chevrolet Express van traveling southbound in lane two. Vehicle two was a 2003 Honda Element sport utility traveling westbound in lane one approaching the intersection. V2 arrived at the intersection and turned right, traveling northbound onto the one-way southbound street in V1's lane. The front of V1 impacted the front of V2. Both vehicles came to rest in the intersection south of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.
The Chevrolet Express van (V1) was driven by a 35-year old male who was transported to a local trauma center with non-incapacitating injuries. He stated that he was heading to his first jobsite of the day when another vehicle entered his lane and collided with him head on. He didn't have a chance to react in avoidance. He estimated his travel and impact speeds to be 56 kmph (35 mph). The Chevrolet van was towed due to damage.
The Honda Element (V2) was driven by a 42-year old female who was uninjured. She refused to be interviewed for the study, both on scene and over the phone. It appeared that she came to the intersection with a one-way street and then inadvertently turned right into oncoming traffic. She appeared to have steered right in avoidance. Her final rest position indicated that she moved her vehicle before police arrived. The investigating officer estimated her travel and impact speeds to be 24 kmph (15 mph). The Honda sport utility was towed due to damage.