This two-vehicle crash occurred along a straight stretch of north/south interstate. Northbound approach is straight and level with two travel lanes. There is a paved shoulder on the west side of the road and paved breakdown lane on the east side. The surface type is concrete with rumble strips present on both sides. A grass median with cable guardrails divides north/south traffic. The posted speed limit is 104 kph (65 mph). Setting was morning hours on a weekday. Conditions were daylight, clear and dry. Traffic was heavy due to morning rush hour congestion.
Vehicle One is a 1990 Nissan 300ZX, two-door, subcompact with one occupant traveling northbound in lane one. Vehicle Two is an unknown year Ford Econoline utility van with one occupant traveling northbound in lane two. V1 started loosing control in lane one while traveling at a high rate of speed. V1 changed lanes to the left and contacted the back, right plane of V2 with its left, front plane (event 1). V1 steered right to try and avoid the collision with V2 but failed and began a clockwise rotation (yaw). V1 then departed the road on the right side and struck four trees with its left side (event 2, 3, 4, 5). V1 left 77 meters (253 feet) of yaw marks prior to impact with the trees. V1 then came to final rest 3 meters (10 feet) from the tree impact facing west. V2 drove to the left shoulder and parked after impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is 129 kmph for V1 and 129 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1 is an 18 year-old male who suffered evident injuries and was transported to the trauma center for treatment. His brother/owner of the vehicle provided me with a complete interview. He tells me that his brother is new to the country from Mexico and doesn't speak English. The brother said that normally he drives himself and his brother/driver about 35 miles to work everyday, but because it was his birthday, he wasn't going to work that day. The driver decided to not wake his brother up for a ride to work but to take the keys and drive himself to work. The brother never lets the driver drive his cars because they are too "FAST." The driver departed their residence for work in a car he has never driven before on a road that he only rarely drives. The driver did admit that he was traveling above the speed limit on the interstate, but couldn't give an exact speed. The driver remembered losing control of the car, but couldn't recall why the control lose occurred. He also couldn't remember if he hit a second vehicle or not, yet he did remember steering to the right. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling left side damage.
The driver of V2 is a 59-year-old male who was not injured in this crash. He was in lane two traveled at an estimated 96 kph (60 mph) according to official records. This driver was unable to be reached for an interview. His vehicle suffered minor damage and was driven from the scene.