The crash occurred in the westbound lanes of a four-lane roadway divided by a grassy median. There were two lanes in each direction. The roadway was curved to the left (radius of curvature 418 m; 4% super-elevation), level, asphalt, dry, with a posted speed limit of 89 kph (55 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday morning during rush hour while traffic flow was light under clear skies.
V1, a 2005 International 4400 tractor truck, towing a Pratt flatbed trailer loaded with 1.5 tons of roof trusses, had one occupant and was traveling westbound in lane two. V2, a 1979 Chevy Blazer two-door SUV with three occupants was traveling westbound in lane one slightly behind V1. V1 intended to make a right turn into a driveway and due to its overall length had to swing far to the left of the roadway before initiating the turn. V1 began to turn as V2 was overtaking it in the right lane and was about even with the rear of the trailer. V2 braked with lockup as it veered to the right. It skidded longitudinally to the right edge of lane one and the shoulder where it's front end struck the right side of the power unit of V1. After impact both vehicles left the road on the right side and down (a 29% slope) and across a drainage ditch. They came to rest still making contact with each other about 13 m from the point of impact facing northwest straddling the ditch. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the International tractor/trailer, was driven by a 58-year old male who was not injured. He advised that he had started out in lane one before moving to lane two as he approached the driveway to make a delivery for his company. He reported that in order to make the turn he had to turn from lane two because of the size of his combined vehicle. He said he had his turn signals on as he watched for traffic behind him to his right in his rear view mirror. He said he saw V2 but thought he could safely make the turn. He added that before he could complete the turn V2 struck the right side of his vehicle and they went off the road.
V2, the Chevy Blazer, was driven by a 43-year old male who along with his two male passengers was coded for non-incapacitating injuries. They were all transported to a hospital. The driver reported that he had been behind V1 and watched it move from lane one to lane two traveling very slow. He advised that he was traveling about 89 kph (55 mph) and was overtaking V1. He reported that V1 did not signal before starting to turn right across his path. Trying to avoid a collision and looking for a way out V2 braked and steered to the right but ran into the side of V1.