The crash occurred on a southbound four-lane interstate divided by a guardrail (there were four lanes southbound and four lanes northbound). The roadway was straight with a 2 percent uphill slope and a posted speed of 89 kmph (55 mph). The sky was cloudy with light rain and the road was wet during this early afternoon weekday. This was a heavily traveled roadway but the traffic was moderate at the time.
V1, a 2001 Ford Explorer utility vehicle, was driven by a 32-year old female traveling with a 23-year old female friend. V1 was traveling south in lane two when V1 began to fishtail. The driver steered right and left in an attempt to regain control while V1 continued to fishtail. V1 then began to rotate counterclockwise 90 degrees over the left lane line. Already occupying the third lane of travel was a 2006 Kenwood dump truck driven by a 52-year old male. The driver of V2 had been traveling slightly behind V1 in the adjacent lane when V1 started to fishtail. The driver of V2 stated that the driver of V1 began to over steer, first to the right and then to the left and right again. As V2 passed by V1, V1 was no longer in view. The driver of V2 thought he was safely clear of V1 until the crash when the left front side of V1 collided into the right rear tire of V2. The force of the collision caused V1 to rotate clockwise 90 degrees and forward 50 meters prior to coming to rest facing south in lane two. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
Both occupants of V1 were interviewed later at the hospital and both stated that they didn't know what happened.
The driver of V2 stated that he was traveling south in lane three at about 80 kmph (50 mph) when he saw and began tracking V1, located in the adjacent right lane and slightly ahead of his vehicle, also traveling about 80 kmph (50 mph). He stated that V1 was fishtailing, apparently out of control. Due to surrounding traffic, the driver was unable to change lanes and distance V2 from the increasing threat of V1. After the crash, the driver drove V2 across the right lanes and onto the right shoulder facing south.