This three-vehicle crash occurred on a curbed median-divided trafficway. The eastbound approach is level, curved to the right and consists of two through lanes with a paved shoulder on the right. The westbound approach is straight, level and consists of two through lanes with a paved shoulder on the right. The speed limit for this trafficway is 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Buick Riviera, was eastbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Toyota Camry, was westbound in lane two and vehicle three (V3), a 1993 GMC C1500 pickup, was westbound in lane one. V1 traveled to the right and departed the roadway. The driver abruptly steered left and V1 returned to the roadway, rotating counterclockwise. V1 traveled to the northeast, across the median and entered the westbound lanes. The right side of V1 was struck by the front of V2. The front of V1 then struck the left side of V3. V1 traveled off the north side of the roadway and the front struck a fence. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a nineteen-year-old female, was traveling with her twenty-five-year-old boyfriend. The boyfriend is a dog breeder and they were on their way to the airport to ship a puppy. This driver has one year of driving experience. She was well rested, healthy and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. She travels this route monthly. This driver was arguing with her passenger prior to the crash. She stated, "I was mad so I was driving fast."
The driver of V2, a fifty-two-year-old female, was not interviewed. Her son provided some information. This driver was on her way to work from her home. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. No further information is available for this driver.
The driver of V3, a forty-two-year-old female, had picked up her forty-three-year-old husband from work and they were on their way home. This driver was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. She travels this route daily.