This two-vehicle crash occurred in a three-way intersection with no traffic controls. On the south side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a curbed median and the northbound traffic lanes consist of two through lanes and a left turn lane that provides access onto a state highway. On the north side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a curbed median and the southbound traffic lanes consist of two through lanes and a right turn lane. This roadway is straight, level, and has a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with rush hour congestion.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Chevrolet Silverado with one occupant, was stopped in lane three of northbound traffic, waiting to make a left turn. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Pontiac Grand Am with one occupant, was southbound in lane two, approaching the intersection. Traffic stopped in lane three southbound to allow V1 to make its left turn. The driver of V1 proceeded to turn left at the same time that V2 was passing through the intersection. Neither driver attempted evasive maneuvers and the front of V1 struck the front of V2. Both vehicles came to rest in the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Neither of the drivers was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a forty-two-year-old male, was coming from a friend's house and going to pick up his daughter. He is in good health, was well rested, feels very comfortable with his vehicle, but drives this route rarely. He said that he was unable to see clearly around a pickup stopped in lane three going southbound and didn't see V2 until right before impact. He also stated his brakes were not as responsive as they might have been had it not been so cold.
The driver of V2, a seventeen-year-old female, was coming from a friend's house and going to meet her boyfriend. She is in good health, was well rested, drives this route daily, and is very familiar with her vehicle. She also didn't see V1 because of a large truck stopped in lane three.