The crash occurred in the southbound lane of a two-way, two-lane undivided roadway. This was a straight, level, asphalt street with a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.
V1, a 1996 Ford Ranger pickup with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane one. V2, a 2005 Mercedes Benz S430 with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane one. V1's driver relinquished control of the vehicle. V1 made a lane departure to the left, followed by a road departure to the left, before reentering the left side (southbound lane) of the roadway. As V1 reentered the roadway, the front right corner of V1 made contact with the right side of V2. After impact, V1 continued northbound, coming to final rest off the right side (east edge) of the roadway. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
The Ford Ranger was driven by a 70-year old male who was transported to the hospital due to a medical condition. He stated that he was on his way home from McDonald's when he experienced a minor stroke. The driver said that he felt as though he was not in control of his vehicle whatsoever. At the hospital, the driver was informed that he had struck another vehicle. However, he could not recall specific details about the crash due to the stroke.
The Mercedes S430 was driven by a 47-year old female who was not injured. She stated that she had just dropped her daughter off at the beach, on her way to the mall from her house. As she approached the oncoming vehicle, the driver indicated that she started to notice something odd about the behavior and movement of the other vehicle. Unsure of the oncoming vehicle's intentions, the driver proceeded with caution. She watched as the other driver slowly drifted across her travel lane onto the side of the road. She thought maybe the other driver was planning to park alongside the street. But as she prepared to pass, she could see that he had reentered the roadway and was coming right at her. She tried to steer left, away from the other driver, but was hit down the right side of her car.