This two-vehicle crash occurred in the afternoon of a weekday in the middle of a 4-way intersection located in the heart of an urban neighborhood. The intersection consisted of a 2-lane north/south road and a 2-lane east/west road with the north/south traffic having stop signs for its direction. The southbound road is straight with a negative 9% slope and a speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph) while the westbound road is straight with a positive 6% slope and a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The road was dry and the weather conditions were clear and daylight.
V1, a 1994 GMC Sierra K1500 with one occupant, was southbound approaching the intersection where it stopped and intended to go straight. V2, a 1981 Chevrolet C1500 with one occupant, was westbound approaching the same intersection intending to go straight. Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the front of V2 struck the left side of V1. V2 left approximately 20 meters of skid marks on the road indicating he tried to avoid the crash. Both drivers were transported from the scene for minor injuries and both vehicles were towed from scene but only V2 was towed due to disabling damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1 is an 80-year-old male that works 40 hours each week as a home repairperson and reports to be in good health, other than wearing eyeglasses and a hearing aid. This driver was leaving a home that he was working at this morning and had to drive 3-5 blocks to another job site. As he was driving south through this neighborhood, he stopped at this intersection and looked in all directions before he proceeded forward. Once he slowly entered the intersection, he was struck in the left front corner by V2. The collision caused this driver to slam his head into the driver window, knocking him unconscious and causing an egg-sized bruise above his left temple. This driver said he never saw the truck before the crash nor did he hear the V2's tire squealing-despite wearing a new hearing aid. He said he is familiar with the intersection and that he hates driving in that area of town because the houses are too close to the road and everybody parks on the street.
The driver of V2 is a 58-year-old male that is a seasonal worker for a barbeque vendor. This driver said he was driving to work this morning when he saw V1 "creep" into the roadway from the intersecting side street. This driver said he was looking at the other driver's head as he was approaching him and that the other driver never looked in his direction. This driver states that V1 stopped at the intersection, looked west only, and then began to slowly go straight across the intersection. This driver claimed his own speed was 42 mph when V1 entered the intersection and that he slammed on his brakes (locked-up) but he could not stop because there was so much tree pollen on the street that his truck slid 40-50 feet before it struck the left side of V1.