This 3-vehicle crash occurred in the morning of a weekday on a 2-lane undivided roadway in a rural area. At the location of this crash, the roadway runs east and west with of posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). There were no adverse conditions, it was daylight, and the traffic level was low for morning commuters.
V1, a 1994 Chevrolet Blazer with one occupant, was eastbound and V2, a 2000 Chevrolet Impala with one occupant, was westbound. V1 entered the westbound lane and struck the left side of V2 (event #1), which caused V2 to spin counterclockwise and strike a mailbox (event #2), that was positioned off the westbound roadside. V2 came to final rest in the middle of the roadway facing the southeast direction. After the sideswipe collision between V1 and V2, V1 continued east in the westbound lane and struck V3 (event #3) head-on. V3, a 2001 Mitsubishi Eclipse with one occupant, came to final rest off the eastbound roadway facing the northwest direction. Following the crash with V3, V1 departed the roadway, where it struck a mailbox, street sign, and mile marker (events #4,5,6). V1 came to final rest north of the roadway facing the southwest direction. The drivers of V1 and V2 were transported from the scene for injuries suffered in the crash. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1 and 97 kmph for V2.
This driver of V1 is a 23-year-old male that was driving to work this morning when he was involved in this crash. He said he does not have a driver license and he normally has his girlfriend or a co-worker drive him to work but he did not have a ride to work this morning so he drove himself. He left for work and drove about five miles before his steering wheel suddenly started pulling to the left. He said he had rounded a curve in the road, and when he came out of it, his wheels pulled to the left. The curve in the road for his direction is almost a mile from the crash site. He said he had his radio on loud and could not hear anything "pop" or "snap" in the steering assembly before his truck began to pull to the left. He thought he would drive into a ditch but V2 was traveling in the opposite direction and the two vehicles sideswiped. Following that sideswipe, this driver continued straight in the opposite lane where it struck V3 head-on. He said he applied the ABS before the crash with V3, not before the first crash with V2.
The driver of V2 is an 18 year old female that was not interviewed for this crash. Several in-person attempts were made and plenty of phone messages were not returned. She lives on the same roadway as the crash, which is less than 2 miles away.
The driver of V3 is an 18-year-old female and senior in high school who woke up this morning at her normal time but instead of driving straight to school, she drove to a fellow student's home that needed a ride to school. She was driving on a road she rarely travels and less than 2 miles from her destination when she was involved in this crash. She was driving west when V1 crossed the double yellow lines and sideswiped V2. This driver did not see the initial collision between V1 and V2 and only saw the Blazer after she rounded a curve. She slammed on her brakes but could not avoid crashing into V1.