This crash occurred at the intersection of two residential roads. One road ran north/south and, the other ran east/west. Both were straight with two lanes (one each direction) and no painted lines on either road. The north/south road had a two-way stop sign and no traffic controls for the east/west road. The east/west road was level and the north/south road had a very slight positive grade (less than 2%). The southwest corner of the intersection had a large vacant building, which seemed to block northbound traffic's view to the west until at the stop sign and this building also blocked eastbound traffics view of the south leg of the intersection until in the intersection. A vacant lot bordered the northeast corner of the intersection. The speed limit for both vehicles was 48kph/30mph. The crash occurred around noon on a weekend under daylight and dry conditions.
V1 was a 1998 GMC Jimmy SUV traveling north on the north/south road when as it passed into the intersection (no braking) it struck the right side of V2 with its V1's) front. V2 was a 2003 Chevrolet Impala that had been traveling east on the east west road at the time of impact. V1 then rotated about 90 degrees clockwise and came to rest facing east in the westbound lane of the east/west road about 14 meters northeast of impact. V2 traveled northeast into the vacant lot and came to rest facing north about 24 meters from impact. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a 39-year-old unrestrained female (whose airbags did not deploy), was transported to a medical facility with minor injuries. Her two teenage sons were also in the vehicle with her at the time but neither sustained any injuries in the crash. The passenger in the right front seat was on a cell phone at the time of the crash. The driver stated she has a debilitating muscular disorder as well as insomnia for which she takes several medications. Her medical conditions according to her can interfere with her driving. The driver of V1 stated that she stopped at her stop sign but both vehicle and scene evidence indicated otherwise (no brake activation at a speed of about 30mph).
The driver of V2, a 62-year-old belted male was transported for treatment of non-incapacitating injuries. He stated that he was on his way home from shopping at the time of the crash. He did not see V1 until the last minute when it was too late to try and avoid the crash.