This two-vehicle crash occurred during the early afternoon hours of a weekday. The collision took place at a T-intersection on an urban roadway. The main roadway (north/south) was an undivided two-lane roadway with parking allowed on either side of the street. It has a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The intersecting road was a small one-lane, one-way residential street (westbound) with no posted speed limit. Vehicles were parked on both sides of this street. It should be noted that the left-front and left-rear tires of the parked vehicles were physically on the sidewalk of this roadway (left side). A stop sign controlled traffic on the westbound roadway; there was no traffic control device on the north/south roadway. The surface type for both roadways was that of bituminous asphalt. Both roadways were flat, dry, and level, without any indications of physical damage. Weather conditions were mainly sunny with intermittent clouds.
Vehicle one, a 1999 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan, was traveling northbound in lane one of the main roadway and made contact with vehicle two, a 1999 Chevy Monte Carlo coupe, which was traveling westbound. The driver of V2 pulled out from the stop sign, intending to turn left onto the north/south roadway. The front right of V1 struck the left front side of V2. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.
V1 had full deployment of both frontal airbags and sustained disabling damages to its front right. Consequently, V1 had to be towed away from the accident scene. V2 was struck on its left front side, suffering minor to moderate damage. V2 was driven away from the accident scene. The driver of V1 complained of minor back pain, but refused to be evaluated by EMS personnel (EMS dispatch was cancelled before their arrival). The driver of V2 was unharmed from this collision. Neither of the two vehicles had any other occupants.
The driver of V1, a 34 year-old male in generally good health, stated this was his first-ever automobile accident. The car he was driving belonged to that of his girlfriend, which was where he was intending on going on this particular leg of his trip. The driver resides approximately five blocks away from where he was intending on going. The driver was very familiar with the roadway. According to the driver's account, he was traveling northbound at approximately 25 mph (40 kmph) when V2 entered his travel path "out of nowhere." The driver went on to state he had no time to react as the crash occurred. The driver did not attempt to perform any avoidance maneuvers, nor did he have an opportunity to apply his brakes. The driver reported that he was "stressed" from a relationship with his girlfriend, but was adamant about this not being a factor for the accident.
The driver of V2, a 41 year-old male, also stated that this was his first-ever automobile accident. Driver two was unemployed at the time of the crash and claimed he was on work disability. Driver two also stated he is currently taking Xanax, but said he did not take any on the day of the accident. Driver two, who resides on the same street of the accident, was headed to a check-cashing establishment when the crash occurred. According to the driver's account, he was traveling westbound on his residential street and was stopped at a stop sign. Driver stated he was stopped for approximately fifteen seconds before he began to "creep up" into the intersection. His intention was to make the left turn onto the main roadway. Driver noted that a vehicle was parked in a "no parking box" on the left hand side of the main roadway. He went on to say that it was difficult for him to check the traffic as the illegally parked vehicle blocked his sightline. As he crept forward, V1 struck the left side (front fender area) of his vehicle. Driver two did not attempt to perform any avoidance maneuvers, nor did he have an opportunity to apply his brakes. It is also important to note that the windows of V2 were all tinted (drivers reported they are 15 percent - aftermarket). In addition, the two front windows of this coupe were partially rolled down (about one-quarter of the way down). It is unknown whether or not this played a role in the accident.