The crash occurred in the intersection of a 7-lane divided roadway and a one-way 3-lane roadway. The east/west roadway was divided by a curbed median and had four lanes in the westbound direction. The westbound section of the roadway curved slightly to the right. The northbound roadway had three lanes and had a slight uphill grade. The posted speed limit on the east/west roadway was 72 kmph (45 mph). It was the mid-evening and traffic flow was light.
V1, a 2004 Toyota Camry four-door sedan, was driven by a 44-year old female traveling with two children. V1 was stopped northbound at the intersection waiting for the traffic light to turn green. A police vehicle passed through the intersection going west before V1's light turned green. After the light turned green, V1 entered the intersection, heading north with the intention of entering the metro station. V1 was then struck on its right front side by the front of V2. V2 was another police emergency vehicle. V1 was pushed 45 degrees counterclockwise and came to final rest facing west. The driver of V1 stated that she was sitting at the light when it was red. She said she saw a police vehicle pass through the intersection traveling west. She said her light then turned green and she proceeded into the intersection. She said all of the sudden she was struck by a vehicle on the right side of her car. She and her two passengers were all transported due to possible injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2, a 2006 Ford Crown Victoria police interceptor, was driven by a 33-year old male. He stated that he and another police officer were responding to an emergency call. He said that the other police vehicle had slowed down and went through the red light, and he was following about 30 yards behind when V1 entered the intersection, with no kind of regard or respect for the emergency lights flashing. He said he slammed on the brakes but still had no time to react because he didn't think that someone would actually enter the intersection without yielding to the police cars. He said he had his lights on so there was no reason for her not to see him. He said that the impact happened so fast and he was a little incoherent. He was transported due to injuries.