This two-vehicle crash occurred in the evening at an intersection for an intrastate interchange. The intersection consisted of two multi-lane roadways and an exit/entrance ramp controlled by a properly functioning traffic signal. The main thoroughfare was a north/south urban road that was straight, level and had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The roadway was divided by a raised curb median. There were three southbound lanes on the south side of the intersection and five northbound lanes on the north side of the intersection. The roadway was dry, the weather was clear, and the roadway was illuminated by streetlamps.
V1, a 1995 Honda Accord wagon with one occupant, was southbound in lane three approaching the intersection where it intended to turn left. V2, a 1997 Dodge Caravan with three occupants, was northbound in lane one approaching the same intersection where it intended to go straight. V1 and V2 both entered the intersection at the same time and V1 turned left in front of V2. The front of V2 struck the right side of V2 and V2 subsequently rolled one-quarter time and came to rest on its left side. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1 was a 26-year-old male who did not have to work today and had a few errands to run. He began his errands this evening by stopping at his workplace to get some money before he drove to a supermarket to purchase groceries for the week. While on his way to the market, he approached this intersection/interchange, which had a green light for his direction. He was driving his uncle's Honda wagon and slowed as he approached the intersection but he never stopped because there was very little traffic on the road and the intersection was clear. He saw a minivan (V2) traveling in the opposite direction when he decided to execute a left turn. He assumed the minivan (V2) was in the far right lane (highway entrance lane) and would have to yield to him if they both entered the entrance lane at the same time. After almost completing the left turn maneuver, he was struck in the right side by the V2. This driver admitted he made a decision error to turn left but denied that he was not paying attention or was distracted prior to the crash.