This two-vehicle crash occurred in the southbound lanes several feet before an approaching intersection. There were four southbound lanes: two designated for the continuation of southbound traffic and two lanes for turning left, eastbound. There were three northbound lanes The north/southbound lanes were divided by a slightly raised narrow concrete median. There were no signalized traffic control devices at this middle of the block location. However, there were overhead and standard signalized traffic control devices controlling the movement through the approaching intersection. The bituminous covered road surfaces were dry, and straight and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit was 64 kmph (40 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during the late morning daylight hours. The roadway was free of any noticeable defects and the traffic flow was congested with stop and go traffic.
Vehicle one, a 1997 Ford Taurus 4-door sedan, was traveling southbound in lane three when it contacted with its right front the left rear of vehicle two, a 2006 Freightliner Columbia tractor with an empty fuel oil tank attached. After the impact with V2, V1 bounced slightly backwards a few inches where it came to final rest continuing to face southward. Because of the substantial higher weight difference with V1, V2 only moved minimally where its final rest was also continuing to face southward. The damages to V1 were disabling and it was towed from the scene. V2's damages were minimal and it was not towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.
The driver of vehicle one, a 20-year old male, refused to be interviewed under the direction of a relative police captain whom arrived on scene later after being called by the driver of V1. The captain, after introducing himself, asked that I respect his wishes and not interview the driver of V1. What is known about V1 is he and two occupants were traveling southbound prior to the crash and the driver is a mail handler, capacity unknown, and a relative of the on scene police captain. The driver was injured and treated on scene by medics, bleeding from his nose.
The driver of vehicle two, a 40-year old male, said he was traveling southbound in lane three stopped waiting for the green traffic light when he was rear-ended by V1. He'd traveled approximately 100 miles across state lines prior to the crash. He's been a licensed large truck driver for seven years out of his total 23-years experience as a licensed light vehicle operator. He had only a few miles to go to have the attached oil tanker filled. There were several vehicles in front of him also waiting for the green, he explained, and there's not much more to say. He was not injured,