This crash occurred in the southbound lane of a 3-lane undivided roadway just before a controlled 4-way intersection. There were two lanes that were continuing southbound, one being a left turn only lane and one lane going northbound. This was a straight, level, and bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). It was dry and the skies were clear. The crash occurred in the mid-afternoon day. Traffic flow was congested, with stop and go traffic activity.
V1, a 2001 Ford E-Series Van with one occupant was traveling south in lane one. V2, a 2002 Chevrolet Suburban station wagon with one occupant was traveling south in lane one in front of V1. V3, a 1993 Ford F150 pickup truck with one occupant was traveling south in lane one in front of V2. All the vehicles were stopped for the red light controlling the intersection. When the light turned green, V1 continued straight while V2 and V3 were still stopped. The front of V1 struck the rear of V2 pushing the front of V2 into the back of V3. All the vehicles came to final rest at approximately the point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the Ford E-Series, was driven by a 25-year-old male who reported non-incapasitating injuries but refused medical treatment. He stated that he was on his way from one job to the other and he was waiting at the red light intending on continuing straight through the intersection. He was not familiar with the area so he was trying to look at the street names. When the light turned green, he let off the brakes and started to go straight, while looking at the street signs. Before he knew it, he struck the rear of V2.
V2, the Chevrolet Suburban, was driven by a 58-year-old female who reported no injuries at the accident scene. The driver stated that she was stopped at the light intending on continuing straight through the intersection and when the light turned green, before she was able to proceed she was struck from behind by V1 and the force of the impact had her strike the rear of V3.
V3, the Ford F150 pickup truck, was driven by a 42-year-old male who reported no injuries on the accident scene. The driver stated that he was stopped at the red light intending on continuing straight through the intersection. When the light turned green, he did not yet proceed and was drinking from a water bottle. He was struck from behind by V2.
There was no Critical Pre-crash Event or reason coded to this driver since he was not part of the first harmful event. The only associated factors that were coded to the driver is drinking a water bottle and the rush hour congestion.