This crash occurred at an uncontrolled, four-legged intersection. The north/south trafficway is divided by a curbed median. The southbound lanes are straight and consist of three through lanes and a left turn lane. The intersecting roadway is two lane, two-way, parking lot exits on both sides of the north/south trafficway. The posted speed limit is 54 kmph (35 mph). The southbound traffic in lanes one and two was stopped at the intersection, backed up from the next intersection located south of the crash area. This other intersection was controlled by traffic signals. The road surfaces were dry and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash. It was early afternoon on a weekday and there was congested traffic on the north/south roadway.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Lexus LX 470 with one occupant, was stopped at the exit of the west-side business parking lot. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Honda Civic with one occupant, was traveling south in the third lane of traffic approaching the intersection. The traffic stopped in lanes one and two left a gap for V1 to pass through to turn left into the northbound lanes. V1 attempted the left turn while V2 was approaching the intersection. The front of V2 struck the left side of V1. V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest on the east side of the intersection, facing west. V2 rotated slightly counterclockwise after the impact, and came to rest facing southeast. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
A 61-year old female drove V1, the 2004 Lexus. She was heading home from a store. She stated she waited for almost five minutes before traffic was stopped and a gap opened for her to turn left. During the interview, she said she saw V2 coming from the north, approaching the intersection in lane three approximately 93 meters (305 feet) away from the point of impact. The driver of V1 said she applied her brakes rather then trying to get out of the way by accelerating. She estimated her own speed at 8 kph (5 mph) at the time of the impact. She later stated that she did not see V2 until she was crossing lane three. On the report by the investigating officer, it is stated that motorist in lane one and two waved her through the intersection. A witness at the scene stated that V1 accelerated through the intersection.
A 30-year old female drove V2, the 1997 Honda Civic. She stated she was in the third lane, traveling at a normal rate of speed when V1 came from her right front. She applied her brakes, but it was too late. Her line of sight was limited due to vehicles stopped in lanes one and two. She was heading back from work to her residence. She was not fatigued and in no hurry.