The crash occurred on a cement access road exiting a rail station parking area. This was a two lane one-way westbound road with a 90 degrees curve to the south. This was a dry, level, cement road with a heavy chain-lick fence bordering the left side of lane two. It was early evening while still daylight on a weekday, and the skies were clear. The posted speed was 40 kmph (25 mph).
The access road terminated at a public roadway. The public road was a four-lane east/west roadway with double yellow lines dividing the two eastbound lanes from the two westbound lanes. There was a right curve preceding the intersection in the eastbound direction. This was a level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 40 kmph (25 mph). Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, a 1994 Toyota Camry 2-door, was driven by a 26 year-old male traveling with a 17 year-old male. According to a witness, V1 was speeding on the access road in lane one. V1 was traveling south at an unknown speed, after a previous crash with a chain link fence 8 meters north (causing an oil leak to trail the path of V1), when for an unknown reason, the driver crossed over the left lane line into lane two. V2 was traveling south in lane two when V1 changed lanes into the path of V2. The front right bumper of V2 struck the left rear tire of V1. V1 continued south in lane two to the end of the access road and across the four east/west lanes of the public road without stopping at the stop sign, (evidenced by the oil, no pooling at the stop sign). V1 came to rest after crashing into a telephone pole on the south side of the roadway. The impact was sufficient to activate both air bags and create a large u-shape dent in the front of V1. The driver could not be located for an interview, the contact number was disconnected and the occupant at the listed residence did not know the driver. The driver was transported due to injuries and his vehicle was impounded.
V2, a 2004 Ford Mustang 2-door, was driven by a 33 year-old male. V2 was traveling in southbound in lane two when V1 crossed his path from the right. It was unknown whether the driver attempted any avoidance maneuvers before the impact. The only evidence that V2 was in a collision was the paint scraping from V1 on the front right bumper.
The witness stated that V1 was traveling through the rail station in lane one, the bus lane, at a high rate of speed, 80 kmph (50 mph) or greater. When V1 reached the left curve in the road, V1 missed the curve and went over the curb on the right side of lane one. V1 then made a sharp left turn, going across lane one and two, then off the road on the left side and into a fence. The witness thought she saw smoke after the crash. V1 then reversed across both lanes before continuing in the southbound direction. V2 was traveling south in lane two at a rate of 40 kmph (25 mph) when V1 sped from behind, crossed in front V2, grazing the front bumper. V1 ignored the stop sign at the intersection, continued across the public road and crashed into a telephone pole. When the driver of V1 exited his vehicle and attempted to flee the scene, the driver of V2 got out of his vehicle, wrestled the driver of V1 to the ground and sat on him until the police arrived.