Case Summary 2007-41-098
The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a high occupancy, high volume, and high-speed interstate highway. There were five lanes running northbound with both right and left side paved emergency shoulders. There were concrete wall barriers separating the southbound from the northbound traffic. The lane widths were a standard 3.7 meters and the emergency-paved shoulders were 3.5 meters. The road was straight and level. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekday morning. The posted speed was a 105 KPH (65 MPH). Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.
V1 was a 1997 Ford Dump truck that was traveling southbound in lane two. The driver was attempting to change lanes into lane one when his front right tire hit the left side of V2 a 1992 Mazda MX3 that was traveling in lane one. The driver of V2 tried to steer to the right and avoid the crash by swerving into the emergency paved shoulder. As the driver tried to avoid the crash she hit a V3, a 1984 BMW that was disabled on the shoulder. V2 and V3 were towed due to damages and the driver of V2 was transported due to injuries.
V1 was driven by a 40-year-old male who was on his way to do a pick up for his work. The driver was working for a dump truck company and on his way to a job. The driver stated in his interview that he was already in lane one traveling southbound when he felt a bump. He looked to the right and stated he saw the purple vehicle (V2) pulling back on to the highway from the emergency right side shoulder. He then stated that he then witnessed V2 hit the parked car. He then pulled over to make sure the driver was uninjured. This story was not believable due to V1's right front tire damage and V2's interview stating that V1 was making a lane change and didn't see V2. The driver tried to argue that he was already in lane one. There was also paint transfer on the right side guardrail from V2 showing she went off the roadway due to V1 cutting into her lane.
V2 was driven by a 28-year-old female who was on her way to work during rush-hour traffic. The driver stated that she was traveling in lane one when she saw out of the corner of her eye the dump truck start to come into to her lane. V1 then hit her left side and she tried to avoid the crash by steering to the right. The driver says she hit the right side guardrail and couldn't stop her vehicle before she saw a disabled vehicle right in front of her that's she hit head on. The driver stated that she wasn't able to go back into lane one because there were cars all around her and she didn't want to hit anyone else. She also stated that she didn't see the disabled vehicle on the right side shoulder because the V1 was a large dump truck and blocking her view. Driver of V2 sustained chest, back, and neck injures and was transported to a local hospital with injures. V2 was towed due to damages. She was cited for driving with a suspended license.
V3 was a 1984 BMW 3 Series that was disabled on the side of the roadway. The highway patrol had picked up the driver and was driving her to the gas station so she could call AAA to come tow her vehicle that had broken down on her way to work. The patrolman had positioned V3 facing the oncoming traffic, which he was later cited for. V3 was towed due to damages.