This two-vehicle crash occurred on an interstate bypass highway. This roadway is divided by a concrete barrier and the northbound traffic lanes consist of three through lanes. This roadway is concrete, curves right, is uphill in the northbound direction, and has a posted speed limit of 105 kmph (65 mph). This crash occurred during nighttime hours with light traffic flow.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Dodge Ram 1500 with two occupants, was traveling northbound in lane three. V1 departed the roadway on the left and impacted the concrete barrier with its left front tire. V1 rebounded from the concrete barrier upside down and airbourne. V1 traveled back across lane three and into lane two, where vehicle two (V2), a 2007 Toyota Tacoma with one occupant, was traveling. While on its roof, the front of V1 impacted with the front plane of V2 in a non-horizontal fashion. The impact caused both occupants of V1 to be ejected through the left window. V1 came to final rest on its top in lane two, facing south-southeast. After its impact with V1, V2 began to rotate counterclockwise. V2 rolled at least eight-quarter turns while continuing to rotate counterclockwise as it traveled across lanes two and three and the concrete shoulder. V2 impacted the concrete barrier with its undercarriage as it came to final rest. V2 came to final rest on its wheels facing northeast, partially resting on the concrete barrier with its back. The driver of V2 had to be extricated. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1 and 0 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a forty-six-year-old male, was unable to remember any details of the crash. He is in good health, drives this route weekly, and is very comfortable with his vehicle. Medical reports obtained for this driver indicate that he had a blood alcohol content of 0.306 after the crash and he had just been given a Dilaudid prior to the interview, so it is unclear how reliable any information that was given may be.
The driver of V2, a twenty-six-year-old male, could not be reached for an interview so little is known about this driver. A supplemental police report that was obtained stated that he was unable to remember any details of the crash on the night that it occurred.