The crash occurred in the middle of a 4-way intersection. The roadway was straight and level. In each connecting roadway there were three lanes, with both lane one being a right turn only lane, lane two a straight lane, and lane three a left turn only lane. Each intersecting roadway was controlled by a traffic light. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekend morning. The posted speed was 56 KPH (35 MPH).
V1 was a 2001 Ford Expedition that was traveling westbound in lane two. The driver ran a red light and hit the right side passenger's door of V2, a 2006 Honda Odyssey Minivan who was traveling northbound in lane two. The driver of V2 had a green light and was passing through the intersection when she was hit on the right side causing her passenger right front window to break and both cars make final rest off the roadway on the northwest corner. V1 continued off the roadway and hit a parking sign and some shrubbery. V1 also continued off the roadway and hit a parking sign a parked Vehicle, V3 a 2002 Mercedes Benz. Both drivers were transported to the hospital with injuries. Both vehicles were towed due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.
V1 was driven by a 50-year-old male who was on his way home. He stated in the interview he doesn't know how he ran a red light. He said it all happened so quickly that he doesn't really remember the specifics. The driver was cited for the crash for failure to stop for a traffic control device. He stated that he saw the minivan, as he was about to hit the right side door. His only avoidance action was to steer to the right. His vehicle continued off the roadway making final rest in the shrubs off the northwest corner.
V2 was driven by a 51-year-old woman who was on her way to the hospital. Her son had just been in the car with her and decided to jump out and head into the hospital while she parked the car. The driver approached the intersection and had a green light. She was in the through lane and proceeded to go through the intersection when she was t boned by V1. The impact shattered the front right window and caused the side curtain airbags to deploy. V1 continued to make final rest off the roadway when she hit some shrubs, a parking sign, and parked vehicle. The driver was transported with injuries.