The crash occurred in the intersection of two undivided four-lane roadways. Each roadway had two lanes in each direction. One roadway ran north/south and the other ran east/west. The roads were straight, level and dry asphalt. Traffic in all four directions was controlled by overhanging stop and go signals with pedestrian controls. The posted speed limit for the north/southbound road was 72 kmph (45 mph), while for east/westbound traffic it was 56 kmph (35 mph). Traffic was heavy during rush hour on a weekday afternoon. The weather was clear.
V1, a 2003 Ford Crown Victoria four door police cruiser with one occupant, was southbound in lane one. V2, a 1996 Ford Taurus four door with one occupant, was eastbound in lane one. V1 had a red light while V2 had a green light. V1 was on the way to a nearby call for help. V2 intended to go straight through the intersection but ran into V1, which ran the red light. The front left of V2 struck the right side of V1. V1 came to rest facing south about 10m south of the point of impact straddling lanes 1 and 2. V2 rotated in a clockwise manner and came to rest facing southeast about 2m from the point of impact. V2 had to be towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the Crown Victoria, was driven by a 44-year old male who was not injured. Following police procedures the driver of V1 refused the interview and would not talk to the researcher. The police report confirmed that V1 ran a red light and that it had on its emergency lights. It is undetermined if it had its siren on before it entered the intersection and was struck by V2.
V2, the Ford Taurus, was driven by a 32-year old female who was coded for possible injuries and was transported to a local hospital. The driver of V2 reported that she was traveling about 40 kmph (25 mph) on the way home from work and that she had a green light and was going straight. The driver added that there were several vehicles stopped in lane two (possibly waiting to turn left) to her left as she approached the intersection so she could not see V1 approaching and she did not know if V1 had on its emergency lights or siren. She reported that as she entered the intersection she saw V1 and hit her brakes but could not avoid hitting it.