The crash occurred in the middle of a four-way intersection of two undivided multi-lane roadways. In the eastbound direction, there were three lanes running eastbound and two lanes running westbound. In the northbound direction, there were three lanes running northbound: lane one was a right turn-only lane, lane two was straight only, and lane three was a left turn-only lane. There was one southbound lane. Conditions were clear and dry on a weekday afternoon. The roadway was straight and level. The posted speed was 56 kmph (35 mph).
V1 was a 1988 Cadillac Brougham 4-door sedan that was traveling eastbound in lane one. The driver was witnessed on-scene running a red light. It was noted on the scene that the driver tried to stop prior to entering the intersection, due to 8 meters of skid marks left on the roadway. V1 entered the intersection on a red light and made contact with V2, a 1993 Mitsubishi Mirage that was making a left turn heading westbound. V1 hit the left side driver's door and side panel and pushed V2 to rotate clockwise and come to final rest on the southeast corner. The driver of V1 then fled the scene. The police later located V1 but not the driver. The driver of V2 was transported due to injuries and his vehicle was towed due to damages. On the front driver's seat of V2 was an open bottle of liquor. The driver gave a partial interview on-scene but then stopped being cooperative. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.
V1 was the hit and run vehicle that was driven by a male. No other information was obtained about the driver. It was noted by the driver of V2 that V1 ran the red light. His story was credible due to the physical evidence found on-scene.
The driver of V2, a 19-year old male, was in the northbound left turn-only lane, turning westbound with a green arrow. As he proceeded into the intersection, he heard a screech and looked to his left to see the white Cadillac coming at him and running the red light. There was nothing he could do to avoid the crash. The impact caused V2 to spin clockwise and come to final rest on the southeast corner. The driver of V2 was transported to a local hospital with injures and his vehicle towed due to damages. He was not cited for the crash.