The two-vehicle crash occurred on a four-lane, one-way, southbound roadway at the intersection with a four-lane, one-way, westbound roadway. Both roadways were straight, dry and of concrete construction with a negative grade. Stop signs in both directions control traffic at the intersection. The posted speed limit is 72 kmph (45 mph). Traffic was heavy at the time of the crash. This crash occurred during daylight hours with clear skies.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Nissan Sentra with two occupants, was southbound in the second travel lane. Vehicle two (V2), a Freightliner with trailer with one occupant, was westbound in the second travel lane. After both vehicles stopped for the respective stop signs, both vehicles entered the intersection and the front of V1 struck the right side of V2. V1 rotated clockwise and the left side of V1 struck the right side of V2. V1 came to rest in the intersection facing southwest. The driver stopped V2 in the second lane west of the intersection. V1 was towed due to damage. No treatment was administered at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.
The driver of V1, an eight-three year old female, was heading to a store from a friend's residence. This driver had been driving for about five minutes, for the first time on this roadway and is familiar with the vehicle. The driver stated, "we must not have seen each other." She did not detect V2 prior to impact and did not attempt any evasive maneuvers. The driver stated she had been stopped for 1-2 seconds prior to entering the intersection. This driver stated that she was uncomfortable with the traffic density at the time of the crash.
The driver of V2, a fifty-four year old male, was heading from his payload pick-up to the drop-off. This driver had been driving for about four and one-half hours, drives the route rarely and is familiar with the vehicle. The driver stated he did not notice V1 prior to impact and did not attempt any evasive maneuvers. The driver stated he had been stopped for 1-2 seconds prior to entering the intersection.