This one-vehicle crash occurred during the early afternoon hours of a weekday. The collision took place on an urban north/south roadway in a four-way intersection. On the northbound approach to the intersection, there were three northbound lanes and one southbound lane. Two of the northbound lanes were designated for straight travel while the other was for left turns. Within the intersection were two separate steel pillars that supported a railway system above the trafficway. Approximately approximately 7.4 meters separated them. The entire roadway had a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). The surface type for the roadway was that of bituminous asphalt. The roadway was flat, wet, and level, without any indications of physical damage. Weather conditions were mostly cloudy with light rain.
V1, a 2007 GMC Savana G3500 box truck, was traveling northbound in lane three of the roadway (the turning lane). V1 had a steady green light and proceeded to make its left turn. When doing so, the driver of V1 was distracted by another vehicle traveling in the opposite direction. V1 then struck one of the railway support pillars with its front left corner. The driver and his passenger were not injured in the collision. The vehicle suffered moderate damage and was towed from the scene. The vehicle contained medical equipment in its cargo area (weight unknown). According to the driver, there was no cargo shift involved. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1.
The driver of V1, a 57 year-old male in fair health, reported he was in the process of making a delivery of medical supplies to a nearby hospital when the crash occurred. The driver reported that while making the left hand turn onto the westbound roadway, he noticed another motorist attempting to make a turn in front of him. While focusing his attention on the other vehicle, the driver failed to maneuver around a support pillar, and clipped it with the front left of his vehicle. The driver admitted to not paying attention to his turn as the other vehicle was distracting him. The driver has owned the vehicle for approximately three months but related having driven something else similar in size. The driver was licensed out-of-state but claimed he has been making his deliveries in this area quite often. The driver suffers from heart complications (for which he takes medication) but stated this did not have anything to do with the crash. The driver had prescribed eyeglasses and was wearing them at the time of the crash. In addition, the driver admitted to have been listening to the radio, but was adamant his driving was not affected by it. Weather conditions were rainy with a wet roadway. The driver stated that the weather was not a factor in the crash.