The crash occurred at a "T" intersection. The roadway was a three lane undivided roadway with a left hand only turn lane going southbound. The roadway was a three lane divided (without a positive barrier) roadway going northbound. The northbound roadway curved to the right with a radius of curvature of 417 meters and a superelevation of 1.5%. This was a level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 89 KPH (55 mph). The weather was clear, the roadway dry and it was dark but lighted at the time of this weekday afternoon crash. Traffic flow was normal for that time of day.
V1, a 1995 Volkswagen Golf III, was traveling southbound in lane two (left only turn lane) and approached the intersection. V2, a 1993 Freightliner FLD 120 tractor, was traveling northbound negotiating the curve to the right and approached the intersection. V1 entered the intersection, stopped and then proceeded to turn left. The left side of V2 struck the front of V1. V1 was pushed backwards, struck a box beam guardrail with its right rear and came to rest facing in a southeasterly direction. V2 rotated slightly counterclockwise and went off the right side of the roadway. V2 continued off the roadway, struck a delineator post and came to rest facing in a northwesterly direction. V1 was towed due to damage. V2 was towed out and driven from the scene. Police did not consider either alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no tests. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the Volkswagen Golf, was driven by a belted 31-year-old male who reported no injuries. He advised that he was a tourist on vacation and had been in the area skiing 2-3 hours during the afternoon. He had not driven this roadway before. He stated that he was returning home and thinking about calling his wife to tell her when he would be home. He stated that he was looking at the tollbooth to the left and thinking about if he needed money. He said that he saw the truck, thought that it was not going that fast and he had time to cross. He considered himself in good health, wore glasses for astigmatism and took no medications.
V2, the Freightliner tractor, was driven by a belted 30-year-old male who reported no injuries. He advised that he was on his way home and drove the road daily. He stated he was accelerating as he approached the intersection, traveling approximately 31-40 mph. He stated that the other vehicle was "just sitting there waiting to make the left turn" and "waited until I was there and then made the turn". He attempted to brake and steer right but was unable to avoid the collision. He considered himself in good health and took no medications.