This crash occurred at midweek on a roadway with two lanes of travel. This roadway was inside the city limits and was undivided with one lane in each direction. The roadway was straight, level asphalt. The posted speed limit was 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred in the early evening hours and it was dark but lighted at the time of the crash. The weather was cold and cloudy and the roadway was wet.
Vehicle 1, a 1988 Buick Regal 2-door coupe, was traveling west on the roadway when it traveled off the left side of the roadway across a lawn. V1 then struck the front of a house and its porch. V1 came to final rest against the house. The driver and 5 passengers were all transported to the local trauma unit by EMS. The vehicle was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
An 18-year-old female drove V1. At the hospital where an interview was started, the driver was given pain medication and was only able to give a brief statement as to how the crash occurred. After re-contacting the driver at a later date, her mother stated that her daughter would not be giving an interview about the crash. A few days later, the occupant that was seated in the front right seat was called and the driver of V1 answered the telephone, stating that the right front occupant was a relative and that they live together. The driver then gave some information about the crash. She reported that she and her passengers were on their way to the high school for a school event. She stated that they were running late and had just picked up one of the passengers. At a traffic signal that was red, she came to a stop and her seatbelt tightened up on her. She stated that she then unbuckled the belt and the light turned green so as she accelerated, she was adjusting the belt. She stated that as she traveled down the roadway she hit some ice or a slick spot on the roadway, which caused her to lose control of her vehicle. She stated that as the vehicle traveled off the left side of the roadway she thought her foot was on the brake pedal but the vehicle did not stop. She stated that her vehicle then contacted the front of the house and its front porch very hard. This was where her vehicle came to final rest. She then stated she was not going to answer any questions about sleep or her health and terminated the interview.
Other passengers in the vehicle were contacted and some of them did provide some information. The passengers stated that the driver did remove her seatbelt to adjust it and as she traveled along the roadway they thought she had contacted ice to make the vehicle go out of control.