This two-vehicle, rear-end crash occurred during daylight hours on a weekend. The two-way bituminous roadway consisted of three lanes, including one common center left turning lane. The roadway was straight, level, and dry. There were no traffic control devices associated with this stretch of roadway. The posted speed limit was 64kmph (40mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash and traffic flow was normal.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Chevrolet Impala, was heading south on the roadway intending to continue straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Hyundai Santa Fe, was also heading south on the roadway in front of V1, intending to make a right into a driveway. The front of V1 contacted the back of V2. Both vehicles came to final rest shortly after impact in the southbound lane. Vehicle one was able to be driven from the scene, while V2 had to be towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a 47 year-old male, did not suffer any injuries as a result of the crash and did not require any medical treatment. There were no other passengers in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A complete interview was conducted on scene with the driver of this vehicle. He claimed that he was driving behind V2 who had put her right turn signal on at the last second. He tried to avoid the crash by steering left, but it was not enough. The driver stated that he was taking medication for anxiety as well as depression, but didn't feel it hindered his driving capabilities. He relayed that he had been feeling tired earlier in the day, but not when he was making this trip. He was familiar with the roadways and was comfortable with his vehicle. The driver related that he had been upset about being on disability, but wasn't thinking about it when the crash occurred. It should be noted that the driver admitted that he had been involved in 5 crashes in the last two years.
The driver of V2, a 38 year-old female, suffered unknown injuries to her neck and shoulder and was taken to the hospital for treatment. There were two other passengers in the vehicle who were also taken to a medical facility. After numerous attempts, an interview could not be obtained from this driver. For this reason it is unknown if any fatigue or health related factors contributed to this crash.
A statement from a witness of this crash was obtained. He claimed that he noticed that V1 was following way too close to V2. He said to his passenger that he felt that V1 was going to hit V2. He claimed that V2 did have their right turn signal on when the crash occurred.