This multi-event two-vehicle rollover crash occurred at an urban four-legged intersection. The main roadway ran east/west with no traffic control devices. The posted speed limit was 72 kmph (45 mph). There were stop signs present for the intersecting north/south roads. Eastbound approach contained three lanes; two straight lanes and a dedicated left turn lane that began 60 meters (197 feet) prior to the intersection. This road was straight with a negative 2 percent downhill profile. Westbound approach contained three lanes; two straight lanes and a dedicated left turn lane that began 60 meters (197 feet) prior to the intersection. This road curved right slightly with a 3 percent super-elevation and was level. This roadway was divided by a raised grass median with curbs and sidewalks present. Setting was late afternoon hours on a weekday. Conditions were daylight with cloudy skies and dry bituminous asphalt.
Vehicle 1 was a 2005 Ford Focus four-door with one occupant traveling eastbound in lane one. Vehicle 2 was a 1996 Ford Windstar minivan with five occupants traveling westbound in lane three, the left turn lane. Due to rush hour congestion, there was heavy traffic stopped in eastbound lane two, the lane to the left of V1. V1's lane ended at a subdivision up ahead, so there was no traffic traveling in that lane. As V1 approached the intersection, V2 turned left from the opposing direction into the path of V1. V1 struck the right side of V2 with its front plane (event 1). V1 attempted to avoid the collision by locking its brakes, leaving 13.9 meters (46 feet) of skid marks and steering right. V1 became interlocked with the right rear of V2, pushing it laterally, and causing a slight clockwise rotation. This force caused V2 to overturn one quarter turn (event 2) and come to final rest on its driver's side facing northwest approximately 10 meters (33 feet) southeast of impact area. V1 traveled approximately 3.5 meters (11.5 feet) after impact and came to final rest facing southeast in its original travel lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1 was a 24 year-old male who reported minor injuries. He was on his way home from working a 48-hour week. He said he was on the road commuting for 30 minutes and was almost home. This two-lane road reportedly gets very congested during the evening rush hour. Nobody drives in the right lane because it ends at a subdivision, in which he happens to live. He refused to estimate his travel speed when asked, but stated that lane two traffic was backed up half a mile and his lane was wide open. He assumed that somebody stopped in lane two waved V2 out into traffic. He was unable to see V2 until right before impact due to cars obstructing his view to the left. He locked up his brakes and steered right, but couldn't avoid colliding into V2. His vehicle was towed with disabling front-end damage.
The driver of V2 was 52 year-old male who was not injured in the crash. He had just finished work for the day as a sheet rock finisher. He returned home briefly, picked up his family and was going across the main roadway to visit some other family members that lived nearby. When he pulled out onto the main road, he got in the left turn lane and was stopped for 5-10 seconds waiting for somebody in the opposing lane to let him cross. He reported traffic in the opposing left lane as being heavy and stopped. A nice driver decided to wave him across. He said he looked in the right lane before proceeding, but couldn't see anyone coming. He thinks because V1 was speeding, he couldn't slow down enough to avoid hitting him. After he was struck on the right side, his vehicle rolled over onto its left side where it stopped. His vehicle was towed from the scene.