The crash occurred in lanes one and two of the westbound roadway at the intersection of a seven-lane north/southbound highway. The three westbound lanes included two left turn lanes and one straight with two eastbound lanes divided by double yellow lines. The four northbound lanes included one left turn lane with three southbound lanes divided by a large grass median and a guardrail. Lane one, for all directions, has access to an adjoining right turn lane. Lane one and the right turn lane become separated by cement and grass triangular median. The traffic control lights are located on each of the medians. This was a dry, bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 89 kmph (55 mph) for the north and southbound highway. The northbound and westbound lanes both had 2% downhill slopes. The sky was clear during this mid-morning weekday on this well traveled road with moderate commuter traffic.
V1, a 1992 Kenworth T-800 dump truck was driven by a 41 year-old male. The driver stated that he had just finished a drop off and was traveling to the next pick-up when the crash occurred. He was traveling north in lane three approaching the intersection at a rate of 72 kmph (45 mph), when the vehicle ahead of him stopped at the green light for no reason. To avoid colliding with the vehicle, the driver of V1 steered right while braking hard, then steered left while continuing to brake. Unfortunately, the rear of V1 began to fishtail out counter-clockwise causing V1 to become out-of-control. V1 continued traveling out-of-control, over to the right shoulder and across the east and westbound lanes. V2 was stopped at the intersection for the red light in the westbound lane one. V1 continued to fishtail across the east side of the intersection across the east and westbound lanes. The driver of V1 was unable to regain control of his vehicle in time to prevent striking V3 in the left front side with an unknown portion of V1 and the left front portion of V2 with the right rear tire and corner of V1. V1 upon hitting the curb rolled onto it's right side coming to rest, facing northwest, onto a triangular median. The median where V1 came to rest was located on the northeast corner of the intersection. The driver of V1 was uninjured. At the time of the collision, V1 had rotated 45 degrees and was facing west at the time of the collision, explaining why the driver never saw V2 and V3 prior to the crash. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2, a 2000 Ford Windstar mini van was driven by a 61 year-old male. The driver's wife stated that her husband had just dropped off their grandchildren at day care and only driven a short distance on his way to home when the crash occurred. The driver of V2 was unable to recall any of the events leading to and after the impact. The force of the crash forced V2 to turn clock-wise over the median, and into the right turn lane. V2 came to rest 2 meters north of the intersection, facing northeast in the right turn lane. A clear impression of V1's right rear tire remains above the left front wheel well of V2's fender. The driver of V2 was transported for non-incapacitating injuries. The driver's transportation to the hospital was not reported on the police report.
V3, a 2006 BMW 325CI 2-door convertible was driven by a 62 year-old woman. She stated that she was stopped at the intersection, facing west in lane two, a left turn lane. She had been stopped there for three minutes when she saw V1 skidding sideway across the intersection. Although V1 was traveling north, it was facing west. She was unable to move her vehicle as V1 approached. She stated that everything happened so fast that she was unable to recall what portion of V1 struck the left front of her vehicle. After hitting her vehicle, V1 crashed into V2. She stated that V2 had been stopped next to her vehicle in lane one for about a minute prior to the crash. The driver was uninjured and the damages to V3 were slight
Witness #1 stated that she was traveling north in lane two, as she approached the intersection, the light had turned yellow. She felt it was unsafe to continue through the intersection and began to stop. As her vehicle came to a stop, she noticed a large truck in her rear view mirror approaching at a high rate of speed, greater than 89 kmph (55mph), and thought the truck was going to crash into her vehicle. She than saw the truck swerve into the right lane and began to fishtail. The truck continued to fishtail out-of-control as it passed through the intersection then flip over on to its right side hitting the traffic light. The witness stated that she waited for the green light before proceeding across the intersection, and then pulled off the road onto the right shoulder to provide assistance. The witness was visibly shaken at the scene. The witness did not see V2 or V3 prior to the crash.
Witness #2 stated that she was traveling north in lane three, as she approached the intersection, the light had turned yellow and she also began to stop adjacent to a truck in lane two and an SUV in lane one. The light was already red when she saw the V1 approaching behind her, in lane three, at a high rate of speed (as if the driver's intention was to beat the red light). To avoid colliding with the vehicles already stopped and blocking all three lanes, V1 veered right over lane one and onto the right shoulder. Once on the shoulder, the witness noticed that V1 began to fishtail counter clock-wise out-of-control, turning180 degrees facing west, as it traveled north, across the intersection. The witness then heard a crash as V1 flipped onto its right side. V1 appeared to have greater trouble stopping than would be expected, as if V1 had diminished braking ability. The witness did not see V2 or V3 prior to crash.