This two-vehicle crash occurred on a 5-lane asphalt road with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). This roadway runs north to south with a center painted left hand turn lane & two thru lanes on either side. There are business driveways that intersect the roadway on both sides of the road. This roadway is straight with an uphill grade for traffic going north. This crash occurred during the early afternoon daylight hours with light traffic and no adverse weather or sight conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Ford Escort sedan, was exiting a business on the west side with intention of crossing all travel lanes to enter another business on the east side. As V1 entered the roadway, the driver failed to see a large truck exiting another driveway on the east side. V1 began to cross the roadway and was impacted on the right front corner area. V1 rotated counterclockwise some 20 degrees then steered right into the business driveway that it was going to. V1 was towed for disabling damage to the right front wheel and radiator. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Ford 3/4 ton pickup, had exited the other driveway some 30 meters (98 feet) south of this impact and was headed north when it impacted V1 with its left front bumper area. V2 steered right in an attempt to avoid V1 but was unable to do so. V2 steered right off the roadway and came to rest in the parking area of the business that V1 was going to. V2 was not disabled and was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1 a eighteen (18) year-old male who is familiar with this roadway and drives this roadway daily. He stated that he was on his way to work and was early. He had stopped for gas and was crossing this roadway to buy some wiper blades for his vehicle. He stated that he is in good health and had slept 9 hours the night before and was well rested. He is restricted to driving with glasses and that he did have them on at the time of this crash. He stated that as he entered this roadway he never saw the large truck entering this roadway on the east side and did not see it until he was about to be hit. He did not attempt any avoidance maneuver and was transported to a local hospital for a closed head injury.
The driver of V2 a forty two (42) year-old male and accompanied by his twelve (12) year-old son. This driver stated that he was exiting another driveway and was headed north when he saw V1 enter the roadway from the west side. He stated that V1 appeared as if it was going to go north in the #2 lane, but instead it continued across the northbound lane and across his lane. He stated that he tried to steer right to avoid the crash but was unable to. He claims to be in good health was well rested and familiar with this roadway. He stated that the traffic was light and that he had good visibility in all directions. Neither occupant was injured and refused medical on scene.