This two-vehicle crash occurred in the evening of a weeknight at a four-way intersection. The intersection consisted of four multi-lane divided roadways controlled by properly functioning traffic signals with protected left-turn arrows for each direction. The bituminous roadway is straight, level, and wet with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The conditions were dark (no street lighting) with a severe thunderstorm hammering the area at the time of the crash.
V1, a 1992 Geo Prizm with one occupant, was westbound in lane three (designated left-turn lane) intending to turn left. V2, a 2000 Honda Odyssey with five occupants, was eastbound in lane one intending to go straight. The traffic signal was green for both vehicles and they both entered the intersection at the same time. V1 executed a left turn and crashed into the front of V2. Both vehicles were towed from the scene but only V1 was recorded as being towed due to disabling damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1 is a 68-year-old retired female that was returning home from the grocery store when she was involved in this crash. She stopped at this intersection (westbound) and waited for her traffic signal to turn green. After her signal changed to green she began to turn left. She allegedly waited a few seconds after her signal turned green before she entered the intersection, but once she began to turn left she was struck head-on by V2. This driver never saw the minivan and blames the crash on the poor weather conditions. She broke both of her legs in the crash and was still hospitalized when I interviewed her caretaker and sister at their home.
The driver of V2 is a 40-year-old male that was taking his daughter to an urgent care center when he was involved in this crash. While driving east, he called his neighbor to get directions to the center. He was talking on his mobile phone when he entered the intersection and struck V1. He said his traffic signal was green as he approached the intersection and that he never slowed down before colliding with V1 because he never saw it. Nobody from his vehicle was injured in the crash.