This two-vehicle crash occurred in the late morning hours on a weekday, in the middle of a four-way intersection. The intersection consisted of a two-lane east/west roadway, which was intersected by a north/south roadway with three lanes on its north end and two lanes on the south end. All four directions of the intersection were controlled by traffic lights. The bituminous roadway was dry, straight, and level. The posted speed limit was 64 kmph (40 mph) for the east/west road and 56 kmph (35 mph) for the north/south roadway. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions and traffic flow was normal at the time of the crash.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Ford Focus, was heading east on the roadway intending to continue through the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Lincoln Town Car, was heading north on the roadway also intending to continue through the intersection. As V1 entered the intersection, the front left of V2 contacted the right front of V1. After the impact, V1 continued forward when it started to spin counter clockwise and struck a utility pole on the right side of the roadway where it came to final rest in the eastbound lane. Vehicle two continued forward and came to a controlled stop on the right side of the northbound lane. Vehicle one had to be towed from the scene due to damage, however vehicle two was able to be driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, an 81 year-old female did not suffer any injuries as a result of the crash and did not require any medical treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A complete interview was obtained from this driver. She claimed she was heading toward the intersection and that the light was green. Next thing she knew was that she noticed the light was red just as she entered the intersection. Upon entering the intersection she heard a bang, then lost control and hit the utility pole. The driver claimed that she was not fatigued and was familiar with the roadways. She claimed that her vehicle was in good working condition. She relayed that she was in fair health and that she suffered from diabetes. She takes the required insulin to keep her blood sugar in check, but this condition hasn't affected her driving. She also related that she takes a senior citizens defensive driving course every three years to reduce the cost of her car insurance.
The driver of V2, an 84 year-old female, did not suffer any injuries as a result of the crash and did not require any medical attention. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A complete interview was obtained from this driver. She simply claimed that the other driver had run the red light and struck her vehicle. She related that she was going between 1-10mph when she entered the intersection. She said that she was not fatigued and travels on this roadway a few times a month. She relayed that her vehicle is regularly inspected and is in good working condition. Her health is good, however she takes medication to help control her blood pressure.