The crash occurred in a four-way intersection. The east/west roadway was undivided with two lanes in each direction and a posted speed of 64 kmph (40 mph). The north/south roadway was an undivided two-lane roadway with a posted speed of 40 kmph (25 mph). Both roadways were dry, straight, level, and bituminous. The intersection had a traffic control device on colors with a pedestrian signal. It was late afternoon on a weekday and the sky was clear.
V1, a 1999 Oldsmobile Alero four-door sedan with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane two. V1 was approaching the intersection intending to turn left. V2, a 1999 Chevrolet Suburban utility vehicle with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane one. V2 was approaching the intersection intending to go straight. V3, a 2005 GMC Sierra pick-up with two occupants, was stopped at a red light in the northbound lane at the intersection waiting to turn left. The driver of V1 stated that as he approached the intersection there was a car across from him also turning left that blocked his view of V2. V1 decelerated but did not stop at the intersection and initiated his turn. The driver of V2 stated that he saw V1 slowing down and thought that he would yield the right-of-way. The front of V2 contacted the right rear side of V1. This impact sent V1 into a clockwise rotation 45 degrees. V1's left side then struck the front of V3 where it came to final rest. V2 departed the roadway on the right side and its front struck a mailbox and then a sign before coming to final rest off the right side of the road. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 was a 20-year old male. He reported injuries and was transported to a local trauma facility. He stated that he had just left his girlfriend's house and was on his way home. He stated that he had slowed down to 34-48 kmph (21-30 mph) when he was struck by V2. He did not attempt any avoidance actions.
The driver of V2 was a 79-year old male. He reported no injuries and refused treatment. He stated that he had had just left his home and was on his way to a store. He stated that he had been traveling between 50-64 kmph (31-40 mph) prior to contacting V1. He stated that he did not attempt any avoidance actions because he thought V1 would yield the right-of-way.
The driver of V3 was a 64-year old male. He reported no injuries and refused treatment. He stated that he and the passenger had just left his daughter's house and was on their way to Lowe's. He was stopped in his travel lane at a red light when he was struck by V2.
V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. Therefore, no Critical Pre-crash Event or Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to this driver was an internal distraction because he was reaching in the console at the time of the crash.