This two-vehicle crash occurred in the early morning hours on a weekday, in the middle of a residential T-intersection. The intersection consisted of a two-lane, two-way roadway, which was intersected by another two-lane, two-way roadway. The eastbound roadway ended at the intersection and was controlled by a stop sign. North/south traffic had no traffic control device. Both bituminous roadways were straight and there were uphill grades for both south and eastbound traffic. The posted speed limit for the north/south roadway was 72 kmph (45 mph) while the speed limit for the east/west roadway was 40 kmph (25 mph). There was a steady rain at the time of the crash and the roads were wet. Traffic flow was heavy due to rush hour traffic.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Jeep Cherokee utility vehicle, was heading east on the roadway approaching the stop sign at the intersection where it was intending to make a left. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Ford Escort 4-door, was heading south on the roadway, intending to continue straight through the intersection. As V1 entered the intersection the front of V2 contacted the left front of V1. After the impact, V1 rotated clockwise approximately 90 degrees before coming to final rest off of the southbound roadway. Vehicle two rotated counter clockwise approximately 45 degrees where it came to final rest in the middle of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, an 18 year-old male, did not suffer any injuries and did not require any medical attention. There were no other occupants in the vehicle at the time of the crash. The mother of the driver, a lawyer, would not let her son participate in an interview. It is therefore uncertain if any fatigue or health related issues contributed to this crash.
The driver of V2, a 39 year-old male, suffered injuries to his chest and left knee, and was taken to the hospital for treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A complete interview was obtained from this driver. He relayed that he was traveling at approximately 30 miles an hour when the other vehicle pulled out in front of him. He said he didn't have time to react and couldn't avoid the crash. He claimed he had been driving for about 15 minutes and did not feel fatigued. He related that he was very familiar with the roadway and felt very comfortable with his vehicle. He also felt that the vehicle was in good working condition. He was in good health at the time of the crash.