This three-vehicle crash occurred in the morning of a weekday in lane 2 of a 4-lane divided highway. The north/south roadway consisted of two lanes in each direction divided by a grassy median. The bituminous roadway was dry, straight, and level with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (55 mph). The traffic flow of the area was heavy due to the morning commuters and its proximity to a major college campus entrance. The weather conditions were clear and daylight.
V1, a 2003 Saturn L200 with two occupants was southbound in lane two. V2, a 1999 Mitsubishi Montero Sport LS with one occupant, was decelerating southbound in lane two ahead of V1. V3, a 2000 Mitsubishi Mirage DE with two occupants, was stopped in lane two ahead of V2. V1 failed to slow down behind V2 and struck the back of V2. The force of the impact pushed V2 into the back of V3. All three vehicles came to final rest forward of their respective points of impact. All three vehicles were towed from the scene but only V1 received disabling damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a 24-year-old male, was uninjured in the crash. His passenger, a 20-year-old female suffered minor injuries but did not require transport. The driver stated he was southbound in lane two and wanted to change lanes so he looked in his right side mirror for too long and did not realize the traffic ahead of him was slowing. He said he was traveling about 45 mph (72 kmph) and was still looking in the mirror at time he struck the back of V2. This driver said he was not running late.
The driver of V2, an 18-year-old female college student, was driving to class this morning when she was involved in this crash. She said she was slowing down in her lane when the car behind her crashed into the back of her fathers' Mitsubishi Montero, which caused her to crash into the car in front of her.
The driver of V3, a 23-year-old female college student, was traveling with her 20-year-old friend to class when she was involved in this crash. She states that she was slowing down because of the traffic ahead of her and eventually came to a complete stop in her lane. Once she stopped, she heard a crash and looked in her rearview mirror to discover the crash was behind her and that V2 was being pushed toward her. That collision happened so fast there was nothing she could do to avoid another crash and her vehicle was struck in the back by V2. The right front passenger in her vehicle was transported from the scene for treatment of minor injuries but this driver did not go to an emergency room until later that day.