This two-vehicle crash occurred at a four-legged urban intersection. The main roadway runs north/south with no traffic control devices. The intersecting east/west roadways are controlled by stop signs. Eastbound approach is straight with an uphill grade. Southbound approach curves left with a slight downhill grade. Both roadways are bituminous asphalt with raised barrier curbs present. The posted speed limit is 56 kph (35 mph) for all directions. Setting was early afternoon hours on a weekday. Conditions were daylight and dry with mostly sunny skies. Traffic flow was light at time of crash.
V1 is a 1999 Ford Taurus, wagon with one occupant traveling eastbound in lane one. V2 is a 1998 Nissan Sentra, four-door with one occupant traveling southbound in lane one. V1 stopped briefly at its stop sign, and then proceeded to make a left turn and travel north. V2 applied it brakes and steered to the left to avoid a collision with V1. V2 left 15.4 meters (50 feet) of skids marks prior to impact. The front-plane of V2 contacted the left, front-plane of V1 in the intersection. After impact, V1 traveled 10.0 meters (33 feet) coming to final rest partially in northbound lanes, facing east. V2 traveled 8.4 meters (28 feet) coming to final rest partially in northbound lanes facing east. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1 is a 59 year-old male who suffered minor injuries and refused treatment on-scene. He works 40 hours per week at a local university and 10 hours nightly at an unspecified part-time job. He tells me he had just left his home where he had lunch down the road and was returning back to work. He approached the stop sign, stopped, looked left, then right, then left again, saw nobody coming, so he proceeded to turn left. As he entered southbound lanes, he was struck on the left, front plane by V2. Despite looking twice, he never saw V2 prior to impact. He claims that sun-glare and the light color of V2 contributed to his view being obscured. He was not wearing sunglasses prior to impact, but did have corrective lenses on to correct his far-sighted vision. His vehicle was towed from the scene with non-disabling damage.
The driver of V2 is a 29 year-old male who was transported from the scene with a broken wrist. He was not available for an interview on-scene, but his mother showed up and wanted to tell me what she knew. She says the driver was on his way home to eat lunch from his job up the road. She says he works Monday through Friday, totaling 35 hours per week. She says he drives like an "old lady" most of time and was probably not speeding. She says he's otherwise healthy, takes no medications, and doesn't wear glasses. He told her he was going around the left curve when a car pulled out into his path from the right. He hit the brakes, locking them up and tried to steer left around V1. That's all that's known at this time. This driver could not be located for a follow up interview. His vehicle suffered disabling front-end damage.