This two-vehicle crash occurred on a weekday during late morning daylight hours at an intersection with traffic signals. The speed limit for the roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). The road is a 4-lane divided (no positive barrier) asphalt roadway for both vehicles. It runs from east to west. The intersecting roadway is a two-lane (one-way traffic) service road of an overpass, running from south to north. The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Mercury Grand Marquis with two occupants, was traveling east in lane four of the eastbound lanes attempting a left turn at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Kia Sorento with one occupant, was traveling west in lane two, attempting to pass through the intersection. V1 stopped to let three oncoming cars pass before attempting to turn left. At the intersection, the front of V2 impacted the right side of V1. V1 rotated clockwise and came to rest within the service road lanes. V2 continued to move through the intersection while rotating counter clockwise. V2 came to rest within the intersection. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. No injuries were reported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
A 43-year old female drove V1. She and the right front occupant were heading to a nearby department store during lunch break. She let three vehicles pass before she attempted to turn. At the time of the turn, she looked into the turning direction. She said she almost made it. The driver is in good health but uses an inhaler for unknown reasons. She stated it does not affect her driving. She was well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She was in no hurry and was not distracted by her passenger. She attempted no evasive maneuvers.
A 53-year old male drove V2. He had left a nearby department store. He could not exactly say if V1 turned left from oncoming traffic or if V1 crossed through the intersection. He believed V1 crossed through the intersection. He was heading home and was in no hurry. He is in good health, well rested and does not take any medication. I