This two-vehicle crash occurred on a four-lane, two-way asphalt roadway that has a center left turn lane, but just prior to the crash location becomes divide by a raised curb median.. This roadway runs east to west with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). This roadway approaches a railroad crossing and all buses stop as required before crossing. This crash occurred mid-afternoon with light traffic and good visibility. This road is straight and fairly level and free of any obvious defects.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1993 Chevrolet pickup driven by a twenty year old female with two passengers, was eastbound behind a school bus when it impacted the rear plane of the bus. The driver stated that she had been following this bus for about 0.8 kilometers (a half mile) and that it had stopped for a another railroad crossing just about 0.2 kilometers (one-eighth mile) prior. She stated that she was behind the bus about 20 meters (66 feet) when the bus initiated its flashers. This driver stated that she glanced over to the right front passenger and when she looked forward the bus was stopped and she was about to impact it. She stated she jammed the brakes and steered right but was unable to miss the bus. This driver complained of injury and was transported, treated and released. V1 was towed for damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.
Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Blue Bird school bus, driven by a thirty eight (38) year old female with twelve passengers was eastbound in the #1 lane and approached the railroad crossing. The driver initiated the flashing lights and came to a complete stop. The driver reached right and opened the right front door as required by regulation and was impacted in the rear by V1. The bus nudged forward one meter (3.28 feet) and came to rest still in the #1 lane. The driver complained of neck injury and was transported, treated and released. 12 students on board were treated on scene and released. The bus was driven from the scene by another valid driver.