This single vehicle rollover crash occurred on a two-lane, divided, interstate roadway in a rural area. The vehicle was traveling eastbound in the number two lane and was cut off by a non-contact vehicle traveling eastbound in the number one lane. The non-contact vehicle changed from the number one into the number two lane in front of vehicle one (V1). V1 went into the number one lane, entered a counterclockwise yaw, departed the roadway left and overturned four (4) quarter turns in the median. This segment of roadway for eastbound traffic is in a gradual curve left. There were no traffic controls present. This was a level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 105 kmph (65 mph). It was early morning hours. The road was dry and the weather clear.
V1, a 2005 Dodge four door Crew Cab pickup with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in the number two lane. The driver stated she was going 109 kmph (68 mph) when a vehicle in the number one lane about two car lengths ahead changed into the number two lane in front of her. She successfully avoided contact by steering right and entering the number one lane. She then steered left and applied the brakes causing a control loss in a counterclockwise yaw. V1 then departed the roadway on the left, tripped in the soft sand median, and overturned four quarter turns. The vehicle came to final rest on the wheels facing west. The distance was 6 meters (20 feet) from trip point to final rest. The restrained driver remained in the vehicle. The driver was transported with injuries. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1.
The driver of V1 was a twenty one (21) year old female in good health, did not require glasses and had taken no medications. She was going to work from her home and had driven 4.8 to 6.4 kilometers (3 to 4 miles) at the time of the crash. She said she had slept 8.5 hours the night before, began driving at the age of sixteen years and did have driver education in high school. She said the non-contact vehicle was about two car lengths ahead of her in the number one lane and made a lane change without warning in front of her. She successfully avoided contact by rapid steering to the right. She entered the number one lane and quickly steered left and applied the brakes. This caused a control loss as she entered a counterclockwise rotation back across the roadway. She exited the roadway on the left, entered the soft sand median and overturned. The vehicle came to rest on the wheels facing west. She was restrained and remained in the vehicle. She was transported with injuries and the vehicle was towed due to damage.