This two-vehicle crash occurred at an intersection in a residential area. The north/south roadway is a two way, two lane, undivided, straight, level asphalt roadway. Traffic at the intersection is controlled by stop signs. The northbound traffic lane leading to the intersection was partially covered with patches of packed snow on approach to the intersection. The east/west roadway is a three lane, two way roadway that is divided by a two-way left turn lane. The posted speed limit is 40 kmph (25 mph) for the north/south roadway and 56 kmph (35 mph) for the east/west roadway. This crash occurred during daylight hours; traffic flow was moderate. Banks of plowed snow lined both sides of the east/west roadway.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Ford Taurus with two occupants, was northbound in lane one, approaching the intersection with the intention of turning right. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Ford Expedition with one occupant, was eastbound in lane one, approaching the intersection with the intention of going straight. The driver of V1 applied the brakes but was unable to stop as it entered the intersection. The front of V1 struck the right side of V2. V2 rotated clockwise one hundred and eighty degrees and impacted a snow bank on the south side of the road with its left side tires. This caused V2 to roll one-quarter turn onto its left side. V2 came to rest facing west-northwest on top of the snow bank covering the sidewalk, curb, and part of lane one. It is unknown how V1 came to rest since it was moved prior to the researcher's arrival on-scene. V2 was towed due to damage; V1 was driven from the scene. The driver of V2 was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a forty-two-year-old female, was commuting from home to work with her two-year-old daughter. She said she was eating a bagel, but is pretty sure she put it down before she applied the brakes. She said it had been a very stressful morning and that she may have had problems on her mind. She has two jobs and admitted to being in a hurry to get to work, her primary job where she is a teacher. She hadn't, however, put in long hours working in the previous seven days because she had been on Christmas vacation from her teaching job until the day before. She is in good health, was well rested, drives this route daily, and is very comfortable with her vehicle.
The driver of V2, a forty-two-year-old female, was on her way home from getting a haircut. She was well rested and drives this route daily. She takes Avandia for her diabetes and is very comfortable driving her vehicle. She also takes Synthroid for hypothyroidism and blood pressure medication. The driver did not look far enough ahead to detect V1.