*** The driver of V1 gave an interview but claimed that she does not remember the circumstances of the accident.
The driver of V2 refused an interview. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The officers who were on the crash scene provided the information obtained about the accident. They received their information from their questioning of the driver of V2 before he left the scene. ***
This crash occurred in a four-way intersection of two 2-lane undivided roadways. The east/west roadway was controlled by stop signs; the north/south roadway had no traffic control device. Both roadways were straight, level, and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred in the late afternoon on a weekday and the roads were dry and the skies were clear. The traffic flow was moderately congested, but traffic was still moving along steadily.
V1, a 2007 Toyota Camry four-door, was traveling west through the intersection intending to continue straight through the intersection. V2, a 1999 International school bus, was traveling south through the intersection, also intending to continue straight through the intersection. As V1 approached the intersection, the driver ran through the stop sign and was struck on the right side by the front of the school bus as it traveled through the intersection. After impact, V1 rotated 180 degrees, coming to final rest approximately 10 meters away from point of impact facing east in the eastbound lane. V2 was not disabled from the accident and was driven to the side of the road.
V1, the 2007 Toyota Camry, was driven by a 20-year-old female who reported no injuries at the time of the accident. The driver was traveling west through the intersection and intended to continue straight through the intersection. When interviewing the driver, she and her passenger both stated that they were unsure if they were going straight through the intersection (westbound) and then struck the bus or if they were heading north and made a left in front of the bus causing the accident. They claimed that the reason that they were so unsure of where they were coming from and what they were intending to do was because they were new to the area, just moved here a week ago and it was hard for them to determine where they are going. The police officer on scene concluded from the other driver's statement, the vehicle damage, and the final rest of V1 that it makes the most sense that the driver was heading straight through the intersection and ran the stop sign.
V2, the school bus, was driven by an 81-year-old male who reported no injuries. The bus driver told the officers that as he approached the intersection he saw V1 run the stop sign and come straight across his path, forcing him to the strike V1.