This single-vehicle crash occurred along a curved left stretch of interstate. There were three travel lanes with a conjoining two lane major interstate merging in from the right. This roadway was bituminous asphalt divided from opposing traffic by a positive concrete barrier wall. There were rumble strips present on both sides of the road. The posted speed limit was 97 kmph (60 mph). The crash occurred in the early afternoon hours on a weekend when conditions were daylight and clear with severe crosswinds.
Vehicle 1 (V1), a 1997 Mitsubishi Eclipse with two occupants, was northbound in lane one. V1, while exceeding the posted speed limit, made a sudden lane change from lane one to lane three, the far left lane. V1 departed its lane slightly onto the left shoulder. The driver of V1 then steered hard right to re-enter the roadway. V1 began to rotate clockwise and cross all three travel lanes. V1 then crossed the neutral area and the two lanes of the merging expressway. V1 then departed the right side of the roadway with its left side leading. V1 left 104 meters (341 feet) of yaw marks on the pavement. The grass ditch to the right of the roadway was 6.4 meters (21 Feet) with a -20% grade. At the bottom of the ditch there were large white drainage rocks. The other side of the ditch was 9.3 meters (31 feet) with a +38% grade. When V1 departed the road, it when airborne and struck the large rocks at the bottom of the ditch with its left side (event 1). At that point V1 also began to rollover, left side leading. V1 rolled left 12 quarter turns covering 48 meters (158 feet), before coming to final rest on its wheels facing west. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 185 kmph for V1.
The driver of V1, a 21-year-old male, was transported from the scene for treatment of non-incapacitating injuries (and briefly losing consciousness). The driver claims that he and his sister were in the car they had bought five days prior. They were driving from his house to his sister's house in lane three at 112 kmph (70 mph), when all of a sudden the right, front tire blew out. The driver tried steering the car, but couldn't regain control. It went across all travel lanes to the right and off the road where it rolled over several times. The vehicle was bought used; they thought the tires were fine. Based on statements made by witness and the police this account was determined to be unreliable.
There were two witnesses' that stopped and reported to the police that V1 was traveling in a careless and reckless manner. V1 started out in lane one and passed one of the witnesses and than lost control before rolling over an estimated three times. Further attempts to contact these witnesses proved unsuccessful.