This two-vehicle crash occurred at dusk on a weekday in the middle of a four-way, residential intersection. The intersection was composed of a three-lane east/west roadway (one lane in each direction divided by a center left turn lane) and a two-lane north/south roadway that was controlled by a stop sign. Both roadways were bituminous, dry, and straight. There was a slight uphill grade for northbound traffic. The posted speed limit for the east/west roadway was 64 kmph (40mph) while the north/south roadway had a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1993 Lincoln Towncar with two occupants, was eastbound on the roadway approaching the intersection where it intended to continue straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 GM school bus with three occupants, was stopped facing north at the intersection where it also intended to travel straight across. As V2 entered the intersection, the front of the vehicle struck the right rear of V1. After the initial impact, V1 then proceeded off of the right side of the roadway where it struck a building. V1 came to final rest entirely off of the roadway, facing south against the building. V2 continued forward slightly coming to final rest in its original lane of travel. V1 had to be removed from the scene due to vehicle damage. V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a 75-year-old male, suffered bruising of the shoulder and chest and was taken to the hospital for treatment. There was one other occupant in the vehicle seated in the right front passenger seat that was not injured. The driver related that he was traveling down the roadway and partially saw the bus stopped at the intersection. He suspected that the driver of the school bus didn't thoroughly check both ways before entering the intersection. He was very familiar with the roadways and his vehicle was functioning well.
The driver of V2, a 68-year-old female, was not injured as a result of the crash and did not require any medical treatment. There were two other passengers in the vehicle that also did not suffer any injuries. The driver claimed that she came to a complete stop at the stop sign for more than 10 seconds, waiting for a chance to cross. She believed that the other driver must have been speeding because the other V2 was not in her sight when she attempted to cross the intersection. She further purported that the roadway design was such that it was difficult to see. She was very familiar with the roadways, however she has not been licensed to drive this class of vehicle for more than a year.