This three-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection in an interchange area. The northbound approach is a one-way, three-lane, level roadway with a curve to the right. The eastbound approach is a one-way, four-lane, level, straight roadway. The speed limit for these roadways is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Ford Taurus, was northbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Ford Windstar, was eastbound in lane two and vehicle three (V3), a 1992 Oldsmobile Cutlass Ciera, was eastbound in lane three next to V2. In the intersection, the front of V1 struck the right side of V2. Both vehicles rotated and the left side of V1 struck the right side of V2. The left side of V2 then struck the right side of V3. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a -year-old male, was not interviewed. No further information is available for this driver.
The driver of V2, a seventy-five-year-old male, was traveling with his seventy-three-year-old wife and fifty-two-year-old son. They were traveling from their home to lunch. This driver was well rested and comfortable with his vehicle and passengers. He travels this route weekly. This driver has numerous healthy issues including diabetes, heart and lung problems and recent back surgery. He takes the following medications: Advair, Albuterol, Aspirin, Benicar, Glucotrol XL, Lantus, Lasix, Lipitor, Lopressor, Milk of Magnesia, Percocet, Potassium Chloride, Amiodarone and Fosamax. He stated that he was thinking about his health just prior to the crash. He further stated that he did not see V1 prior to the crash.
The driver of V3, a forty-eight-year-old male, was on his way from a store to church. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He rarely travels this route. This driver stated that he has high blood pressure and takes an unspecified medication for it. He stated that he was aware of V2 in the lane next to him but did not see V1 prior to the crash.