The crash occurred at the intersection of an undivided four-lane east/west roadway and a north/south multi-lane lane highway. The two eastbound lanes and the two westbound lanes each included one left turn-only lane. The intersection was straight and level. The light at the intersection was green at the time of the crash for both east and westbound lanes. The traffic light for the east/west lanes did not have a left turn arrow. It was a weeknight, it was dark out, the sky was cloudy but the road was lighted at the intersection. The posted speed was 48 kmph (30 mph) for the east/west roadway and 89 kmph (55 mph) for the north/south highway.
V1, a 1972 Chevrolet C-10 large pick-up truck, was driven by a 66-year-old male. The driver stated that he had left his Lodge, heading home, when the crash occurred. Prior to the crash, he had been stopped in the left turn lane facing east with his left turn indicator on, at the intersection for over three minutes waiting for the light to change. Once the light turned green, he drove V1 forward and began turning left into the northbound lanes. Unfortunately, a vehicle (V2) was traveling west in lane one, passing through the intersection, at the same time V1 turned left, and V1 struck the left side of V2 with its front. V1 continued forward (north) two meters, coming to rest in the center of the intersection facing north. The driver of V1 stated that he had checked the oncoming traffic prior to turning left and was sure the path was clear. He thought that the headlight glare from the surrounding traffic concealed the approach of V2. The driver of V1 was uninjured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2, a 1993 Dodge Intrepid four-door sedan, was driven by a 27 year-old male traveling with a 22 year-old male friend. The driver stated that he had just left the mini-mart on his way to pick up his son when the crash occurred. Prior to the crash he had been stopped facing westbound in lane one for two minutes waiting for the light to turn green. When the light turned green, he proceeded into the intersection. As he passed the northbound lanes, he noticed oncoming headlights rapidly nearing his vehicle. He attempted to avoid a collision by steering right and braking but V1 still struck him. The force of the crash caused V2 to decelerate suddenly, coming to rest in at the north end of the intersection facing west. The occupants also commented on the extensive head light glare as they passed through the intersection. The occupants were uninjured.