The crash occurred in the middle of a four-way offset intersection. There were five lanes running north/south with lanes one, two, running north and with lane three being a turn lane. Lanes four and five ran southbound. The east/west roadway was offset 3.2 meters and the roadway was controlled by a stop sign. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekend evening. The roadway was level and the posted speed was 56 KPH.
V1 was a 2004 Ford Escape that was traveling eastbound in lane one. The driver decelerated through the stop sign to cross the intersection and was hit by V2, a 1998 Ford Windstar that was traveling northbound in lane one. V1 was hit on the right rear tire causing V1 to rotate clockwise and come to final rest facing westbound. V2 sustained front-end damage and after the impact, the driver got so nervous about her passengers safety that she tried to put the van in park but put it into reverse and hit a fence. No one was injured but both V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. V1 was cited for the crash for failure to stop a traffic control device. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1 was driven by a 39-year-old woman who was on her way with her family to go home. They had just left the football stadium and her uncle was telling her to go straight through the stop sign, as she didn't know the best route home. She stated that as she went across the lanes she saw the van coming from her right. She decided to accelerate to try to avoid the collision all together. She was unsuccessful as V2 tried to accelerate as well. She was hit on the right rear tire. She was cited for failure to stop at a traffic control device.
V2 was driven by a 26-year-old woman who was traveling northbound in lane one on her way to bring her husband dinner at his work. She was traveling the speed limit when she stated that V1 just speed across the lanes right in front of her. She thought to hit the gas to try to avoid getting hit but was unsuccessful as V1 also hit the gas. V2 sustained front-end damage, but after the crash D2 accidently put her car in reverse hitting a chain link fence causing rear end damage as well.