This two-vehicle crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a fully controlled divided major highway; five southbound lanes with a raised metal guardrail divided five northbound opposing lanes. This southbound section of lanes included a wide shoulder area located on the right side of the southbound lanes used for emergency stopping. The bituminous covered roadway was dry, level, straight, and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit was 89 kmph (55 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during the late night hours. Overhead streetlights were used to illuminate the dark roadway. There were no noticeable defects on this roadway and the traffic flow was normally light for this time of night.
Vehicle one, a 2006 BMW X3 4-door SUV, was traveling southbound in lane four when the driver claims he was avoiding being contacted by an unknown vehicle traveling in the adjacent lane on the right side. Vehicle one veered to the left and sideswiped vehicle two, a 2000 Mazda 626 4-door sedan, also traveling southbound in lane five. After the initial impact, vehicle one rotated clockwise across three lanes it rolled onto it left side and contacted the guardrail beyond the right shoulder area crashing into it with its left rear corner. Vehicle one continued over the guardrail going airborne and hitting the concrete wall with its left rear. It then came to final rest straddling the guardrail facing eastward on its left side. Vehicle one was eventually lifted off the guardrail and towed from the scene. The damages to vehicle two were moderate and after the impact came to a controlled stop and was later allowed to drive away from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
Vehicle one was driven by a 45-year old male, he explained how he was returning home from visiting friends whom he hadn't seen in awhile. He felt rested when beginning this leg of the trip, he had driven roughly 8-miles when an unknown passenger type vehicle attempted to cross into his lane from his right side forcing him to steered right and then 'jerk' left where he lost control. He found himself entering lane five to his left where he sideswiped the right side of vehicle two, the Mazda 626. After that, he said, he lost control of the vehicle and slid sideways across all the lanes and crashing into the guardrail. He climbed on top of the guardrail, and rolled over onto the vehicles passenger's side. The driver explained that he had to exit the vehicle by kicking out the sunroof because at that point the vehicle was resting on the passengers side and he was pinned inside. It all happened so fast and he was so nervous during the entire crash that he was not sure of the exact sequence of events. He doesn't remember doing anything in particular or any distractions before the crash occurred. The driver was transporter from the scene to the hospital by medics with non-life threatening injuries.
Vehicle two was driven by a 21-year old male with one occupant, he stated he was traveling in the far left lane at about 64-80 kmph (40-50 mph) when he saw vehicle one in the lane to his right suddenly attempt to enter his lane. So he tapped on his brakes to try to slow his vehicle down, but it was no use, V1 crashed into the side of his vehicle. Afterwards he was able to slow his vehicle down to a controlled stop. He saw V1 travel right across all the other lanes completely over to the other side of the highway. Neither the driver nor the passenger of V2 was injured. He travels on this highway weekly.