The crash occurred in the intersection of a six-lane roadway divided by a grass median with no positive barrier. This was a straight, level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 80 kmph (50 mph). The sky was clear and there were no adverse weather conditions. It happened in the late part of the evening. Traffic flow was light.
V1, a 1998 For Escort was stopped at the intersection waiting for the arrow to turn green. V2, a 2006 Mercedes R350 was traveling south in lane four and V3, a Honda CRV was traveling south in lane two. V1 then turned against the red light and entered the intersection. V2 swerved to miss V1 but still struck it on the right front side, as V1 rotated counter clockwise the back right of V1 contacted the back left of V2. After striking V1, V2 struck V3 on its left front side and pushing it to the right. Both vehicles partially left the roadway and up on the curb. V2 struck a light post and both vehicles came to a rest partially on the embankment. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, a 1998 Ford Escort four door compact was driven by a 79 year old female who was traveling with her sister and her friend. Driver stated that she had just come back from a trip with her sister and her friend. They had just picked their car up from a metro station parking lot where they left it to go to the airport. Driver of V1stated that she still is not to sure why she made the turn. She said she assumed that the light was green. She stated that she noticed the vehicles to her right entering the intersection so she decided to proceed. She said she remembers being spun around and then soon being helped out by the paramedics.
V2, the 2006 Mercedes R350 4-door SUV was driven by a 37 year old male who was traveling with seven other passengers. In the vehicle he had a 21, 20, 25, 13, and a 1 year old. He stated that he had just come back from a holiday celebration at a restaurant and was on his way home with his extended family. He stated that he was driving in lane four at a rate of speed of 80 kmph (50 mph) when he saw V1 approaching the intersection. He said he assumed that the driver would stop but it didn't look like she was going to. He said as he neared the intersection, he saw V1 continuing to enter so he prepared to switch lanes to the right. He then said she was in his lane so he swerved to the right and slammed on the brakes. Upon doing so he struck V3 who was beside him to his right. He then struck the curb to the right and hit a light post where he came to rest.
V3, Honda CRV SUV 4-door was driven by a 30 year old male who was traveling with three siblings and a 1 year old and a friend. They had just left his fathers house. He stated that he was traveling at about 80 kmph (50 mph) before he entered the intersection. He also stated that he never saw V1 when she entered the intersection. He said he saw when V2 swerved to the right which led him to slam on his brakes. He said his vehicle was still being pushed to the right as he skidded along side it and then hit the curb with V2.