This two-vehicle crash occurred at an urban three-legged, signal controlled intersection. This roadway contained raised curbs and sidewalks in all directions, but lacked pedestrian crosswalks. There were two westbound lanes and two eastbound lanes divided by a left turn lane in the westbound direction. Westbound approach was straight with an +3.3% uphill grade. Eastbound approach curved left with a +3% super-elevation and a -5% downhill grade. The posted speed limit is 64 kph (40 mph) and the surface type is bituminous. Setting was afternoon hours on a weekday. Setting was daylight, cloudy and dry with light traffic flow.
Vehicle One is a 2004 Dodge Neon, four-door, intermediate with one occupant, traveling westbound in lane three, the left turn lane. Vehicle Two is a 1998 Honda Accord, four-door, intermediate with two occupants traveling eastbound in lane two. V1 turned left in front of V2. The front of V2 contacted the right plane of V1 (event 1) in the intersection. Neither vehicle made any avoidance maneuvers. V1 rotated counterclockwise after impact and traveled 17.1 meters in a southeast direction. V1 came to final rest partially on the south curb and partially in eastbound lane one facing east. V2 traveled 5.5 meters (18 feet) east after impact and came to final rest in the intersection facing south. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1 is a 36 year-old female who suffered a broken leg in this crash and was transported by EMS for treatment. She works 40 hours per week as a staff recruiter. On this day, she had lost track of time while working and didn't realize it was so late. She had been late for picking her son up at his elementary school. She reported being in a "huge rush" due to being 30 minutes late. She came to a complete stop at the intersection and waited a few seconds until it was clear to turn left. As she started from a stop, she was unexpectedly struck on the right side by V2 in the intersection. Her travel speed was less than 16 kph (10 mph). She never saw V2 prior to impact. She drives this roadway daily and says the eastbound hill and curve obstruct the vision of westbound vehicles. However since she never saw V2, she couldn't offer a reason why she never saw V2. After impact, her vehicle spun 360 degrees in the roadway and threw her into the passenger seat of her car due to a lack of seatbelt use. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling right-side damage.
The driver of V2 is a 20 year-old male who suffered minor injuries and was not transported from the scene. He suffers from Cerebral Palsy, but claims it does not affect his driving ability's. He and his girlfriend had just left his apartment, stopped by a fast food restaurant and were going to a local park for a leisurely walk. They got their food to-go, but were waiting till they got to the park to eat it. He said as he came around the left curve at 64 kph (40 mph), he noticed V1 stopped in the left turn lane. As he came down the hill, his light changed from green to yellow. That's when V1 unexpectedly made a left turn in front of him. It happened so quickly all he remembered was hearing the driver of V1 scream, then airbags going off in his face. He said there was no time to attempt any avoidance maneuvers. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.