This three-vehicle crash occurred on a six lane divided roadway. In the westbound direction, the roadway consisted of three through lanes. This roadway was straight, bituminous, and uphill with a posted speed limit of 105 kmph (65 mph). The crash occurred during early morning hours with moderate traffic congestion. The road is illuminated at night. The road surface was icy with blowing snow conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Mazda 3 with only the driver present, was westbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Dodge Dakota with only the driver present was westbound in lane two in front of V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 1997 Ford F150 with five occupants, was westbound in lane three. V1 was behind V2 when V2 started to slow for traffic ahead. V1 attempted to slow down and steer left to avoid contacting V2 but was unable to do so because of the icy road conditions and the front of V1 contacted the back of V2. This in turn caused V1 to rotate counterclockwise and enter lane three where the front of V3 contacted the left side of V1. V1 came to rest facing north in lanes two and three. V2 and V3 both were driven to final rest. V1 was towed due to damage while V2 and V3 were driven from the scene. No one was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1 and 89 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a twenty-two-year-old male, was on his way to work from home when the crash occurred. He stated being rested, drives this route daily and is very comfortable with this vehicle. The driver also reports being in good health. He was listening to the radio as he was driving. He stated he was following V2 at a distance of 3 meters (10 feet) while traveling approximately 66-80 kmph (41-50 mph). The investigating officer estimated this driver's speed to be 89 kmph (55 mph). The driver stated he attempted to avoid V2 by braking and steering left and right, but lost control due to the icy roadway.
The driver of V2, a forty-four-year-old male, was on his way to work from home when the crash occurred. He stated being well rested, drives this route daily and is comfortable with this vehicle. The driver is hard of hearing but does not have a hearing aid. The driver was slowing due to stopped traffic ahead when his vehicle was hit from behind. He did not see V1 till impact.
The driver of V3, a forty-one-year-old male, was also on his way to work from home when the crash occurred. He stated being well rested, drives this route weekly and is comfortable with this vehicle. The driver also reports being in good health.