The crash occurred in an intersection of a north/south and east/west roadway. The east/west roadway had three lanes: two westbound and one eastbound. The north/south roadway had four lanes northbound and three lanes southbound. The north and southbound lanes were divided by a raised curb median. The conditions were dry and clear. Both roadways were straight and level. The posted speed limit on the north/south roadway was 56 kmph (35 mph) and on the east/west roadway the posted speed limit was 40 kmph (25 mph). The intersection was controlled by a properly functioning traffic signal. The crash occurred on a weekday afternoon.
V1 was a 2004 Ford F-450 heavy truck that was originally traveling in lane two northbound. The driver was on his way to another work stop. The driver was approaching the intersection and changed lanes from lane two to lane one. As he changed lanes, he realized that the light had turned from yellow to red. The driver tried to stop the truck but was not successful. V1 entered the intersection and the right front of V1 struck the left front of V2, a 2007 Chrysler 300 4-door sedan that was traveling westbound in lane two on the east/west roadway. V2 had a green light and the driver was making a left hand turn when V1 ran through the red light and hit V2 in the left side. The passenger of V1 was treated on scene and both vehicles were towed due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.
V1 was driven by a 22-year-old male who worked for a roofing company. The driver and his co-worker were on their way to their office. The driver stated in the interview that before the intersection he was traveling northbound in lane two and made a lane change into lane one. After he made the lane change he stated that the traffic light turned from yellow to red and he was unable to stop in time without hitting V2, which was making a left hand turn at the intersection. The driver of V1 was given a ticket for failure to stop at a traffic light.
V2 was driven by a 38-year-old male who was visiting from out of town. He was on his way to the airport. The driver was in lane two making a left turn at the intersection when he was struck by V1.