This two-vehicle crash occurred in an urban intersection during the late evening hours of a weekday. The intersection was controlled by a traffic signal. There were two northbound lanes (one-way) and two east and two westbound lanes. The posted speed limit was 48 kmph (30 mph) on the east/westbound roadway and 40 kmph (25 mph) for the northbound roadway. The surface type for both roadways was that of bituminous asphalt. The roadways were dry, straight, and level. There were no indications of physical damage. Weather conditions were cloudy and cold. It was dark out, but there were streetlights to illuminate the roadway.
V1, a 1994 Buick Century 4-door sedan, was traveling northbound through the intersection in lane two of the roadway when it was struck by V2, a 2008 Dodge Caliber 5-door hatchback, which was traveling westbound through the intersection. The front left corner of V2 struck the right front of V1. V2 allegedly proceeded into the intersection on a red traffic light. After the initial impact, V2 rotated clockwise and side slapped the right rear of V1.This impact sent V2 into another clockwise rotation and it came to final rest in lane two of eastbound travel. V1 rotated slightly (clockwise) and ended up travelling northbound for approximately 20 meters before coming to final rest in a gas station lot. Both vehicles suffered major damage and had to be towed from the scene. Both vehicles had full deployment of frontal airbags. V2 had three occupants; all parties involved in the crash were transported to a medical facility to be evaluated. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a 21 year-old female in generally good health, stated she just finished up painting at a nearby residence, and was making her way back home when the crash occurred. The driver reported traveling northbound through a steady green light when she saw V2 coming into her path. The driver wanted to react by maneuvering, but was unable to do so as she "froze up." The driver didn't even have an opportunity to apply her brakes. Once she was struck, she remembers her vehicle spinning and going straight into the gas station lot where it came to final rest. The driver has been driving for approximately two years and has taken a driver's education course to help with her driving. The driver also reported having been in a crash a month prior to this particular crash. The roadway was frequented by the driver on a weekly basis. The driver also admitted to listening to the radio prior the crash.
The driver of V2, a 40 year-old female, could not be reached for an interview. The two passengers in the vehicle were 22 years old and 6 months old - seating position unknown. No other information was obtained about the driver or her passengers.