This three-vehicle crash occurred on a physically divided six-lane highway with no controls. Eastbound traffic consists of three through lanes and is on a right curve, bituminous, dry and downhill, with a posted speed limit of 105 kmph (65 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with evening rush hour congestion. The radius of the curve is unknown.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2008 Pontiac Grand Prix with two occupants, was eastbound in lane three, negotiating the curve. Vehicle two (V2), an unknown hit and run heavy truck, was eastbound in lane three negotiating the curve in front of V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 1996 Dodge Ram with one occupant, was eastbound in lane two negotiating the curve. The driver of V1 after realizing V2 was traveling slower, steered to the right to avoid the crash, but the front of V1 struck the rear of the trailer on V2. V1 entered lane two into the path of V3. The driver of V3 applied his brakes to avoid impacting V1 and was not successful. The front of V3 struck the right side of V1. V1 began to rotate counterclockwise into lane three and off the left side of the road, impacting a cement barrier with its right side. V1 rotated off the cement barrier and came to rest on its wheels facing northwest in lane three and the shoulder. V2, after the impact, might not have known it was hit and continued eastbound. V3, after the impact, came to rest on the right shoulder on its wheels facing east. The driver of V3 was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, thirty-eight year-old female was traveling to a new church from the hotel where she was staying. She and the occupant were in the process of moving to this state from another. She is not familiar with the highway and had concerns because she came from a very small town that had only one traffic light. At the time of the crash, she was talking to the occupant. She also stated she had concerns about her employment, family and the move. She stated she was stressed because her children were still at home in the other state. She would work twenty-four hours during the week, fly home to be with the children and pack. This was her second time on the highway and her third time driving the vehicle. She is in good health and takes Vitamins and Flaxseed oil on a regular basis.
The driver of V2 is unknown since the vehicle did not stay at the scene and was not interviewed.
The driver of V3, a thirty year-old male was driving from his sister's house and going to class. He is in good health, was well rested and was wearing his prescription glasses for near sightedness. He drives this roadway daily and is very familiar with the vehicle.