This two-vehicle crash occurred during the early afternoon hours at an intersection with traffic lights. The north/south trafficway is divided by a curbed median. The northbound lanes have a downhill grade, curve to the left and consist of two through lanes, a right turn lane and a left turn lane. The east/west road is a 5-lane, undivided (two-way traffic) concrete roadway. This roadway curves to the right in the westbound direction. The speed limit is 48 kph (30 mph) for both roadways. The road surfaces were dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash. There was moderate traffic on the roadways. A maintenance crew was working on the traffic signals at the intersection. At the time of the crash, the signals were flashing red for all traffic approaching the intersection.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Hyundai Sonata with three occupants, was traveling north in the second lane of traffic and was passing through the intersection of both roadways. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Chevrolet Trailblazer with one occupant, was traveling west in the second lane. At the intersection of both roadways, the front of V2 impacted the right side of V1. V1 rotated clockwise and came to rest in northbound lane two, north of the intersection, facing south. V2 rotated clockwise after the impact, and came to rest within the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1 was towed from the scene. V2 was driven from the scene. The right front and right rear occupants in V1 were taken to a local hospital with non-incapacitating injuries.
A 46-year old male was driving V1, the 2004 Hyundai Sonata. He, his wife and his son had been on a hospital visit in the area. They were driving around looking for a restaurant. The driver said he rarely drives in this area. He said he saw a worker with a warning vest and a radio checking the lights at the intersection.
A 29-year old female drove V2, the 2006 Chevrolet Trailblazer. She stated she was in the second lane, traveling at a normal rate of speed. She was heading from her home to her part-time job. She stated that she was talking on the phone and saw that she had a green light while the other vehicles had a flashing red light. When she saw V1 crossing in front of her, she dropped her phone and applied the brakes to avoid the impact. She was aware the lights were flashing but insisted she still had a green light while the lights for the north-south traffic started to flash at the moment she approached the intersection.
Two witnesses at the scene confirmed the lights were flashing red for all four directions. Both witnesses confirmed the driver of V2 was talking on her cell phone and the driver failed to stop prior to entering the intersection.