This crash occurred in a 4-way intersection. The east/west road was a two-lane undivided roadway with one lane in each direction. The east/west roadway was controlled by a stop sign. The north/south road was a two-lane undivided roadway with one lane in each direction. All the roadways involved are straight, level, bituminous roadways with a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred in the mid-morning on a weekday. The roads were dry and skies were clear. The traffic flow was moderate with a little bit of stop-and-go activity.
V1, a 2006 Toyota Seqouia sport utility vehicle with one occupant was heading west in lane one intending on continuing straight through the intersection. V2, a 1995 Chevrolet Cavalier with two occupants heading south in lane one intending on continuing heading south. As V1 came to the stop sign and slowed down but did not stop and continued through the intersection striking V2, whom had the right of way. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the 2006 Toyota Sequia was driven by a 34-year-old female who reported possible injuries and was transported to a medical facility. The driver stated that she has 6 kids, one being down syndrome. Her and her husband have been having a lot of problems and concerns along with the problems and concerns of a family and it has been weighing heavily on her lately. She said in the interview with me that she came to the stop sign stopped, did not see anything and then proceed through and that was when she was hit. However, on the police report she stated to the officers that she was distracted by a cat crossing the roadway and that was why she ran the stop sign. After V1 ran the stop sign she stated that she tried to brake but was unable to avoid the collision and V2 hit her.
V2, the 1995 Chevy Cavalier was driven by a 53-year-old male who reported possible injuries and was transported to a medical facility. His passenger, a 53-year-old male was also transported to a medical facility with non-incapacitating injuries. The driver stated that as he came to the intersection he saw V1 and assumed that she would stop and continued through. V1 did not stop and she struck him. He attempted to avoid the collision by braking but was unsuccessful.