The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. The north/south roadway was a two-way, two-lane undivided street. The east/west roadway was a two-way, two-lane undivided street, controlled by a stop sign. These were straight, level, asphalt roads, with posted speeds of 48 kmph (30 mph) in all directions. Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon, with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.
V1, a 2007 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan with one occupant, was stopped at the stop sign, facing eastbound in lane one. V2, a 2000 Honda Civic coupe with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane one, approaching the same intersection. V1 accelerated into the intersection and the front of V1 made contact with the left side of V2. After impact, V2 continued northbound. The vehicle traveled off the right side of the roadway, returned to the roadway, and then traveled off the left side of the roadway. The front of V2 made contact with a chain link fence, coming to final rest near the fence. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.
V1, the Toyota Corolla, was driven by a 21-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he was heading home from an auto dealership. He came to a complete stop at the intersection, and began to write a short text message to someone. The driver said that he did not notice a FedEx truck pull up from behind. The motorist claimed that he was startled when the FedEx truck honked at him. The anxious driver reacted by pulling into the intersection without looking, and subsequently struck V2. Three witnesses, who were playing outside at the time of the crash, gave a conflicting account of the event. They insisted that there was no truck behind V1. Instead, the witnesses said that the driver accelerated rapidly from a stop, squealing his tires. This was confirmed by physical evidence at the scene. Witnesses also stated that the driver of V1 attempted to drive the vehicle away from the scene, but could not due to the damage to his vehicle.