The first crash occurred in lane one of a two lane southbound highway before the road widened to three lanes to include a turn lane for the crossover. Guardrails bordered both sides of the southbound roadway. All events occurred on a level section of a right curving road following a 2 percent downhill slope and prior to a 2 percent uphill slope. The crash occurred during the evening commuting hours at dusk, and it was raining heavily. The posted speed was 89 kmph (55 mph) on this well traveled road located in a rural wooded area.
V1 was a Ford F-350 DS crew cab 4X4 pickup truck driven by a 37 year-old male. The driver was on his way home from the grocery store, which he had left five minutes prior to the crash. He stated that he was traveling at a rate of about 72 kmph (45 mph) in the southbound lane two, negotiating the slight right curve. As he reached the bottom of the slope, his truck began fishtailing to the right. His vehicle continued rotating counterclockwise, skidding into lane one. He attempted steering into the curve and braking but his tires were no longer making contact with the road due to standing water. V1 was facing east when it hydroplaned into lane one, and its left rear side was struck by the front left corner of V2. After the collision with V2, V1 continued its counterclockwise rotation, and struck the right side guardrail with the front bumper. The bumper was torn from V1 by the guardrail as the vehicle continued its rotation. V1 skidded across all lanes of travel and came to final rest facing east on the median at the crossover. The driver was not visibly injured, although he broke the front left window with his head. He was not transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2, a 2000 Chrysler Town and Country minivan, was driven by a 19 year-old female. The driver was on her way to pick up her daughter after leaving home ten minutes prior to the crash. She stated that she was traveling south in lane one at a rate of about 80 kmph (50 mph) and had seen V1, which was ahead of her and to the left, start to encroach into her lane. Unaware that V1 was out of control, she honked in an attempt to warn the driver of V1 of her presence. The driver braked and steered to the right in an attempt to avoid V2; however, the left front of V2 crashed into V1. V2 then rotated counterclockwise, and struck the guardrail with the right front portion of V2. After crashing into the guardrail, V2 continued its counterclockwise spin, coming to rest facing east on the right shoulder with the back of V2 inches from the same guardrail.