The crash occurred at the intersection of a two-way, two-lane, straight, and level secondary arterial road that ran north/south and a two-way, two-lane, straight residential road that ran east/west and had a negative 5% grade on the westbound approach to the stop-sign at the arterial. The arterial was bordered by grass yards and on the southeast side of the intersection one yard had a wooden privacy fence. The east/west road was controlled at the intersection by stop signs and the north/south road did not have any traffic controls. Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight and dry near late morning on a weekend. The speed limit on the arterial was 64kph/40mph.
V1 was a 2005 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 2wd pickup truck that was originally traveling west on the residential road when it accelerated and turned left (south) onto the arterial disregarding the stop sign and leaving acceleration wheel hop tire marks on the pavement measuring 19 meters (from start to end). As V1 made the left turn it then crossed (in a counterclockwise yaw) the northbound travel lane and departed the left (east) side of the arterial road where it then began a clockwise yaw while attempting to stop and struck the above mentioned privacy fence with its front and the undercarriage had a fencepost lodge between the right tie-rod and the cross member restricting steering ability as V1's right contacted the west most portion of the privacy fence and came to rest. The researcher was told on scene by police that V1 was to be towed from the scene but the police report shows it as driven away. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
V1 was driven by an unrestrained-twenty-six-year-old-female who was transported for treatment of possible injuries to a local hospital. She was charged by police for driving on a suspended license. Her four-month-old-male-passenger in position 22 (in an infant safety seat) was also transported via personal vehicle to an area hospital for treatment of possible injuries. Her husband who was in the bed of the pickup at the time of the crash on an air mattress was uninjured and was arrested on scene for domestic abuse. The driver stated that he had earlier hit her (D1) (in the face with his fist) and pulled (he was driving 1st) over to get her out of the truck when she slid into the drivers seat. As she pulled away he jumped into the bed of the truck and began to kick the backlight and her fear of him was what caused her to drive so fast and crash.