The crash occurred at a Y intersection at the point where a westbound, level road curves to the right, and another road comes in on the left. The two-way, two-lane road had a posted speed limit of 80 kmh (50mph). Conditions at the time of the weekend afternoon crash were daylight, cloudy and wet on the bituminous roads.
V1, a 2007 Jeep Grand Cherokee 4-door driven by a 47 year-old female on her commute from home to work was westbound on the road behind a non-contact vehicle traveling about 40 mph. The driver stated that the vehicle in front of her kept braking and slowing and was proceeding to the right at the split in the road. The driver of V1 decided to turn left at the split instead of continuing around the curve to the right. As the driver of V1 crossed the centerline to turn left, the driver of the non-contact vehicle activated its left blinker. The driver of V1 blew her horn and was looking to the right at the other vehicle. V2 was traveling southeast around the curve in the opposite direction of V1. The drivers of V1 and V2 did not see each other's vehicles due to the non-contact vehicle. The driver of V1 saw V2 at the last second and slammed on her brakes. The front of V1 struck the front of V2 in the westbound lane. V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest in the westbound lane facing southwest. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver refused treatment at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2, a 2004 Suburu Impreza WRX 4 door driven by a 21 year-old male out for a test drive from the car dealership, was southeast on the curve traveling 35-45 mph. The posted speed limit for his section of the road was 64 kmh (40 mph) with a posted advisory sign of 48 kmh (30 mph). The driver stated that he was driving on the long curve to the left and suddenly v1 came out from behind another vehicle which was moving slowly westbound on the road. The driver of V2 braked at the last second. V2 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest facing northeast in the eastbound lane. V2 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver and the 24 year-old female front right passenger were transported to a local trauma center due to injuries.