This three-vehicle crash occurred at an intersection with traffic lights. The road is a six-lane divided (no positive barrier) asphalt roadway from west to east. It is a five lane divided (no positive barrier) asphalt roadway from north to south. Lane one and two of the southbound lanes were not separated by a lane line, but lane was marked as a right turn only lane. The speed limit is 48 kph (30 mph) for both roadways. The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash. It was late evening on a weekday and there was normal traffic on the roadways.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Nissan Maxima with two occupants was traveling west in the third lane of traffic, approaching the intersection of both roadways. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Cadillac Deville with one occupant, and vehicle three (V3) a 1997 Ford Taurus with one occupant, were stopped at a red light in lane two (V3) and lane three (V2) of the southbound lanes. Both vehicles proceeded into the intersection after receiving a green light. At the intersection of both roadways, the front of V2 impacted the right side of V1. V1 continued to travel west. The front of V3 impacted the right side of V1 as well. V1 rotated clockwise, kept moving west and departed the roadway onto the west median of the intersection. The back right side of V1 impacted the pole of a traffic light. V1 rotated clockwise around the pole until it came to final rest in the eastbound left turn lanes, facing southeast. V2 and V3 both came to rest within the intersection. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene. V3 was driven from the scene. The driver of V2 was briefly treated at the scene and then taken to a local hospital. The fire department personnel on scene manually pushed V2 out of the intersection onto the west curb of the southbound lanes. The vehicle was towed from that position. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
A 37-year-old male drove V1, the 2001 Nissan Maxima. The driver refused to be interviewed on scene. The 34-year old right front occupant of V1 was slightly aggressive toward a witness on scene and the researcher. Both occupants were found to be under the influence of alcohol and were both arrested at the scene. A witness on scene stated V1 ran the red light at a high rate of speed. The same witness was interviewed on the phone later. Another witness confirmed the statements made by the drivers of V2 and V3. The witness was stopped in lane two at the red light and saw both vehicles to his left being stopped as well. He saw how V1 did not stop for the red light and the witness was able to stop and avoid impacting V1 after it impacted V2 and V2.
A 31-year-old male was the driver of V2, the 2002 Cadillac Deville. He was in general good health and did not take any medication. He was heading for a gas station after he paid a bill at a business. He did not want to make too many personal statements and could be partially interviewed only. He said he looked to his right for an unknown reason and did not see V1 until he got hit.
A 23-year old female, who reported light injuries, drove V3 the 1997 Ford Taurus. She said she saw V1 coming from her left and applied the brakes. V2 was driving on her left side. She stated V2 was rolling further into the intersection after the initial impact. The driver was heading from her home to a friend's residence. She rarely drives on this roadway. She made a detour after learning traffic on the nearby highway was backed up and slow moving. She is in good health, was well rested and does not take any medication.
A critical pre-crash event and reason was not coded to this vehicle, because it was not involved in the first harmful event.