This two-vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane mountain road. There was one lane in each direction. This was a left curve for northbound trafficway that was an uphill, bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 72 kmph (45 mph). It was mid afternoon on a weekend and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was congested, with stop and go activity.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Chrysler Concorde four-door with three occupants, was northbound in lane one traveling on the left curve. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Mercury Villager van with two occupants, was traveling northbound in lane one in front of V1. The traffic was slowing down on the curve. V2 had slowed when the front of V1 struck the rear of V2. Both vehicles came to rest near the impact in lane one. V1 was towed from the scene due to moderate frontal damage. V2 was driven from the scene with light back damage. None of the occupants was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.
A 76 year-old male was driving V1. He had left home and was taking himself and his daughters to gamble for the afternoon. He and his daughters were talking and he was drinking his orange juice when the crash occurred. He stated his wife was sick, but feeling better and he needed to get out of the house. His health is fair with back problems and high blood pressure and he takes Hydrochlorothiazide on a regular basis. He wears glasses to read and was not wearing them at the time of the crash. He is retired and travels this roadway two times a month to gamble. The driver stated he was traveling at a speed of 40 kmph (25 mph) at a gap of one and a half car lengths. The investigating officer estimated V1's speed to be 64 kmph (40 mph). The driver thought he had enough time to take a sip of orange juice when V2 applied the brakes.
A 40 year-old male was driving V2. He had left home and was taking himself and his wife to gamble for the afternoon. He had a cigarette in his mouth and he and his wife were talking about their grandchildren. He stated the traffic in front of him was slowing down and stopping and he was slowing down when the crash occurred. He was not aware of V1 prior to impact. He was well rested and drives this roadway two to three times a week to gamble. He stated his health is good and he takes Metformin on a regular basis to control his diabetes. He is near-sighted and was wearing his glasses at the time of the crash.