The crash occurred on a five lane, two-way primary arterial road in a business district that ran north/south with no physical divider. Lane three was left turn lane for both directions of travel with lanes one and two being southbound travel through lanes. Both sides of the roadway had multiple private driveways to retail businesses. There was a traffic light at an uninvolved intersection south or downstream of the crash that tended to back traffic up intermittently. The arterial and the immediate driveways on the west side of the road were straight and level. The speed limit was 72kph/45mph. Conditions at the time were daylight and dry with overcast skies (rain was forecast for that day) in the early afternoon on a weekday.
V1 was a 1992 Subaru Legacy AWD that was turning left (north) from lane 2 of a private drive on the west side of the arterial when as it was crossing lane 2 southbound of the arterial it (V1) was struck on the left side by the front of V2, a 2007 Ford Expedition that was traveling south in lane 2 of the arterial. V1 came to rest facing northeast straddling lanes 2 and 3 very close to impact. V2 pulled to the right shoulder and then into a parking lot on the west side of the road after the crash. Both vehicles were towed away. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1 was driven by a belted-forty-one-year-old female whose airbags did not deploy in the crash and who was unaccompanied and uninjured. She had made a wrong turn into the private business and was trying to get on the road to find the correct lot when the crash occurred. She did relate to the researcher that she was running late for her 1st chemotherapy treatment at the time.
V2 was driven by a thirty-seven-year-old-belted-female who was uninjured in the crash. Her airbags did not deploy. She said she was driving in lane 2 southbound at a low rate of speed hoping for the light to turn green up the road when all of a sudden V1 turned across in front of her from in front of a pickup. She said she only got a chance to touch her brakes briefly before impact.