The crash occurred at an intersection where the southbound lane 2 and the westbound lane 2 connect. This was an intersection of an east/westbound highway and a north/southbound roadway. The highway had four eastbound lanes including one left turn lane and five westbound lanes including two left turn lanes. The roadway had four northbound lanes including two left turn lanes and three southbound lanes including one left turn lane. All roads have right turn exit ramps prior to the intersection. Dividing the north and southbound lanes on the north side of the intersection is a one meter wide raised cement divider. Dividing the east and westbound lanes on the east side of the intersection is a three-meter wide cement divider and on the west side of the intersection is five-meter wide cement and grass divider. The road was straight and level with a posted speed of 89 kmph (55 mph) in the east/westbound directions and 56 kmph (35 mph) in the north/southbound directions. It was daylight during the early evening on a weekday with heavy commuting traffic and the skies were cloudy.
V1, a 1998 Dodge Neon 4-door sedan was driven by a 47 year-old female. She stated that she was on her way to the bank after leaving the grocery store, traveling west in lane two as she entered the intersection at a rate of (45 mph). She stated that the light was green as she crossed through the intersection, when a vehicle shot out in front of her, resulting in the front of her vehicle, V1, to crash into the left front portion of V2. The forward force of the crash with V2 caused V1 to turn counter-clock wise 90 degrees, moving south, crashing into the front of another vehicle (V3) with the front of V1, before coming to rest facing south in the southbound lane two. The driver was transported for possible injuries. When the driver's mother arrived at the crash scene, she told the researcher that her daughter had been over wrought concerning her boyfriend, and that her daughter was on her way to see him at the hospital. The mother told her daughter not to drive, that she was too upset to drive, but her daughter wouldn't listen to her, she never listens to her. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The police reported that the driver of V1 was asleep while driving although all evidence indicates that the driver was awake.
V2, a 2004 Honda Odyssey Minivan was driven by a 32 year-old female traveling with her 2 year-old daughter. The driver stated that she was on her way home after leaving a daycare center, minutes before the crash. Her daughter was in the second row seat behind hers, watching a DVD on a ceiling mounted DVD player located in the 2nd row. She had been stopped at the intersection for the duration of the light in lane two facing south. When the light turned green, she began moving forward, across the intersection, when she saw a flash of silver, followed by the collision that forced her vehicle (V2) move clock-wise 45 degrees and right, crashing left passenger section of V3 (traveling south in lane one) with the right front section of V2. The force of the collision with V3 caused V2 to spin 45 degrees counter-clock wise, before coming to rest alongside V1, facing south near the median on the west end of the intersection. Both occupants were transported for possible injuries.
V3, a 1992 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan was driven by a 50year-old male traveling with his 14 year-old daughter. The driver stated that four minutes prior to the crash, he had left home intending to visit his father. He had been stopped at the intersection, in the southbound lane one for the duration of the red light, alongside V2, prior to entering the intersection. At the green light, he proceeded to cross through the intersection, when V2 suddenly turned and came at him, crashing into the left side of his vehicle. The force of the crash caused his vehicle spin 135 degrees counter-clock wise, crashing into the front of another vehicle (V1) with the front of V3 prior to coming to rest facing northeast in the southbound lane two, nose to nose with V1 and V2. Neither occupant was injured.
There is no evidence that the traffic light was not operating properly or that there had been a large vehicle that might have obstructed the drivers views of each other (V1's and V2's view, V3's view was obstructed by V2).