This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-leg, interchange area. On the south leg of the intersection for northbound travel, the roadway is physically divided by a curbed and cement barrier and has two through lanes and one left turn lane. On the north leg of the intersection for southbound travel, the roadway is physically divided by a curbed median and has two through lanes and two left turn lanes. This roadway in both north and south directions is straight and level, with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with lunchtime traffic congestion.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Chevrolet Blazer with one occupant, was northbound in lane three, the left turn lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1992 Honda Civic with three occupants, were southbound in lane two traveling straight. The driver of V1 proceeded with the left turn and entered the intersection at the same time as V2. The driver of V2 saw V1 proceed with the turn and tried to accelerate and steer to the right to avoid the collision. V1 impacted with its front to V2's left side. Both vehicles stayed engaged for approximately 11 meters (36 feet) where V2 ran up onto the curbed sidewalk, impacting it with its right front tire and rim. V1 also continued up the curb and came to rest on its wheels facing southwest on the sidewalk. V2 continued on the sidewalk and sideswiped a pole with its right plane for approximately 8 meters (26 feet) and then re-entered the roadway as the driver steered to the left. V2 came to rest on its wheels facing southeast between lanes one and two on the south side of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed from the scene of the crash. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a forty year-old male, is a county employee and was driving from a work site to the office. He drives this route once every two weeks to check on how a project is going and this was the first time driving this vehicle. He was well rested, takes Aciphex medication on a regular basis and wears glasses for an unknown condition. He stated he was stopped for about ten seconds and thought V2 was going to turn right, onto the entrance ramp. He also stated V2's turn signal was not on and can't come up with a reason why he thought this.
The driver of V2, a twenty-eight year-old male, was driving back to work from picking up lunch at a grocery store. He was well rested, drives this roadway daily and is very familiar with this vehicle. He is in good health and takes the medications Welbutrin and Risperdal on a regular basis for his bi-polar condition. The driver also suffers from asthma, but neither condition affected his driving on this day. He stated he had "messed up" his right ear a little early in life and had a lot of ear infections, but does not need a hearing aid. The driver and two co-worker passengers were having a social conversation while driving down the road. The vehicle inspection revealed that the front tires were bald and rear tires had minimal tread depth; they were of sufficient inflation pressure.