This single-vehicle crash occurred in a four-leg intersection with no controls for east and westbound traffic. On the east leg of the intersection the roadway is straight, level and undivided with seven lanes. It has one right turn lane, two through lanes for westbound travel and three through lanes for eastbound travel. There is a center lane for both left and right turns. On the west leg of the intersection, the roadway is straight, level and physically divided by a raised curb & brick median with three through lanes and one left turn lane for eastbound travel and two through lanes for westbound travel. It was raining at the time and the road was wet. The posted speed limit is 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred in the late afternoon with moderate traffic flow.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Jeep Grand Cherokee with two occupants, was westbound in lane three, traveling straight. V1 traveled through the intersection and ran off the left side of the road on the west side of the intersection, impacting a sign on the raised center median, with its front. Vehicle dynamics suggest the driver steered hard to the right after impacting the sign and V1 started to rotate clockwise on the median and then rolled over leading with its left side. V1 rolled three-quarter turns, coming to rest on its right side, facing northwest in lane two of eastbound traffic. Both the driver and passenger left the scene before police arrival. V2 was towed from the scene with moderate top damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
The driver of V1, a twenty-two year-old male, was driving from an unknown location to the occupant's residence. The vehicle belonged to the occupant and this was the driver's first time driving it. The occupant gave little information about the driver except that she knew him in school and hadn't seen him for a while. She said that her boyfriend was following behind them in another vehicle. It is unknown if this was an exterior distraction to this driver or if their was another reason for him not maintaining his travel lane. The tires on teh vehicle were in very good working order, so there are no suspected vehicle related factors.