The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a four-lane undivided roadway at its intersection with a two-lane north-south bound roadway. There were two lanes in each direction of the main roadway and one lane in each direction of the cross street. The roadways were asphalt, straight, level and dry. The posted speed limit was 56kph (35mph). The crash occurred just before noon on a weekday under sunny, clear weather conditions while traffic flow was light.
V1, a 2000 Chevy Camaro, two-door with one occupant was eastbound in lane two. V2, a 1994 Nissan Sentra, four-door with one occupant was eastbound in lane one. As V1 was passing V2, V2 started to move to lane two. The vehicles collided in the intersection, with the front right of V1 contacting the left side of V2 (Event 1). Both vehicles then veered across the westbound lanes headed toward the northeast parallel to each other. About 20m from the initial point of impact V1's left front wheel struck and jumped the north curb (Event 2). V1 continued moving and its left rear wheel also struck and jumped the curb (Event 3). Both vehicles then traveled across a sidewalk and up a grassy embankment. They came to rest about 37m from the initial point of impact each facing east. As they came to rest the right rear of V1 struck the left rear of V2 (Event 4). They were still in contact when the researcher arrived. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the Chevy Camaro, was driven by a 22-year old male who was not injured. He advised that he had just left home on his way to work traveling 56kph (35mph). He reported that he had been eastbound in lane one behind V2 and another non-contact vehicle, which was between the two crash vehicles. Because the other two vehicles were traveling very slowly, the driver of V1 said he signaled and changed to lane two where he passed the non-contact vehicle and was in the process of passing V2. He said V2 suddenly started to turn left to the cross street from lane one and he was unable to take any avoidance actions prior to impact. He reported that after the first impact the vehicles left the road on the north side of the road.
V2, the Nissan Sentra, was driven by a 73-year old female who received possible injuries and was transported to a hospital. The driver reported that she had just had her car serviced and was returning home traveling 48kph (30mph). She advised that she rarely travels this roadway and noticed that she need to make a left turn ahead at the intersection. She said she signaled as she tried to change to lane two. She said that when she looked over her left should she saw V1 slightly behind her and that V1 struck her vehicle before she could do anything to avoid it.