The crash occurred in the intersection of an eastbound and a southbound road. The intersection was controlled by traffic signals. The roadways were both four-lane, one-way streets. They were straight, level bituminous roadways with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). It was early afternoon on a weekday and the roads were wet and the sky was cloudy. Traffic was flowing.
V1, a 2003 Saturn L-200 four-door with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane three. V2, a 1998 Chevrolet Lumina four-door with three passengers was traveling eastbound in lane three. V3, a 1993 Oldsmobile Cutlass four-door with three passengers was traveling eastbound in lane two. All vehicles were approaching the intersection. A witness behind V1 stated that the light had just turned red and that V1 went through it. The drivers of V2 and V3 stated that their light had turned green as they were approaching the intersection. There was a building on the corner of the intersection partially obstructing the view of both V1 and V2. All three vehicles entered the intersection and the front of V2 contacted the right front of V1. V1 rotated counterclockwise and V2 rotated clockwise and the two vehicles contacted each other again, right rear to left rear. V1 departed the roadway at the southeast corner of the intersection and its front struck a light pole. The front of V3 contacted the right side of V2 before they both came to final rest in the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the Saturn L-200, was driven by a 76-year old female who reported minor injuries. She advised that she had left home and was on her way to the post office. She advised that she was traveling between 50-64 kmph (31-40 mph) prior to the crash. She saw V2 at the last minute and attempted braking but could not avoid V2.
V2, the Chevrolet Lumina, was driven by a 49-year old female who reported minor injuries. She advised that she had left the Social Service office and was on her way to the mall. She advised that she had been traveling between 50-64 kmph (31-40 mph) prior to the crash. She steered right to try to avoid V1 but could not.
V3, the Oldsmobile Cutlass, was driven by a 49-year old male who reported no injuries. He advised that he had just left home and was on his way to a doctor's office. He advised that he had been traveling between 2-16 kmph (1-10 mph) prior to the crash. He attempted braking but could not avoid V2.
V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. Therefore, no Critical Pre-crash Event or Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. The only associated factor coded to the driver of V3 was the wet roadway.