This two-vehicle crash occurred at an intersection with traffic control signals. The east/west roadway is straight, level, consists of two lanes in each direction and a left turn lane and the speed limit is 64 kmph (40 mph). The intersecting roadway is straight, level, consists of three northbound lanes and the speed limit 56 kmph (35 mph). The road surfaces were dry and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash. It was evening hours on a weekday and there was moderate traffic on the roadways.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Ford Explorer with one occupant, was traveling east in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Ford F-150 Pick up with three occupants, was traveling east in lane one behind V1. At the intersection, V1 attempted to make a right turn from lane one to travel southbound (the wrong way) on the one-way roadway. The driver realized she was about to enter a one-way roadway and steered to the left to get out of the roadway and back. V1 re-entered the intersection crossing lane one of the eastbound lanes. The front of V2 struck the left side of V1. V1 rotated counterclockwise, moving to the northeast. V1 then rolled over onto its right side and came to rest at the northeast corner of the intersection, facing west. V2 rotated slightly counterclockwise after the impact and came to rest within the intersection, facing northeast. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
A 19-year old female drove V1. This driver does not take medication and is in good health. She was heading to a friend's house, driving on this roadway for the very first time.
A driver in the first vehicle in northbound lane two was interviewed. He stated that the driver of V1 was talking on her cell phone at the time she turned into lane three of the one-way roadway. The witness further stated V1 made a U-turn type maneuver to get out of the northbound lanes and back into the intersection.
A 38-year old male drove V2. He was heading home with his family from a local church. He does not take any medication and is in good heath. He drives on the roadway on a daily basis. This driver stated that he thought that V1 was making a u-turn in front of him.