The crash occurred on a fully controlled rural highway with two lanes in each direction divided by a grassy median. The straight, level bituminous roadway has a posted speed limit of 113 kmh (70 mph.) Conditions at the time of the weekend afternoon crash were daylight and heavy rain.
V1, a 1996 Chrysler Concorde LSI 4 door sedan driven by a 68 year-old male was eastbound on the road in lane one traveling 40 mph on his way to the airport to pick up his wife (3 hours ahead of schedule). The driver stated that the vehicle in front of him suddenly stopped, he braked (ABS) and swerved to the left, but the front right of v1 struck the back left corner of v2. The driver of v1 pulled his vehicle off onto the right shoulder further down the road. V1 was drivable following the crash. The fully restrained driver denied injuries at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2, a 2001 Ford Windstar Sport minivan driven by a 38 year-old female on her commute to work was eastbound on the road traveling 50 mph in front of v1. The driver of v2 stated that the Tahoe (v3) in front of her slowed to pull off of the road onto the right shoulder so she slowed down and was struck in the back by v1. The driver of v2 did not see v1 prior to impact and took no avoidance actions. V2 was pushed forward and rotated clockwise into the back of the Tahoe. The front left corner of v2 struck the back left corner of v3. V2 continued to rotate, left the road on the right hand side and came to rest down an embankment facing southwest. V2 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver denied injuries at the scene.
V3, a 1997 Chevrolet Tahoe 1500 4-door sports utility vehicle driven by a 60 year-old male was in front of v2 and decided to pull off onto the right shoulder to wait for the heavy rain to clear to improve his visibility. The driver stated that he was on the shoulder moving less than 10 mph when he was struck in the back left corner by v2. V3 rotated clockwise, left the shoulder down the grassy embankment and came to rest facing west.
Factors of 'heavy rain' and 'slick surface due to water' were coded to all three vehicles.