This crash occurred in the intersection of a 4-way intersection. Both of the involved roadways were 2-lane undivided roadways with one lane in each direction. The north/south roadway was controlled by a stop sign in each direction, while the east/west roadway was uncontrolled. Both roadways were straight, level, and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred in the early weekend morning and the roads were wet due to on and off light rainfall all morning. Traffic flow was very light.
V1, a 2005 Chevrolet Impala 4 door with one occupant, was traveling north in lane one. V2, a 1996 Ford Contour 4 door, with two occupants was traveling west in lane one. As V1 approached the intersection at or about speed limit, V1 failed to stop for the stop sign and proceeded into the intersection. At this time, V2 was traveling westbound at or about speed limit and approaching the intersection. V2 attempted to avoid the collision by braking and steering right, but was unsuccessful. The front of V1 struck the left front side of V2. V2 rotated in a clockwise direction while V1 rotated counterclockwise. The front right of V1 sideswiped the right driver's door of V2 and then struck the right rear corner. V2 left approximately 3.5 meters of skids approximately 5 meters northwest of point of impact in the intersection. V2 came to final rest at the end of the skids. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the Chevrolet Impala, was driven by a 57-year-old male who reported no injuries on scene. The driver stated that he went to go pick up something to eat and was heading back home. According to a witness, as V1 approached the intersection the witness noticed that the driver was eating and not looking at the road and ran the stop sign. V1 struck V2 in the intersection and did not have time or attempt to avoid the collision.
V2, the Ford Contour, was driven by a 22-year-old male who reported "C" injuries and was transported to a medical facility from the accident scene. The occupant, a 40-year-old female reported no injuries on scene. The driver stated that he was traveling from his home to his family's house. As the driver approached the intersection he saw V1 approaching the intersection but assumed that it was going to stop for the stop sign so he continued. However, V1 ran the stop sign and V2 attempted to avoid the accident by braking and steering right but was unsuccessful.