The 2-vehicle, weekday, early afternoon crash occurred in the southbound lane of a 2 lane, 2 way, and straight bituminous roadway. The pre-crash grade was +6% for v1 and -4% for v2. At the time of the crash it was cloudy, daylight and the roadway was dry. The posted speed limit for both vehicles was 56 kmh (35mph).
V1, a 2002 Mercury Sable solely occupied by a 62 year-old male driver, was northbound negotiating a right hand curve that went into the area of the roadway described above. V2, a Chevrolet C-7500 medium-heavy duty truck solely occupied by a 42 year-old male driver, was southbound in the roadway described above. As v1 exited the curve; it failed to straighten out and drifted left across the centerline into the southbound lane. The driver of v2 saw v1 drift into his lane and came to a controlled stop as far to the right side of his lane as he could (there was no shoulder) and blew his horn. V1, front, contacted v2, front, in the southbound lane. V1 came to rest at the point of impact facing north in the southbound lane. V2 came to rest at the point of impact facing south in the southbound lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of v1 stated that he was northbound in lane 1 going about 30mph commuting from 1 part-time job to another. He was on time and not in a hurry on a familiar roadway. He does not remember anything about the crash and must have blacked out. The doctors think that he suffered a blood clot/brain aneurism, which caused him to lose consciousness before the crash.
The driver of v2 stated that he southbound at about 25 mph when he saw v1 come around the curve at 25-30mph and then drift across the centerline right at him. He works for the city and was driving a “bucket truck” used for trimming trees. He was returning to the office/yard to end his workday when he saw v1 approaching. He brought the truck to a complete stop in the southbound lane and blew his horn hoping to get the driver's attention. He said that the driver of v1 looked like he was asleep. He was stopped when v1 hit the front of his truck. A possible factor for v1 was that there wasn't a shoulder on that portion of the road for him to use to get out of the way.