The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a two-way, ten-lane interstate roadway, which was divided by a concrete traffic barrier. There were five southbound lanes, with a posted speed of 105 kmph (65 mph). This was a straight, level, asphalt roadway. Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon with wet roads and cloudy skies. Traffic flow was normal, with periods of congestion.
V1, a 1999 Honda Civic with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane two. V2, a 2006 Chevrolet Corvette convertible with two occupants, was traveling southbound in lane one, behind V1. Traffic in lane two, which was somewhat congested, was moving much slower than in lane one. As V1 attempted to change lanes to the right, the back of V1 made contact with the front of V2. After impact, V1 veered toward the right shoulder. The front of V1 then made contact with a guardrail. V1 and V2 came to final rest on the emergency shoulder. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.
The Honda Civic was driven by an 18-year old female, who was transported to the hospital due to injury. She stated that she was on her way to her mother's house to do laundry. The driver said that she was in lane two, when she decided that she needed to change lanes because her exit was coming up. The motorist indicated that she activated her turn signal and then proceeded to change lanes. According to the driver, she completed the lane change, and then was hit from behind.
The Chevy Corvette was driven by a 38-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he and his wife were on their way home from a weekend trip visiting family. According to the driver, traffic in all lanes was congested approaching an exit ramp. However, immediately following the exit, his lane opened up, while traffic in all other lanes remained congested. The driver began to accelerate. He advised that the other motorist changed lanes in front of him, apparently unaware of his presence. the driver said that he took an evasive action by steering to the right, and appling his brakes, but could not avoid the other vehicle.