This crash occurred on a level bituminous four lane positively divided roadway in the northbound lanes. The posted speed limit was 64KMPH (40MPH). The roadway was straight and dry. The weather was clear. This crash occurred on a weekday morning. Traffic flow was normal for that time of day.
Vehicle #1, a 2003 Ford pick-up truck, was traveling north on the roadway when it impacted with the rear of Vehicle #2, a 2001 Dodge pick-up truck, with its front. This, in turn, caused Vehicle #2 to impact the rear of Vehicle #3, a 1995 Toyota pick-up truck, in the rear with its front. All vehicles came to final rest in their original lane-facing north. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
Vehicle #1, the Ford F150 pick-up, was driven by a belted 22-year-old female who refused to be interviewed. It should be noted here that this driver is a part time police officer. There was a belted 24-year-old male who gave a partial interview before the driver stopped him. He stated the driver had been looking at him and could not stop in time to avoid collision with the stopped truck in front of them. Neither driver nor passengers were injured. Both front airbags deployed. This vehicle was towed due to damage.
Vehicle #2, The Dodge Dakota pick-up truck, was driven by a belted 60-year-old male who was not injured. This driver stated the vehicle in front of him had stopped fast but he was able to stop his own vehicle in time. This driver was not injured and his vehicle was not towed.
Vehicle #3, the Toyota pick-up truck, was driven by a belted 31-year-old male who was not injured. There was a belted 60-year-old female who was transported to an area hospital, treated and released. This driver stated a tractor-trailer in front of him blew through the yellow light and he had to stop quickly. He stated that the vehicles in his lane were all "bunched together". This vehicle was no towed.
Police did not consider alcohol or illegal drugs to be a factor in this crash and ordered no tests.