A one-vehicle daytime rollover collision occurred on a six-lane two-way city street. There were two southbound lanes, three northbound lanes and a center left turn lane. In the area of the crash, the right northbound shoulder and side of the street has an area of vegetation and a drive through mailbox drop for a post office. The main road is paved with asphalt and is straight and level. The speed limit for the road is 56 kmph (35 mph). At the time of the crash the sky was cloudy and the road was wet from previous rain with no current precipitation.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Ford Econoline Van with only a driver, was heading north in lane three. V1 was changing into lane two when a non-collision vehicle also began to change into lane two from lane one. To avoid the non-collision vehicle V1 applied the brakes and steered to the right. The driver's foot then slipped off the brake and pressed on the gas as V1 departed the roadway, it impacted a small tree and a road sign, continued north straddling a curb. V1 then impacted a pole with its front left corner causing the vehicle to start a lateral roll to the right. V1 then continued on it's right two wheels until it impacted a curb fully tripping the vehicle over. Based on the distance traveled before the curb impact, approximately 21.5-meters (70-feet), it was reasoned that the vehicle did not tilt at greater than a 45 degree angle prior to the curb impact; therefore, it was concluded that the rollover initiation was caused by the curb impact. V1 came to rest on its right side facing north. V1 was towed due to disabling damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
The driver of V1 was a 47-year-old male who reported no injuries from the crash stated that he was cut off by a non-contact vehicle and tried to avoid the collision by braking and steering towards the the right. V1's driver stated that his foot had slipped off the brake and hit the gas but by the time he realized it he had already lost control and didn't think to reapply the brakes.