This two-vehicle crash occurred on a 6-lane non-divided asphalt road with a painted center left turn lane. This roadway runs east to west with business driveways on both sides. At the area of this crash the road changes from down hill to up hill grade. There are no traffic controls and the posted speed is 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during the late morning hours with cloudy skies and intermittent rain. This roadway is well maintained with no obvious defects.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Nissan Frontier quad cab pickup, was exiting a business driveway turning left when it pulled into the eastbound lane and was impacted on the left front fender by Vehicle two (V2). V1 rotated slightly clockwise then backed into the driveway that it had just exited. A 78 year-old male driver stated that as he was pulling from the business he saw vehicle two (V2) coming towards him in the outside lane. He decided to pull out thinking he could clear the #1 lane safely and turn left. He claims to be in good health, is retired and got 8 hours sleep the night before and felt good just before this crash. He does not suffer from any vision problems and was very comfortable with his vehicle. He stated that as he pulled out, V2 changed lanes into the #2 lane and that's what had caused the crash. He stated that had the driver of V2 stayed in the #1 lane that this crash would not have occurred. The driver of V1 was not injured and V1 was not towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.
V2, a 2000 Hyndai Elantra sedan, was eastbound in the #1 lane when the driver saw V1 begin to exit the driveway and into his lane. This driver stated that V1 began to enter the roadway then stopped for a couple of seconds. This driver stated that he then changed lanes to the #2 lane to avoid V1, but still impacted V1 as it crossed into his lane. The 26 year-old male driver of V2 claims to be in good health and had gotten 8 hours sleep. He felt good before the crash with no illness that would affect his driving. He drives this road daily and was comfortable with his vehicle. This driver was not injured and his vehicle was towed for disabling damage to the front end.