The three-vehicle crash occurred on a divided, east/west trafficway. The westbound lanes are straight, level, dry and consist of five through lanes. The posted speed limit is 97 kmph (60 mph). Traffic was heavy at the time of the crash. This crash occurred during daylight afternoon hours with clear skies.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Lexus RX300, was westbound in the first travel lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Cadillac CTS, was westbound ahead of V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 2005 Honda Civic, was westbound ahead of V2. V3 came to a stop in the lane for heavy traffic ahead. V2 was decelerating, with the intention of coming to a stop behind V3. The front of V1 struck the back of V2. V2 was pushed forward and the front of V2 struck the back of V3. All three vehicles came to rest in the first lane of travel facing west. Both V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a fifty-year-old male, was heading from his children's day care to his wife's office. This driver had been driving for about twenty minutes, drives the route daily and drives the vehicle monthly. The driver stated he was looking for his exit and did not see V2's brake lights. When he noticed that V2 was stopping, he applied his brakes in an attempt to avoid the crash.
The driver of V2, a twenty three year old female, was heading from home to dinner. This driver had been driving for about five minutes, drives the route daily and is familiar with the vehicle. This driver stated she was coming to a stop behind V3 when she saw V1 approaching fast. She made no evasive maneuvers. The driver stated she was talking to her husband on the cell phone at the time of the crash.
The driver of V3, a forty four year old male, is a courier in route from one pick-up/drop-off to another. This driver had been driving for about twenty minutes, drives the route daily and is familiar with the vehicle. The driver stated he was listening to the radio at the time of the crash.