This crash occurred in the westbound lanes of a two-lane one-way undivided roadway. It was the afternoon hours of a weekday the bituminous roadway was dry, straight, and had an uphill grade. There were no traffic control devices for vehicles traveling west on this roadway. The posted speed limit was 40kmph (25mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash and traffic flow was normal.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Honda Civic was traveling west in lane one. It is uncertain if the driver was intending to make a left at the intersection, or whether he was planning to continue straight through. Vehicle two (V2), a 2007 Chrysler Sebring, was heading west in lane two next to V1, intending to continue straight through the intersection. The front left side of V1 contacted the right front side of V2. The impact caused V2 to deflect counter clockwise approximately 45 degrees before striking a tree. V2 came to final rest against the tree off to the left side of the roadway. V1 deflected off to the right side of the roadway and came to a controlled stop. V1 was driven from the scene, while V2 had to be towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a 23 year-old male, did not suffer any injuries as a result of the crash and required no medical attention. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. After numerous attempts, an interview with the driver of this vehicle could not be obtained. For this reason it is uncertain whether any fatigue or health related factors contributed to this crash.
The driver of V2, a 55 year-old female, suffered unknown injuries as a result of the crash and was taken to a medical facility for treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A complete interview was obtained from the driver of this vehicle. She relayed that she was driving in lane two intending to continue through the intersection. She knew there was another vehicle next to her, but she did not notice that it had attempted to move into her lane. She claimed that she was very familiar with her surroundings as well as the vehicle itself. The driver also stated that she was not fatigued when she began driving this leg of the trip and that she was in good health.