The crash occurred at an intersection of a north/south roadway and an east/west roadway that terminated at the intersection in the westbound direction. The left turn lane in the southbound direction led to the eastbound lane two, forming an island bordered by the eastbound lane one. In the southbound direction, there were two southbound lanes, including one left turn lane and one northbound lane. Dividing the north and southbound lanes was a double yellow line. The southbound direction was a level right curving roadway. There were two other roadways terminating at this intersection. The adjacent northbound roadway bordered vacant land on the east side, with the main northbound roadway bordering the property on the west side of the land, creating a large triangle of property. The property was mostly grass with trees and bushes along the east side of the property. The skies were clear and the road was dry on this early evening weekday. The posted speed was 56 kmph (35 mph).
V1, a 1996 Ford Explorer SUV, was driven by a 27 year-old pregnant female traveling with four children ages 2 to 6 years old. The driver was traveling south in lane one, involved in a police pursuit. V1 entered the intersection at a high rate of speed against the red light, colliding with V2 before crossing over the left lane line across the northbound lane, then off the left side of the road onto vacant property. V1 traveled south an additional 61.5 meters before coming to rest against some bushes. The husband of the driver stated that she had just picked up the children and was taking her son to get a hair cut when she began to experience severe cramping. When she looked in her rearview mirror, she noticed a police car behind her with its lights on; she panicked. Attempting to lose the patrol car, she began to speed through the intersection. She had told her husband that the light had just turned yellow. The driver braked when she saw V2 coming into her path from the left. V2 was on the westbound roadway attempting a left turn onto the southbound roadway. V2 entered the intersection on a green light after being stopped. The front left of V1 struck the right front of V2 in the southbound lane. V1 continued south into a field before coming to rest against some bushes. Only the son in the front seat wore a seat belt. All occupants were transported, several for injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The police video revealed the speed of V1 entering the intersection to be 97 kmph (60 mph) and that the brake lights and downward action of V1's front end indicate the driver of V1 attempted to avoid a collision with V2. The police reported that V1 had false tags and that the driver was unlicensed. The driver was arrested.
V2, a 2000 Toyota Camry 2-door coupe, was driven by a 34 year-old female traveling with her 7 month-old daughter. The daughter was properly secured and seated in the second row behind the passenger seat. The driver stated that she had left her mother in law's home 40 minutes prior to the crash on her way home. She had been stopped at the red light in the left turn lane facing west. When the light turned green she began to travel across the northbound lane, at a low rate of speed, when she saw V1 run the red light, heading into her path. The driver of V2 braked in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid a collision. The front of V2 entered the southbound lane into the path of V1 and the left front of V1 collided with the right front side of V2. The collision caused V2 to rotate counterclockwise about 135 degrees where it came to rest facing east on the island between the eastbound lanes. Both occupants were transported for minor injuries.
A witness stated that V1 was traveling south at a high rate of speed in lane one with police in pursuit. Three vehicles stopped at the red light blocked the entrance to the intersection. V1 crossed over the double yellow lines into the northbound lane, passing the other vehicles before entering the intersection. The witness saw V2 enter the intersection from a westbound road and begin to turn left; upon entering the intersection the driver of V2 suddenly stopped her car. V1 continued into the intersection, striking the right front portion of V2 with the front left portion of V1 causing V2 to spin counterclockwise about 180 degrees. V1 continued to travel south, coming to rest against some bushes and a tree in a vacant lot. The witness didn't think V2 could see V1 until after entering the intersection; the three vehicles stopped at the red light could have blocked the line-of-sight to V1 for the driver of V2.