The crash occurred in the intersection of two undivided two-lane roadways with one lane in each direction of each roadway. The main roadway ran east/westbound. It was asphalt, dry and straight with a precrash slope of 2% for eastbound traffic and -2% for westbound traffic. The intersection itself was level. Approximately 53m east of impact there was a crest in the roadway grade with a 2% slope east of the crest. The posted speed limit was 72 kmph (45 mph). There were no traffic controls. The crash occurred on a weekend morning while traffic was light under clear sunny skies.
V1, a 1984 Ford Club Wagon van with one occupant was making a left turn from eastbound lane one to northbound lane one. V2, a 2002 Chevy Silverado pickup truck with two occupants was westbound in lane one. Without previously stopping, V1 turned across the path of V2. V2 braked without lockup in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid impact. The front of V1 struck the front of V2. Impact caused V1 to rotate in a counterclockwise direction it came to rest facing west in westbound lane one approximately 10m west of impact. V2 continued traveling westbound after impact and came to rest facing west off the right side of the roadway straddling a drainage ditch, approximately 12m west of impact. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the Ford Club Wagon, was driven by a 47-year old male who received non-incapacitating injuries and was transported to a hospital. The driver reported that he had been traveling from home to a relative's home and that he decelerated but did not stop prior to beginning a left turn. He added that prior to turning he looked and did not see any vehicle approaching. He also stated that the crest in the road east of the intersection blocked his view of oncoming traffic, so he never saw V2 prior to impact and thus took no evasive actions. The driver also stated that his girlfriend was following in the vehicle behind him and that he glanced at her in his rear view mirror just prior to turning.
V2, the Chevy Silverado, was driven by a 68-year old female who was coded for incapacitating injuries. Her 75-year old male passenger was coded for incapacitating injuries. Both occupants were transported to a hospital. The driver reported that she was traveling 72 kmph (45 mph) while transporting her passenger to the hospital due to illness. She told the researcher she never saw V1 prior to impact, but stated that she did brake without lockup because her passenger told her the other vehicle was not going to stop. The driver also claimed that the roadway grade blocked her precrash view of V1.