The crash occurred in lane three of a five-lane northbound highway including the temporary lane one exit ramp access on the right. Shoulders on both sides with a grass median and guardrails dividing the four southbound lanes bordered the northbound highway. This was a straight, level, dry bituminous road with a posted speed of 89 kmph (55 mph). The sky was clear but dark during the late evening hours on a weekday.
V1, a 2003 Oldsmobile Alero four-door sedan was driven by a 23 year-old female traveling with her 21 year-old fiancé. The fiancé stated that he and the driver had been drinking at a bar to celebrate his release from rehab and were driving home when they got in a crash. The fiancé thought that they had left the bar ten minutes prior to the crash and had consumed ten beers each. He remembered the driver speeding northbound in lane four chasing another vehicle that might have cut them off previously. The driver of V1 spotted the other vehicle in one of the right lanes and veered right trying to catch the other vehicle when V1 crashed into the back right portion of V2 with the front left portion of V1. The force of the crash lifted the right rear portion of V2 on top of the left front corner of V1, causing V2 to veer off to the left 20 degrees and only broke away from V1 after the rear bumper of V2 came loose. Attempting to flee the scene, V1 continued moving across the right lanes exiting the highway at the first off ramp 300 meters north of the crash site. After exiting the highway, V1 continued traveling to the end of the off ramp, turning left onto a two lane undivided road and sideswiping a guardrail bordering the right side of the road before coming to rest 560 meters from the crash site facing north in lane one. V1 had to be towed due to damages incurred from the crash with V2. The driver of V1 fled the scene and the fiancé attempted to hide amongst the grasses on the right side of the road. The police could not find the driver but once they found and questioned the fiancé he was released. The researcher drove the fiancé home hoping to locate the driver but she had already been home, taken the dog and her fiancé's truck and departed. The fiancé was happy to be interviewed although he had a large knot on the top left side of his head, probably from the windshield (he was looking to the right), towards the direction of the other vehicle, when the crash occurred. He stated that he was unaware if the driver had taken her medication for bi-polar disease that day, as he just got out of rehab after 28 days. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
EDR data revealed that V1 was traveling at a rate of 159 kmph (99 mph) at the time of the crash and neither occupant were wearing their seat belt. Air bags did not deploy.
V2, a 1995 Volvo 850 four-door sedan was driven by a 60 year-old female. She stated that she had left her sister's home fifteen minutes prior to the crash on her way home. She had been traveling north in lane three at a rate of 72 kmph (45 mph) when the crash occurred. She had seen vehicles in all four lanes approaching from the rear, using the rearview mirror, but was totally unaware of anything unusual until her vehicle was struck and she was no longer in control of her vehicle. The force of the crash lifted the rear of her vehicle, forcing V2 to veer left, before V2 broke free of V1. V2 continued left across lane four, the left shoulder and the grass median, dragging it's rear bumper, before coming to rest facing northwest after striking the guardrail with the front left corner of V1. Air bags did not deploy. The driver was uninjured.
A witness stated that minutes prior to the crash V1 had been aggressively following her vehicle, flipping her off and trying to force her off the road. She was on her cell phone with the police, alerting them of the situation, as she continued her attempt to distance herself from V1. Moments prior to V1 crashing into V2, she had changed lanes to the right, traveling at a rate of 72 kmph (85 mph) when the occupants of V1 both spotted her vehicle in lane one. At that moment, she saw V1 veer right from lane four into lane three attempting to reach her vehicle. She doubts that either occupant of V1 were aware that V2 existed until the crash. After the crash she told police the direction V1 fled.