This crash occurred just after noon on a weekday in the middle of an urban intersection. The intersection consisted of a two-lane north/south roadway (with trolley tracks running down the center) intersected by a two-lane east/west roadway and controlled by traffic signals. The intersection was controlled by eight traffic lights, two on each of the four corners; the red signals for the east/west roadway were out. The green and yellow signals for these lights were functioning properly, as well as all of the other traffic lights (only the red lights for east and west traffic failed to light). Both roadways were bituminous, dry, straight, and level and featured posted speed limits of 48 kmph (30 mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.
V1, a 1992 Buick Park Avenue with one occupant, was westbound in lane one approaching the intersection. As V1 approached the intersection it slowed down because the traffic signal was not lit. V1 came to a stop and then proceeded through the intersection. As V1 traveled through the intersection, a southbound trolley struck the right side of V1. The impact caused V1 to rotate clockwise until it came to final rest in a crosswalk near the southeast corner of the intersection. V1 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
The driver of V1, a 78-year-old female was taken directly from the crash site to an emergency room for treatment of a laceration to her forehead. At the hospital, she advised that she was on her way home from her local grocery store. She stated that when she approached the intersection, she first noticed that her traffic light was not lit. Correctly assuming that her lights were not functioning properly, she proceeded with caution and surveyed the intersection. She saw the trolley approaching from her right, but believed she had plenty of time to proceed through the intersection. She than proceeded into the intersection and was struck on the right side by the trolley.
The operator of the trolley was present at the crash scene and stated that he had the green light and was not aware that the red light for V1 was not functioning properly. He explained that he proceeded down the street and as he was entering the intersection V1 entered the intersection and, according to the trolley driver, V1, "hit me." The trolley operator's supervisor arrived shortly after the crash and stated that the operator was not allowed to comment on the details of the crash, and promptly ended the interview.