This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged intersection. The north/south roadway is straight, level, undivided and consists of one lane in each direction with a left turn lane at the intersection. The speed limit for this roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph). The east/west roadway is undivided, straight and consists of one lane in each direction. Both approaches have a downhill grade and are controlled by stop signs at the intersection. The speed limit for this roadway is 40 kmph (25 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Nissan Sentra, was southbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Ford Focus, was stopped westbound in lane one. Vehicle three (V3), a 2006 Jeep Commander, was stopped eastbound in lane one. V2 entered the intersection and the right side was struck by the front of V1. V2 rotated clockwise and the left side struck the front of V3. V1 and V2 towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a thirty-two-year-old male, was on his way home from work. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that he saw V2 entering the intersection and applied the brakes (skidding longitudinally) in an attempt to avoid the crash.
The driver of V2, a sixteen-year-old male, was traveling with a fifteen-year-old male and a fifteen-year-old female. They had been at the mall and were on their way to a friend's house. This driver was healthy, well rested and stated that he was comfortable with his passengers. He had nine months of driving experience and had completed a driver education course thirty days prior to the time of the crash. He travels this route monthly. This driver stated that he was looking for a break in traffic to cross the intersection. He further stated that he saw V1 but thought he had enough time to clear the intersection. He accelerated in an attempt to avoid the crash.
The driver of V3, a thirty-seven-year-old female, and her eight-year-old son had just picked up the son's eight-year-old friend and were on their way to batting practice. This driver was well rested, healthy and comfortable with her vehicle and passengers. She travels this route daily.