The crash occurred in the middle of a four-way intersection. On the west side of the intersection, there were four eastbound lanes with lane four being a left turn-only lane. On the other side of the raised curb median, there were three westbound lanes. On the east side of the intersection, it was the exact same number and configuration of lanes. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph). The intersection was controlled by traffic lights. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekend night. Traffic flow was normal. The roadway was straight and level.
V1 was a 2004 Hyundai Tiburon 2-door coupe that was traveling eastbound in lane four. The driver was attempting to make a left hand turn onto the northbound roadway. As the driver started to make a left turn, she was hit on the right rear side, sending her vehicle spinning clockwise. V1 came to final rest in the northbound lanes facing south. V2 was a 1994 Chrysler LHS 4-door sedan that was traveling westbound in lane two. The driver was traveling straight through the intersection when V1 turned left in front of him. V2 had right front-end damage. No one was injured and V1 was towed due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.
V1 was driven by a 41-year-old female who was traveling eastbound making a left turn. The driver stated in her interview that she was on her way to visit her boyfriend at work and drives the roadway daily. The driver stated that she had a green light and V2 ran a red light. The driver stated that she didn't see V2 until he hit her and it was too late. Her vehicle was hit on the right rear side panel causing her vehicle to spin clockwise, coming to final rest facing south. The driver was not cited for the crash as there were no witnesses and both drivers' stories conflicted.
.
V2 was driven by a 47-year-old male who was on his way home from work. The driver stated that he was heading westbound in lane two and had a green light. As he entered the intersection, V1 just turned in front of him. He stated that he tried to brake and steer to the left but was not successful in avoiding the crash. V2 was cited for no proof of insurance.