This two-vehicle crash occurred in the northbound lane of the roadway several hundred feet before the approaching intersection. The roadway consisted of seven lanes: three southbound with a left turning lane and three northbound lanes. These lanes were non-physically divided. Only a wide painted center median separated the two-directional lanes. There were no signalized traffic control devices at this middle of the block location. The road surface was bituminous, dry and straight and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (30 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during the mid afternoon daylight hours. The roadway was free of any defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.
Vehicle one, 2000 Toyota Rav4 compact utility vehicle, was traveling southbound in lane three and entered the eastbound turning lane attempting to enter the parking lot of a strip mall. Vehicle one contacted with its front the left side of vehicle two, a 2004 Dodge Caravan minivan, traveling northbound the opposite direction. Vehicle one, after the initial contact with vehicle one, rotated counter clockwise traveled several feet where it came to final rest facing eastward. Vehicle two, after the initial impact rotated slightly clockwise a few feet where it came to final rest facing northward. The damages to both vehicles were disabling: vehicle one was towed directly from the scene, while vehicle two was towed later. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
The driver of vehicle one, a 49-year old female, said she was traveling southbound in lane three when she decided to stop at the store in the strip mall located to her left. The turn lane is normally used for vehicles turning eastbound at the intersection and not before. She said she proceeded with her turn and contacted vehicle two traveling northbound in the lane nearest the curb. The vehicle in lane two stopped and waved her on. She didn't see vehicle two until the last minute and by then, it was too late. She said, she assumed all the vehicles traveling north would slow up or stop and allow her to proceed. She's been a licensed driver for over 31-years and travels on this roadway daily.. She was transported to the hospital with complaints of pain.
The driver of vehicle two, 27-year old female, said she was traveling northbound in the lane nearest the curb when the other driver cut in front of her vehicle and they collided with one another. She said she'd just left work and she feels okay. She travels on this roadway.