The crash occurred at the intersection of two roadways. The north/south roadway was a two-way, seven-lane street, divided by a concrete curbed median. The east/west roadway was a two-way undivided street, with two lanes on the west side of the intersection and four lanes on the east side of the intersection. These were straight, level, asphalt roads, controlled by a traffic light. The posted speed for north/south traffic was 72 kmph (45 mph). Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.
V1, a 2001 Mitsubishi Mirage with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane two. V2, a 2007 Ford Focus with three occupants, was also traveling northbound in lane two, ahead of V1. V1 contacted something that damaged both left tires and rims. As both vehicles were approaching the same intersection. The front of V1 made contact with the back of V2. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.
V1, the Mitsubishi Mirage, was driven by a 47-year old female, who was not injured. She stated that she was on her lunch break, and was heading to a nearby bakery to buy some bread. The driver recalled using a cell phone before the crash, but did not know whether or not she was on it when the crash happened. The driver did not remember any other details of the crash, due to the shock of the incident.
V2, the Ford Focus, was driven by an 18-year old female, who was not injured. She stated that she had just gotten out of class, and was on her way to a restaurant with some friends. As she approached the intersection, she began to slow down for the red light. The driver said she was still rolling when the light turned green, so she began to slowly accelerate into the intersection. About the time the driver got to the far side of the intersection, she was hit from behind. The motorist indicated that she never saw the other vehicle coming. It was her belief that the other driver was distracted, and when she saw the green light she may not have realized that the light had just turned green, with traffic in front of her just beginning to move.