The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of an interstate highway. There were five lanes with emergency paved shoulder on the left hand side as well as a concrete median wall. On the right hand side of the roadway was an off ramp that connected to another roadway. On the right side of the roadway was a grassy uphill embankment of more than a 2% grade and there was a guardrail that separated the highway from the exit ramp. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekend night at dusk. The roadway was straight and level. The posted speed was 105 KPH (65 mph).
V1 was a 2003 Chevy Trailblazer that was traveling northbound in lane three. V2 was a 2002 Dodge Caravan that was traveling northbound in lane four. Both vehicles were going the speed-limt when there was a vehicle up ahead that apparently blew a tire and lost control. The driver of V1 panicked when he saw the vehicle ahead lose control and steered into the left lane hitting the right side of V2. V1 then pushed V2 into the left concrete barrier wall. After this impact V1 lost control and veered across four lanes of traffic and left the right side of the roadway until he hit the right side guardrail which caused his vehicle to rollover to the left side and make four quarter turns until he made final rest upright facing a northeast direction. Both vehicles were towed due to damages and no one was injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.
A 33 year-old male who was on his way home from work drove V1. The driver was not licensed and was driving relatives SUV. The driver was in lane three when he stated in the interview that he saw a vehicle ahead in his lane lose control. The vehicle was fishtailing and smoking. He stated that he got nervous and jerked the wheel to the left into lane four. He then hit the left side of V2. The driver had a fake international license that was not valid. He was cited for the crash for improper lane change and not having a driver's license. He was not injured but his vehicle was towed due to damages.
A 23-year-old male who was on his way home from work drove V2. His wife and 2 children picked him up from work and they were in lane four on there way home. They were traveling northbound when V1 suddenly veered into his lane. The driver of V2 didn't want to hit the left concrete wall so he tried to hit the brakes. V1 continued to push him off the roadway until he lost control and hit the left side concrete wall. No one was injured but the Van was towed due to damages. The driver stated in the interview that the reason V1 veered into his lane was because there was a vehicle up, ahead that had blown a tire and lost control. He thinks the driver panicked and steered into his lane to avoid hitting that vehicle. The driver stated that the vehicle that had blown a tire was way up ahead and there was enough time to slow down without having to swerve into his lane. This driver was not thought to have contributed to the crash. There were no associative factors related to this driver.