The crash occurred in lane two of a 4-lane eastbound parkway at an intersection with a north/south roadway. The road was straight and level with four lanes in each direction, divided by wooded land. The posted speed was 56 kmph (35 mph). This was a bituminous, wet roadway - it was raining and the sky was cloudy. It was late afternoon on a weekday. The traffic was heavy on this well-traveled roadway during this commuting period.
V1, a 1995 Chevrolet Beretta 2-door coupe, was driven by a 44 year-old male. The driver stated that he had left work 15 minutes prior to the crash on his way home traveling east in lane two when he began to feel "funny." He continued driving at a rate of 56 kmph (35 mph), when he noticed the light at the intersection turn yellow. The vehicle immediately in front of him (V2) came to a stop as did the one in front of that (V3). The driver did not immediately apply his brakes due to the beginning of a seizure. When he was able to react, he braked but it was too late. The front right of V1 struck the rear of V2 and pushed V2 into V3. The driver stated that he hadn't taken his medication for seizures and that might explain the reason he had felt "funny" prior to the accident. The driver was not injured nor was he transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2 was a Chrysler Sebring 4-door sedan driven by a 44 year-old male. The driver stated that he had left work 40 minutes prior to the crash on his way home. He had been stopped behind V3 for 2 seconds when he heard skidding. He did not see the source of the skidding, which lasted about 1 second, prior to the impact. The driver was transported due to injuries.
V3 was a 2007 Chevrolet Tahoe 4-door SUV driven by a 32 year-old female. She stated that she had left home fifteen minutes prior to the crash on her way to pick-up her son at school. She stated that she was stopped for a few seconds at the red light in lane two. She heard screeching and a bang and then her vehicle lurched forward from the impact of V2 striking the rear of V3. She did not notice V1 or V2 prior to the impact. V3 received little damage and the driver was not injured.
A witness stated that she was in her vehicle, stopped in lane one, next to V3. She tracked the approach of V1, using her side mirror. She saw the driver of V1 with his head reclined back as if he was asleep. V1 was approaching V2 at a speed of about 56 to 64 kmph (35 to 40 mph). Approximately 50 feet from the intersection, the driver's head lifted, as if he suddenly awoke, and attempted to stop. The witness did not see brake lights, but heard the tires skid on the wet pavement prior to the collision.
No Critical Pre-Crash Event and no Critical Reason were coded for V3 because V3 was not involved in first harmful event. Associated factors coded to V3 were the wet roadway and the weather (rain).