The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a high occupancy, high volume, and high-speed interstate highway. There were five southbound lanes with both right and left side paved emergency shoulders. There were concrete wall barriers separating the southbound lanes from northbound traffic. The roadway came to a split about 250 feet ahead of where the crash occurred. The road widths were a standard 3.7 meters and the emergency-paved shoulders were 3.5 meters. The road was straight and level. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekday evening. The roadway was illuminated by streetlamps. The posted speed limit was 105 KMPH (65 MPH).
V1 was a 1992 Acura Integra 2-door hatchback that was traveling southbound in lane three. The driver had just gotten out of work and was commuting home. The driver stated that he was driving along when an unknown white sedan hit his vehicle from behind, making him lose control and swerve into lane two where he hit the left front of V2. V2 was a 1998 Mercedes Benz C280 4-door sedan that was traveling southbound in lane two. After the impact with V2, V1 rotated clockwise and continued off the roadway to the right onto the grassy shoulder. V1 came to final rest facing in a northeast direction. No one was injured and V1 and V2 were towed due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.
V1 was driven by an 18-year-old male who stated that he was struck by a white hit and run vehicle that continued without stopping. The story was not believable as there was no damage to V1's back as well as no white paint transfer. The driver of V2 did not see any white vehicle flee the scene. The driver of V2 stated that V1 was speeding and was unable to maintain control of his vehicle, which then caused the crash. The driver of V1 denied speeding and stuck to the story of a hit and run that caused the initial impact. The driver was cited for the crash, as the police on scene did not believe his account of the crash.
V2 was driven by a 43-year-old male who was on his way home from work. He stated that he was traveling south in lane two when he felt a smack on the left front of his car. He stated that V1 was speeding and after the impact, V1 still had a lot of speed as it then rotated clockwise off the roadway to the right onto the grassy embankment. The driver of V2 was not thought to have contributed to the crash but did confirm that there was no white vehicle that caused the crash.