The crash occurred on the westbound lanes of a five-lane east/westbound roadway divided by a grass median. There were three lanes in each direction. Lane three of each direction was a left turn only lane. The asphalt roadway was straight, dry and level with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The area of the crash was within a construction zone, marked by barrels and cones, where the westbound road was being widened and a new intersecting street was being positioned to the north. The new lane and street were not yet paved but consisted of loose dirt and curbs had been placed at the intersection. The crash happened early on a weekend evening while traffic was light.
V1, a 1997 Honda Accord four door with two occupants was traveling westbound in lane one. The vehicle crossed over the left lane line into lane two and then began to yaw in a clockwise rotation out of control back to the right. The vehicle went off the right side of the roadway onto the dirt where it straightened out and traveled about 70m to the northwest. V1's wheels and undercarriage then struck the curb (Event 1) knocking out a 2m wide section of curb. After striking the curb, the vehicle went airborne while continuing traveling another 70m northwest. An unknown part of V1 struck three small trees (Event 2) while in the air. Then, due to the engine weight, the vehicle began to nose down into an end over end roll down to the bottom of a ditch. The vehicle landed on its top (Event 3) facing west straddling a concrete retaining wall at the base of the ditch, approximately 2.5m below the road level. The final resting place was approximately 170m west of where V1 departed the roadway and 40m north of the reference line. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
V1, the Honda Accord, was driven by an 18-year old male. Both occupants were coded for possible injury but neither was transported to a hospital. The driver reported that he was traveling from a friend's home to his home and he admitted traveling about 125 kmph (85mph) while going straight after exiting a previous curve to the left (radius of curvature 850m). He also admitted that he had been drag racing with an unknown vehicle that was in lane two. He stated that he felt himself losing control he braked and then his vehicle spun sideways in a counter-clockwise direction. He added that he was still out of control when his vehicle went off the right side of the road onto the dirt and struck the concrete curb and flipped over and went airborne. He landed upside down in the ditch on the right side of the road.