The crash occurred in the eastbound lane of a six-lane two way undivided roadway. There were three eastbound lanes and two westbound lanes. The posted speed limit for the roadway was 56 kmph (35 mph). The surface type for the roadway was bituminous asphalt. The roadway was dry, straight, and level. Weather conditions were mainly sunny. The crash took place during the early afternoon hours of a weekday.
V2, a 1993 Geo Prism, was traveling eastbound, in lane two of the roadway. V2 was in the process of making a right hand turn into a driveway when it was struck by V1, a 2004 International Harvester Transportation Bus. V1 struck the right side of V2 with its front-end. V1 suffered nominal damage and was driven away from the scene. V2 suffered moderate damages and was towed from the scene. All parties involved did not sustain any injuries. V1 is a bus whose special use is to transport the public. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.
The driver of V1, a 40 year-old female said she was traveling in the right hand lane (lane one) when she looked up and noticed the other vehicle (V1) making a right turn. At this point, she slammed her brakes, but it was too late. The driver also attempted to steer right to avoid the other vehicle. The driver has been driving a bus for 10 years and relates she has gone through professional training. She admits to not seeing V2 until she looked up and it was right in front of her vehicle. She sleeps approximately 8-9 hours a night and was well rested.
The driver of V2, a 20 year-old female, said she was traveling eastbound on the roadway when she decided to make a right into a driveway leading to a fast food store when her vehicle was struck on the right side by the front of V1, a city transit bus. The driver had just left her mother's house and was stopping to get something to eat before going back to work. She's very familiar with this roadway. She lives nearby and travels on it daily. She was not conversing or listening to the radio, as it is broken. Her health is good and she's not ill or taking any medications.