This two-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of a four-way intersection. There was one each north/southbound lanes intersecting by one each east/westbound lanes. In the center of the east/westbound lanes were metal trolley tracks planted in cement. All of the lanes were non-physically divided: only yellow double lines divided the lanes. The north/southbound lane movement through the intersection was controlled by standard curbside stop signs. The east/westbound lane movements through the intersection were not controlled. The bituminous covered roadways were dry, level, and straight and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit for all directions was 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during the early afternoon daylight hours. The roadway was free of any noticeable defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.
Vehicle one, a 1999 Dodge Intrepid 4-door sedan, was traveling westbound through the four-way intersection when it contacted with its front the left side of vehicle two, a 2003 Mazda Protégé 4-door sedan, traveling southbound through the same intersection. After the initial impact with V2, V1 traveled several feet forward and rotated slightly counter-clockwise where it came to final rest facing westward. V2, after the initial impact with V1, traveled several feet and rotated clockwise ninety-degrees where it came to final rest facing westward. The damages to both vehicles were severe and both were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
The driver of vehicle one, a 63-year old male and only occupant, said he was traveling westbound destined for home after leaving the hospital for his routine doctor visit and had driven approximately 1-mile before the crash occurred. His travel speed was about 30 mph, he knew he didn't have a stop sign at the upcoming intersection so he proceeded through it: the stop sign was for the north/southbound directions. As he approached the middle of the intersection, the other vehicle, V2, ran right through the stop sign and his vehicle hit it on the left side. He said, he saw the vehicle approaching the intersection and thought it was going to stop. He's been a licensed driver for 46-years and obeys all of the traffic laws, he offered. He was not injured.
The driver of vehicle two, a 24-year old female and only occupant, said she was traveling southbound approaching the intersection and saw the stop sign at the intersection and realized she had to stop before entering, she stopped for approximately 3-4 seconds. She didn't see any vehicles coming from either direction east or west. However, 'there was a car sort of blocking her total view, when she got in the center of the intersection, V1 hit her vehicle on the left side and he was going really fast'. After further questioning, she explained, she had 'a lot of things going on in her life that keeps her mind preoccupied, but she's handling it'. She was transported to the hospital with non-life threatening injuries.