This single-vehicle crash occurred on an entrance ramp to a state highway in an interchange area. The roadway prior was straight, level and divided with two through lanes and one right turn lane. This crash happened during daylight hours with moderate traffic with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). There was no signage warning of the ramp curve or advisory speed reduction sign posted. There should have been an advisory speed of 40 kmph (25 mph) posted for the ramp curve based on the radius of curvature and superelevation measurements taken.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Pontiac Grand Am two-door, with one occupant was entering the entrance ramp from northbound to eastbound. The ramp was curved to the right and the driver was traveling 97 kmph (60 mph). V1 went in the clockwise rotation, departed the left side of the ramp and impacted a curb with the left rear wheel. The wheel eventually became detached from the axle as the vehicle continued in the slide and impacted a plastic delineator with the left side of V1. As V1 was still in the clockwise rotation, it impacted a sign with its left side at the driver's door and started to roll into its left side. V1 rolled two quarter turns to the left and slid to rest on its top facing south on the roadside. V1 was towed from the scene with moderate damage to the top. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1.
The driver of V1, a thirty-one-year-old male, was driving from a friends house to his residence. He stated he was in a hurry because he was late for a date with his girlfriend. He drives this roadway daily. He stated he slept two hours the night before and usually sleeps three to four hours a night and always feels rested. He worked 53 hours in the previous seven days. Fatigue was considered a factor for this driver. He takes no medication and does not need to wear glasses. The driver's original statement was that he was traveling at the posted speed limit when the left rear tire blew out, but that was later discounted based on the inspection of the tire and the vehicle dynamics & physical evidence. The driver travels the roadway daily so he is aware of the speed needed to successfully negotiate the ramp.