The crash occurred on a two-way, straight, level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 72 kph (45 mph). The three-lane road had a left turn only center lane. Conditions at the time of the weekday evening crash were daylight, clear, and dry.
V1 was a 2001 Ford Windstar minivan driven by a 60 year old female on her way home from a stressful day in court with her 15 year-old grandson (front right passenger). The driver stated that she was traveling eastbound at approximately 25 mph when she glanced down (for an unknown reason). When the driver looked up, the truck (v2) was stopped in the lane ahead. The driver stated that she braked (full ABS application), but the front of v1 struck the back of v2. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver and passenger refused treatment at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2, a 2004 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 Z71 4x4 pick-up truck was driven by a 29 year-old male, who was tired and on his way home from work to let out his dog. The driver stated that he stopped in backed up traffic three feet behind the car (v3) in front of him. The driver looked in his rear view mirror and saw v1 approaching too fast to stop. The driver of v2 kept his foot on the brake. Following the impact to the back of his truck, v2 was pushed forward into v3. The front of v2 struck the back of v3. V2 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver refused treatment at the scene.
V3, a 1999 Ford Escort SE 4 door sedan, was driven by a 26 year-old female on her way home from work. The driver stated that she was in stop and go traffic backed up from a stop light a quarter mile ahead. She stated that she had just taken her foot off of the brake and was rolling forward when she was struck in the back by v2. The driver never saw v2 prior to the impact and took no avoidance maneuvers.
There was no Critical Precrash Event or Critical Reason coded to v2. Associated factors coded for the driver of v3 were 'only driving for 4 years', and 'drivers education taken in native country.'
A contributing factor of 'rush hour traffic congestion' was coded for all three drivers. An associated factor coded for all three drivers was 'unfamiliarity with road-the driver of v1 rarely drives that route and v2, v3 drivers only drive it several times per month.'