The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a 4-lane highway divided by a grass median with a positive barrier (guardrail). There were four lanes northbound and four lanes southbound. This was a straight, bituminous, level highway with a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). It was the early evening on a weekend and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was moderate.
V1, a 1995 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan with 3 occupants, was traveling north on the right shoulder. V2, a 2006 Kia Sorrento utility vehicle with two occupants, was traveling north in lane four. V1 suddenly began to accelerate and then swerved across all four northbound lanes in an attempt to make a U-turn onto an access road on the other side of the highway. As V1 crossed into the fourth northbound lane, it was struck on the left rear side by the front of V2. V1 then rotated about 170 degrees off the road and onto the median on the left. V2 also rotated about 45 degrees counterclockwise and came to final rest in the median facing west. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the 1995 Toyota Camry, was driven by a 16-year old female who was airlifted to a trauma center, as was one of her passengers. Many attempts to get in contact with driver were unsuccessful. One occupant had provided a statement explaining that the driver was picking up things for the prom. She had missed her exit and wanted to make a U-turn on the "authorized vehicles only" road, which was a turn-around for law enforcement only.
Witness 1 stated that he saw V1 make a hard left turn from lane 1. He said it almost looked like as if she was trying to make a U-turn. He also stated that it looked like things were flying out of her window as if the backlight had been blown out.
Witness 2 said that she was a few car lengths behind V1 when she saw it make a hard left turn all the way onto the left side of traffic. She then saw it being struck by V2 and spin around and land on the median.
V2, the 2006 Kia Sorrento, was driven by a 24-year old male who reported no injuries. He stated that he was driving in the far left lane (Lane 4) when he saw V1 speeding up on the shoulder and swerve hard from the shoulder over into his lane. He said he slammed on his brakes but he was unable to avoid her. He says the airbag deployed and he tried to get back control of his vehicle as it skidded out of control.