This crash occurred mid week in the early evening. The weather was clear and sunny. The crash occurred in lane one of a three lane southbound interstate. There was an entrance ramp prior to where the crash happened. The lanes were straight, level, asphalt. The roadway was dry. The speed was posted at 113 kmph (70 mph). The crash occurred under a railroad overpass. The roadway was shaded.
As Vehicle 3 (V3) a 1984 Chevrolet Corvette slowed in lane one Vehicle 2 (V2) a 1993 Chevrolet Lumina came up behind V3 and decelerated in lane one. Then as Vehicle 1 (V1) a 1997 Ford Econoline Van merged onto the interstate the driver did not see V2 and V3 under the railroad overpass traveling at a decelerated speed. V1 then contacted V2 in the rear of the vehicle. The front of V2 contacted V3 in its rear V3 traveled 175m to final rest. V2 rotated clockwise and was contacted again on the right side by V1. V1 slid off onto the right shoulder contacting the west wall at the side of the interstate coming to final rest on the shoulder. V2 came to final rest in lane one facing northwest. The driver of V1 and her occupants were transported to a local trauma unit. The driver of V2 was transported to a local trauma unit. And the driver of V3 and the occupant was transported to a local trauma unit. All vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1 was driven by a 52-year-old female that states she is in good health and taking no medications at this time. She stated she has had prior heart problems but is taking no medications. She wears corrective lenses for reading only. She stated that she had just left from picking up her daughter and grandsons and was on her way home. They had driven about 7 miles before the crash. As she was merging onto the interstate all of a sudden there were two vehicles that stopped in front of her. She did not have time to brake or steer to either side, she hit the red vehicle (V2) and it hit the yellow vehicle (V3). Then V2 spun around and she hit it again. Then she hit the wall on the right side. She hit the wall again and came to final rest on the right shoulder. V2 came to final rest in lane one where she hit it the second time. V3 looked like it was trying to leave because it traveled a long distance down the roadway before it stopped in lane one. She was not injured from the crash but her daughter was 7 months pregnant. She stated her two grandsons were found to have no injuries.
V2 was driven by a 36-year-old female that stated to be in good health and taking no medications at this time. She stated she does not wear corrective lenses. She was traveling south in lane one of the interstate. A yellow vehicle (V3) came down the entrance ramp and she could not move over to lane two because there was a van next to her and a vehicle in front of her. She accelerated a little to move ahead and V3 came in behind her and then moved into lane two. The occupant of V3 was yelling out the window at her and giving her obscene jester's. She stated the vehicle then pulled ahead of her and moved over into lane one. The driver of V3 decelerated to about 48 kmph (30 mph). The occupant was hanging out the passenger side of the vehicle yelling and telling her to pull off the interstate. She took out her cell phone and dialed 911 and that is all she remembers. She stated she does not remember being hit.
V3 was driven by a 41-year-old male that stated he is in good health. He stated he was having problems with his vehicle, he thought it was running out of gas or something. He was trying to move from lane two to lane one. He said his passenger was hanging out the passenger side window waving at people to let them over to get off the interstate. He told her to get back in if they were hit she would be hurt. They were hit and he felt the impact and was disoriented. The vehicle just coasted along until it stopped. He stated he was not injured in the crash but his passenger was injured due to the crash.
The witness stated that he was traveling south in lane one as he came to the interchange he saw a yellow Vet (V3) and a red Lumina (V2) merging onto the southbound lane. He moved over to lane two as he did V2 moved into lane one, V3 went out and around V2 with the passenger hanging out the window to her waist. V3 got in front of V2 and decelerated. He passed both V2 and V3 and slowed to watch V2 and V3 in his mirrors. The next thing he saw was a van (V1) coming onto the interstate. V1 had nowhere to go because of all the other vehicles changing lanes trying to keep from hitting the two vehicles (V2 and V3) that were traveling at about 40 kmph (25 mph). V1 hit the rear of V2 and V2 hit V3. He stayed in front of V3 so it could not get away. He stayed there until it stopped then he ran back to the other two vehicles (V1 and V2) to help the drivers.