This three-vehicle rear end crash occurred on a two way, three lane dry asphalt roadway. There is one westbound and one eastbound. There is an eastbound right turn lane into a mobile home park. The speed limit on the roadway is posted 64 kmph (40 mph). The traffic at the time of the crash mid-afternoon was congested. The weather at the time of the crash was cloudy but did not contribute to this crash.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Ford Explorer with one occupant. V1 was traveling westbound to the rear of vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Dodge Stratus 4 door with one occupant. The front of V1 struck the rear of V2, which was stopped to the rear of vehicle three (V3). V3 was a 2006 Honda Accord 4 door with two occupants. The impact forced V2 forward striking the rear of V3. V3 was stopped to make a left turn into the mobile home park. V1 came to rest in the westbound lane facing west. V2 came to rest in the westbound lane facing in a westerly direction. V3 was able to come to a controlled stop off the north edge of the roadway. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. V3 was driven from the scene. There no injuries reported at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a 33 year old female, could not be located for an interview. She told police that she could not stop in time before striking the rear of V2.
A twenty two (22) year old male drove V2. He said that he was traveling westbound and began to slow down when he saw V3 stopped ahead of him with the left turn blinker. He said that he was stopped for about 1-2 seconds behind V3 before he was hit from behind. He said that he went forward and struck the rear of V3. The driver is in good health and takes no medication. The driver had left his place of employment approximately 5 minutes before the crash and was on his way to pick up his wife and child.
A seventy seven (77) year old female drove V3. She said that she was stopped for more than 10 seconds before she was hit from behind. She said that she had her turn blinker on and was waiting for traffic to clear to turn left. She said that she never saw the other car before the crash. The driver was on her way home from the store and had been driving for about 4-5 minutes before the crash.
An associated factor for the vehicles involved was the congested traffic at the time of the crash.