This crash occurred in the early afternoon of a weekday in the middle of an intersection between two roads. The intersection consisted of an east/west four-lane roadway and a northbound four-lane roadway controlled by a properly functioning traffic signal. Both roadways were bituminous, dry, straight, and level with posted speed limits of 56 kmph (35 mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.
V1, a 1989 Chevrolet S-10 with one occupant, was eastbound in lane two. V2, a 2007 Pontiac G6 with one occupant, was northbound in lane four. V3, the 2000 Pontiac Grand-Am with one occupant, was northbound in lane three. V2 and V3 were stopped at the red light waiting for the signal to change. When the light turned green V2 started to accelerate but quickly stopped when the driver saw V1 rapidly approaching the intersection. The avoidance action did not work and front of V1 contacted the left of V2. This pushed the right of V2 into the left of V3. All vehicles came to final rest in the intersection. All three vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a 37-year-old male, suffered non-incapacitating injuries and was transported to a local trauma facility for treatment. He advised that he had just left home and was on his way to a cell phone store to pick-up a charger for his phone. He advised that he had been traveling between 50-64 kmph (31-40 mph) prior to the crash. He stated that he never saw the other vehicle until impact and so he did not attempt any avoidance actions. He thought that he had the green light.
The driver of V2, a 56-year-old male, suffered minor injuries and did not require transport. He advised that he had just left his work and was on his way to one of their other stores. He advised that he had been stopped at the red light prior to the crash. He proceeded and then stopped in the intersection.
The driver of V3, a 29-year-old male, was uninjured in the crash. He advised that he had just left home and was on his way to work. He advised that he had also been stopped at the light for more than ten seconds. He then proceeded after the light turned green and was traveling between18-32 kmph (11-20 mph) prior to being struck. He stated that he never saw V1 coming, so he did not take any avoidance actions.