The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a high occupancy, high volume, and high-speed interstate highway. There were six lanes northbound lanes with both right and left side paved emergency shoulders. There were concrete wall barriers separating the northbound lanes from southbound traffic. The road widths were a standard 3.7 meters and the emergency-paved shoulders were 3.5 meters. The road was straight and level. The conditions were cloudy with heavy rain on a weekend afternoon. The posted speed was 105 KMPH (65 MPH).
V1 was an unknown vehicle that hit the back of V2, a 2004 Honda Accord 2-door coupe, which was traveling northbound in lane four. V2 was hit from behind causing the driver to lose control and rotate counterclockwise. The right rear of V2 struck the left side of V3, a 2007 Ford Expedition utility vehicle, that was traveling northbound in lane two. The driver of V3 then braked and V2 rotated in front of V3. The front right of V3 struck the left rear of V2. V2 continued rotating and as V3 passed V2, the back of V2 scraped the right side of V3. Both cars pulled off the highway and V1, an unknown white vehicle, fled from the scene. Both V2 and V3 were traveling under the speed limit due to the heavy rain and the limited visibility. No one was injured and V2 was towed due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is 129 kmph for V1 and 129 kmph for V2.
An unknown witness stopped and told the police on scene that a white vehicle cut into V2's lane and hit its back, causing V2 to lose control and hit V3. V1 then continued without stopping and no further information was obtained regarding the driver or the type of vehicle.
A 20-year-old female drove V2. She was on her way to her part-time job as she was a full-time college student. The driver stated that she was driving slowly due to the heavy rain and all of a sudden just got hit from behind, causing her to lose control. The driver stated that she spun around and hit V3 with her back, causing damage to V3's left side. The driver was not sure what happened or the sequence of events that led up to the crash or after the crash began. V2 was towed due to damages but the driver was not injured.
A 46-year-old male drove V3. The driver stated that he and his wife were on their way home from the mall and on their way to a friend's birthday party. The driver stated that he rarely drives that particular highway and usually takes back roads. He also stated that he was driving under the speed limit as the rain was very heavy and visibility was low. The driver stated that he was driving along and just got hit on the left side causing his vehicle to lose control and start to fishtail. The driver stated that he had no idea how but all of a sudden V2 was in front of him and he struck V2 with his front right. The driver's wife complained of neck pain from the impact. V3 was not towed due to damages and both the driver and his wife declined EMS treatment.
No Critical Pre-crash Event and no Critical Reason were coded for V3 because it was not involved in the first harmful event. Associated factors coded to this driver include conversation with the passenger, unfamiliarity with the roadway, the slowed traffic due to the heavy rain, the wet roadway, and the weather.