The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. One went north and south and was straight with a level grade. One went east and west with a downhill grade and a 2% radius of curve to the right. Both roadways were five-lane, two-way, bituminous roadways with a posted speed 56 kmph (35 mph). It was early afternoon on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic was flowing.
V1, a 2004 Chevrolet Trailblazer four door with one occupant was traveling eastbound in lane two. V2 a 1994 Chevrolet G-series van with two occupants was traveling southbound in lane one. The driver of V1 stated that he looked at the light and it was green. He started dialing his cell phone and when he looked back up the light had turned red. He stated that he did not have time to stop. The driver of V2 stated that he was talking on the phone when V1 entered the intersection. He stated that he did not see V1 until impact. The front of V2 contacted the left of V1 both vehicles then rotated and the right of V2 contacted the left of V1 before they both came to final rest in the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 was a 53-year old male who reported injuries and was treated on scene. He advised that he had just dropped off his friend and was on his way home. He was getting ready to call his wife on his cell phone. The light was green so he looked for her number on his phone. He was going to go straight through the intersection. He looked back up at the light as he was going through and he saw the light was red. It was too late, he was already in the intersection. There was nothing he could do. He stated that he was traveling between 50-64 kmph (31-40 mph) when he struck V2.
The driver of V2 was a 25-year old male who reported injuries and was transported to a local trauma facility. He advised that he had just left his home and was on his way to the hospital. He was talking on his cell phone as he was driving down the street. He advised that he had been traveling between 50-64 kmph (31-40 mph) prior to being struck by V1. He stated that he did not see V1 prior to impact and therefore had no time to attempt any avoidance actions.