The crash occurred on an undivided 4-lane roadway at an intersection controlled by on-color traffic signals. There were two eastbound lanes and two westbound lanes. This was a straight, asphalt roadway with an uphill grade in the eastbound direction and a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). It was late morning on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear.
V1, a 1997 Oldsmobile Cutlass four door sedan with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane two. V1 was approaching the intersection intending to go straight. V2, a 1992 GMC pick-up with two occupants, was traveling westbound in lane two. V2 was approaching the intersection intending to turn left. The driver of V1 stated that she proceeded through the intersection and as she reached the middle, V2 initiated the left turn. V2 stated that she had been stopped at the red light and when it turned green she started to turn. She stated that she saw V1 approaching the intersection but thought that V1 was going to turn left at the light. The driver of V1 stated that she did not have time to react. The driver of V2 stated that she applied the brakes but could not avoid V1. The left front of V1 contacted the left front of V2. V2 then rotated left and the left of V1 contacted the left of V2 before they both came to final rest on the east leg of the intersection. A witness who had been traveling behind V1 reported that V1 was second in line at the intersection. A non-contact vehicle in front of V1 had stopped to make a left at the intersection and V1 stopped behind it. After the non-contact vehicle turned, V1 proceeded forward. As V1 reached the middle of the intersection, V2 turned in front of V1. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 was a 38-year old female. She reported no injuries and refused treatment. She advised that she had just left her house and was on her way to her girlfriend's house. She stated that she had been traveling between 50-64 kmph (31-40 mph) when she was struck by V2.
The driver V2 was a 35-year old female. She reported minor injuries and was treated on scene. She stated that she and the passenger had just left their house and were on their way to a social function. She stated that she was stopped at the light for more than ten seconds before she initiated the turn. She stated that she was traveling 18-32 kmph (11-20 mph) while turning.