The crash occurred at the curbed entrance/exit of a condo-style housing complex to a two-lane east/westbound roadway. The roadway and entrance were asphalt, straight and dry. The roadway was level. The parking a lot and entrance of the complex had a 4 percent slope downhill to the south. On either side of the curbed entrance there was landscaping consisting of grass and trees. At the far east end of the east/west roadway there was a north/southbound two-lane roadway that led to a northbound paved residential driveway. There were no traffic control devices. The speed limit was 48kmph/30mph but it was not posted. The crash occurred early on a weekend afternoon under clear skies with very light traffic flow.
V1, a 1998 Ford Taurus four door with one occupant, was southbound approaching the entrance and veered to the left where it jumped the curb and struck with the front end and knocked down a small tree (<10cm) (Event 1). It then continued traveling southbound and struck a circular brick planter (Event 2) with its undercarriage. After that the vehicle continued southbound between two other trees. It jumped the north curb of the east/westbound road and crossed the road where it careened off the south curb and began traveling eastbound. The vehicle continued traveling in an arc toward the northeast across a stretch of grass east of the driveway. The vehicle's front right struck a tree (35cm) and bounced backward coming to rest facing north. Over all, the vehicle had traveled approximately 90 meters from where it first jumped the curb until it struck the second tree. It was towed due to damage Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
V1, the Ford Taurus, was driven by an 82-year old female who received incapacitating injuries and was transported to a hospital. Through a surrogate, the driver reported that she had just left a friend's apartment and had backed out of the parking slot and shifted to drive. The driver claimed that the vehicle began making loud strange noises and that she could not control it. She did not know her travel speed. The driver said that she tried steering to bring the vehicle under control and that she did not think she applied her brakes, but she was uncertain about that. She recalled not having control of the vehicle and feared that she was going to hurt someone else. She saw the large tree and aimed the vehicle at it in order to bring it to a stop, thus indicating that she did have some control.