This two-vehicle crash occurred at a four-way intersection controlled overhead lights on colors with pedestrian lights. The roadway north of the intersection has one lane north and two lanes south. The roadway south is a curving three lanes north, and one lane south divided by a raised concrete divider. There are three westbound lanes; a left turn lane, a raised concrete divider, and three eastbound lanes east of the intersection. There are three westbound lanes, a raised divider, three eastbound lanes and left turn lane west of the intersection. The posted speed limit for all roadways is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during hours of daylight, the weather was clear with no adverse atmospheric conditions. The roadways are constructed of bituminous asphalt.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Toyota 4-Runner 4x4 with three occupants was eastbound in the number four, left turn lane approaching the intersection on a green light, and attempted to make a left turn across the path of vehicle two (V2). V2, a 2007 Chevrolet Tahoe SUV with three occupants, was westbound in the number three lane of the westbound roadway traveling at 48 kmph (30 mph). The driver of V1 entered the intersection and made a left turn with no avoidance efforts. The driver of V2 braked without lock-up and impacted with the right side of V1. V1 rotated clockwise rapidly and a secondary impact occurred. V2 continued forward and clockwise until it came to rest against a traffic signal pole on the northwest corner. V1 came to final rest approximately 2.5 meters (8 feet) east of vehicle two facing generally north. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a twenty one (21) year old female, who stated she and two occupants, all residents of Mexico, had been shopping and were going back to Mexico. She stated she had a green light, was turning left and did not see V1 coming until the crash. She stated she has been here many times and was familiar with the roadway. She stated she was in good health, did not require glasses and had taken no medications. The interview was obtained on-scene through an interpreter. She stated all occupants were conversing at the time of the crash. but did not see the approaching V2. She pulled forward and impacted with V1. The impact spun her around clockwise and she stopped. Occupants two and three were slightly injured and treated on scene. No one was transported. She said they had driven about three minutes at the time of the crash. This driver was in good health, had slept seven hours the night before in her residence in Mexico. She stated she started driving at age twenty and did have a valid Mexican driver's license.
The driver of V2, a forty seven (47) year old male, had just left his place of employment one and one half blocks away and was going to a local golf course. He saw V1 approaching as he entered the intersection on a green light and assumed the driver would yield the right of way. V1 attempted to make a left turn in front of him. He steered straight and braked without lock-up. The front of V2 impacted with the right side of V1 and caused V1 to rotate rapidly clockwise. A secondary impact occurred and both vehicles came to a stop in the northwest corner of the intersection. V2 came to rest with the front against a metal traffic signal pole. The driver of V2 stated he was in good health, was wearing glasses, had taken no medications and slept 7.5 hours the night before. The driver stated his view of V1 was not obscured.