This three-vehicle crash occurred at an urban four-legged, signal-controlled intersection with pedestrian crosswalks and raised curbs present in all direction. Northbound approach consists of three lanes; two straight lanes and a dedicated left turn lane. It is straight with a +3.4% uphill grade. Southbound approach consists of three lanes; two straight lanes and a dedicated left turn lane. It is straight with a -2.1% downhill grade. Setting was evening rush hour on a weekday. Conditions were daylight with clear skies.
Vehicle 1 is a 1998 Pontiac Grand Prix, four-door, full-size with one occupant traveling northbound in lane two. Vehicle 2 is a 2005 Toyota Sienna, minivan with two occupants traveling southbound in lane three, the left turn lane. Vehicle 3 is a 1997 Lincoln Town Car, four-door, largest with two occupants traveling southbound in lane three, directly behind V2. V2 was in the intersection with the intention of turning left. When V2's overhead light changed to amber, it proceeded to make its left turn. V2 was then struck on its right side, front plane by the front end of V1 (event 1). V1 in order to beat the light, accelerated into the intersection where the crash occurred. After impact, V1 traveled 22.5 meters (74 feet) and came to final rest in its original travel lane. V2 after impact, rotated counterclockwise and contacted the front-end of V3 with its front-end (event 2). V2 came to final rest facing north 8.2 meters (27 feet) north of event 1. V3 came to rest at the point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1 and 80 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1 is a 21 year-old male construction worker who works 40 hours per week. He reported being injured, but was not transported. He was on his way home from work about 20 minutes away. He was hungry and went through the drive-through window at Wendy's. He pulled out of Wendy's into travel lane two. He noticed the light change from green to yellow, so he accelerated to 72 kph (45 mph). He wanted to "catch the light." He then saw V2 pull into his path from the opposing direction. Since he was accelerating, he had no time to make any avoidance maneuvers. He hit V2 head-on at an angle. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.
The driver of V2 is a 50 year-old female who was not injured in the crash. She had her 10 year-old son in the back seat and they were on their way to pick up her daughter from dance school. She was in the left turn lane "inching" into the intersection because her light had just changed to yellow. She noticed a car stopped in the opposing direction lane one, so she looked down lane two and saw nobody coming, so she started to accelerate and turn left. A split second after starting her turn, "V1 came out of nowhere, and struck her head-on." After impact, her car spun counterclockwise and struck the front of V3. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.
The driver of V3 was a 53 year-old male who was not injured. He had just picked his daughter up from school and was going to stop by his attorney's office before heading home. He was driving behind V2 in the left turn lane. He saw V2 inching forward into the intersection, and he also saw V1 traveling in northbound lane two. He was talking to his daughter about how an accident might happen right in front of them. He said that V2 had a yellow light at the time of impact. After V1 and V2 collided, as he predicted they would, V2 spun around and very lightly struck his front left corner causing minimal damage. His vehicle was driven from the scene.