This two-vehicle crash occurred in a three-legged intersection. The east/west roadway is straight, level and consists of two lanes in each direction and a center two-way left-turn lane. The north/south roadway is straight, level and consists of one lane in the southbound direction and two lanes in the northbound direction. The speed limit for this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Geo Metro, had turned right (from a roadway west of the crash site) to travel eastbound and changed lanes to the left. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Sterling cement truck, was westbound in lane one. V1 turned left in the intersection and the right side was struck by the front of V2. V1 rotated clockwise while traveling to the northwest and the left side struck a boulder off the northwest corner of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 29 kmph for V1 and 29 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a seventy-nine-year-old male, was on his way home from a friend's house. He was well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that his illnesses consist of "old age and the problems that come with it." He takes the medications Risperdal, Potassium, Pepcid, Crestor, Lasix, Univasc, Aldactone, Isosorbide Mononitrate, Flomax, Paxil, aspirin, garlic, vitamins and Glucosamine/Chondroitin. This driver stated that the sun was in his eyes when he began traveling eastbound and he did not see V2 prior to the crash.
The driver of V2, a forty-seven-year-old male, was on his way from the company yard and was on his way to a job site with three cubic yards of concrete. He was well rested, healthy and travels this route daily. This driver had ten years of experience driving this class of vehicle and stated that he felt comfortable with his vehicle and the cargo. He further stated that he was watching a bicycle that turned left in front of him just prior to V1 and did not see V1 until just prior to the crash.