This two vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of a two-lane roadway and a five-lane roadway. The east/west road is straight and level and controlled by stop signs. The north/south road is straight and level with no traffic controls. The posted speed limit for both roadways is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Chevrolet Malibu four door with one occupant, was westbound in the number one lane of the two-lane roadway approaching the stop sign and stopped. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Ford F150 Quad Cab pickup with three occupants, was northbound in the number one lane of the northbound roadway traveling at 56 kmph (35 mph). V1 stopped for the stop sign and entered the intersection while attempting to make a left turn. V2 made no avoidance efforts. The front of V1 struck the right side of V2 on the right front wheel and continued toward the rear. The vehicles separated, V2 continued forward and steered into a private parking lot and stopped. V1 stopped near the point of impact after rotating clockwise. The driver then drove the vehicle backward and stopped near the east curb line. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a seventy three (73) year old female, was very confused about what happened. She first stated she had been somewhere, could not remember where but knew that she was going to make a left turn. She stated that she stopped for the stop sign, looked and did not see any cars. She started forward and was struck by a truck. She then remembered she had been in the café on the corner, had purchased two sandwiches and thought she was going home. The driver did not know how long she had been driving at the time of the crash. This driver was in good health, had prescription glasses that were not worn at the time of the crash. This driver stated she slept for eight hours the night before in her residence. She stated that she was familiar with the roadway. She stated that she was taking three medications daily; Monoxin, Zertec and multiple vitamins.
The driver of V2, a thirty eight (38) year old female, had just left a fast food franchise less than two blocks south of the crash site and was going home. Her two teenage children were in the vehicle with her. This driver had been driving for about two minutes at the time of the crash. This driver was in good general health, had not taken any prescription medications, did not wear glasses and slept for seven and one half hours the night before. The driver stated her view of vehicle one was not obscured. She stated she saw Vehicle one about 30 meters (100 feet) south of the intersection and could see it was not going to stop for the stop sign. She shouted at her children that the vehicle was going to hit her and then it did. She did not have time to make any avoidance efforts prior to the impact. The driver then drove into a driveway of a private parking lot and stopped facing southwest.