The crash occurred on a narrow hilly undivided two-lane east/west rural roadway with one lane in each direction. There were no traffic controls or shoulders on either side of the road. The dry, asphalt road was straight with an 8 percent downhill slope for eastbound traffic and changed from straight to a very short curve to the left (138m radius of curvature) with an 8 percent slope uphill for westbound traffic. There was no super-elevation. The posted speed limit was 48kmph/30mph. The crash occurred early on a weekend evening under clear skies with light traffic flow. The area of the crash was very dark and not lighted. There were crests with limited vision in both directions from the crash scene.
V1, a 1996 Saturn SL2 four-door with two occupants, was traveling westbound. V2, a 1995 Ford Escort two-door with one occupant was traveling eastbound. V1 crossed the center double yellow lane marker into the path of V2, which steered to the right in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid impact. The left front of V1 sideswiped the left of V2 along the entire length of V2, dislodging the left rear wheel from its axle and causing V2 to rotate rapidly in a counter-clockwise direction (Event 1). The rear of V2 veered off the right side of the road and struck a 30cm utility pole with the back left (Event 2). V2 spun around on the grass along the south edge of the road while it continued traveling eastward. V2 came to rest facing southwest on the grass on the south edge of the road approximately 22m east of the first impact. After the first impact V1 continued traveling westward until it went off the road on the left side approximately 31m west of the first impact. It yawed and rotated in a counterclockwise direction across the grass roadside and its rear right struck a large tree 9m south of the road and 35m west of the first impact (Event 3). It deflected off the tree and came to rest facing north within a meter of the tree. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the Saturn SL2, was driven by a 31-year old male. Neither he nor his passenger was injured. At the scene the driver reported that he was traveling at the speed limit while returning to his nearby home. He added he was blinded by the glare of V2's headlights as he topped the crest in the road east of the impact point. He said he thought V2 was on the wrong side of the road and was going to strike him. The driver added that he braked with lockup and that he was unable to avoid being struck by V2. He claimed that impact was on his side of the road. This was not true based on evidence at the scene. Several witnesses at the scene after the crash told the researcher that they had seen both occupants of V1 throwing what appeared to be drugs away from the vehicle after they exited it in what appeared to be an attempt to dispose of them before police arrived.
V2, the Ford Escort, was driven by a 33-year old male who was coded for incapacitating injuries and transported to a hospital before researcher arrival. Later the driver reported that he had just left his grandmother's home and was traveling at the speed limit on his way to work. He added that as he came over the crest in the road west of the impact point, he was blinded by V1's headlights. He said he tried to steer right while braking without lockup in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid impact, which he thought was on his side of the road.