This two-vehicle crash occurred in a three-way, signal-controlled intersection. On the north side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a curbed median and the southbound traffic lanes consisted of a right-turn lane and two through lanes. On the west side of the intersection, the roadway is undivided with three lanes. Eastbound travel lanes consisted of one left-turn lane and one right-turn lane. This roadway was straight, uphill and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with weekend traffic volume.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Lincoln Mark LT with only the driver present, was southbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Mitsubishi Lancer with only the driver present, was stopped at the intersection facing eastbound in lane two with the intention of turning left. V2 received a green light and proceeded into the intersection. V1 also proceeded through the intersection. The front of V1 contacted the left side of V2. The impact caused V1 to rotate counterclockwise before coming to rest facing southeast in the intersection. After impact, V2 was pushed in a southeast direction before coming to rest facing southeast on a raised median. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The driver of V2 was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a thirty-eight-year-old female, was driving from work to her home. She stated she entered the intersection right as the light had turned red and saw the other driver start to merge into the intersection. She thought that he had seen her and was not going to proceed. She reported getting four hours of sleep the night before, worked 12-hour days for six days and had work and family concerns. She is familiar with the route and vehicle. She attempted no evasive maneuvers. She had a sinus infection but was not taking any medication. She works out for an hour approximately five days a week.
The driver of V2, a fifty-two-year-old male, was driving from home and on his way to the fitness center. This driver was rested, drives this route daily and is very familiar with this vehicle. This drives states being in good health but did take an unspecified decongestant medication the night before the crash. The driver was hospitalized and does not remember too much about the crash.