This two-vehicle crash occurred on a trafficway that is divided by a wide grass median. The northbound lanes are curved to the left (the radius of curvature is 563 meters and the superelevation is two percent), have a downhill grade and consist of two through lanes with paved shoulders on both sides. The speed limit on this roadway is 113 kmph (70 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours and it was raining.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Toyota Tundra pickup, was northbound in lane one. This vehicle was towing a trailer carrying an all-terrain-vehicle (ATV) and there was another ATV in the bed of the pickup. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Toyota Avalon, was northbound in lane two. V1 changed lanes to the left and was behind V2. V2 decelerated due to a vehicle in front of it that had lost control. The front of V1 struck the back of V2. The ATV in the pickup bed of V1 shifted forward and struck the back of the cab. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1 and 80 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a fifty-nine-year-old male, was traveling from a hunting trip in another state to his brother's house in a different state. He was well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He rarely travels this route. This driver had been driving for approximately four-and-a-half hours at the time of the crash. He has heart problems (unknown if he takes any medication for this condition) and has sleep apnea (no treatment for this condition). This driver stated that he changed lanes but then applied the brakes when he realized that V2 was decelerating for the out-of-control vehicle. He was not able to stop soon enough and steered to the right in a last-minute attempt to avoid the crash.
The driver of V2, a fifty-three-year-old female, was traveling from her home to another city. She was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle. She drives on this roadway daily. This driver stated that she was focused on slowing down to avoid the vehicle in front of her and did not see V1 before the crash.