This two-vehicle crash occurred on a four-leg, traffic signal controlled intersection. On the east side of the intersection, the westbound traffic was divided and consisted of a right turn lane, two through lanes and one left turn lane. On the west side of the intersection, the eastbound traffic was not divided and consisted of a right turn lane, two through lanes and a left turn lane. The roadway was straight, bituminous, uphill for westbound and downhill for eastbound, with a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). It was early evening during daylight and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was moderate with rush hour traffic winding down.
Vehicle one (V1), 2000 Dodge Neon, four-door, with two occupants, was westbound in lane four, the left turn lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 GMC Yukon, four-door, with one occupant was eastbound, in lane two. Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time on a green light. The driver of V1 stated she saw V2 enter the intersection and tried to steer right and applied the brakes before the impact. The driver of V2 stated he also steered right and applied the brakes before impact. The vehicles impacted, with the front of V2 hitting the right side of V1. After impact V1 rotated slightly counterclockwise and came to rest on its wheels facing southwest just inside the south side of the intersection. V2 rotated slightly counterclockwise and came to rest on its wheels facing southeast just inside the south side of the intersection. V1 was towed from the scene with moderate frontal damage. V2 was driven from the scene after the front bumper was pulled away from the left front tire. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1 and 0 kmph for V2.
A 16 year-old female was driving V1, the Dodge Neon and reported no injuries. She stated she and her mother had just left home and were driving to a clothing store. She stated she had stopped at the green light and her mother said that she could make it, so she proceeded with the turn. The driver was well rested and does not work. She is far-sighted and was wearing her glasses. This driver has been driving for just seven months and has a valid learner's permit.
A 63 year-old male was driving V2, the GMC Yukon and reported on injuries. He stated he just turned onto the roadway from a driveway and was heading home from the grocery store. He was well rested and is near-sighted and was wearing his glasses. He takes vitamins among other medications that he did not want to discuss.