The crash occurred in the eastbound lane one of a four-lane roadway including one left-turn only lane with a raised cement median dividing the three westbound lanes near an intersection 20 meters east of the crash. There was a convenient market located on the south west corner of the intersection with driveway accesses, one located 20 meters east of and the intersection and one located 20 meters south of the intersection. Both driveways had a 5% downhill slope. The traffic signal at the intersection was green for the eastbound traffic at the time of the crash. The posted speed was 72 kmph (45 mph) on this dry, straight and level road during the mid-evening hours on a weekend. The eastbound road had a 2% uphill slope 30 meters prior to the crash location.
V1, a 2006 Toyota Corolla four-door sedan was driven by a 45 year-old male. The driver stated that he had just made a purchase at the convenient market, located on the southeast corner of the intersection with the intention of going home. The driver had been stopped in the driveway of the convenient market, located east of the intersection, waiting for traffic in the eastbound direction to clear for 20 seconds intending to turn right into the eastbound lane one, prior to the crash. When the eastbound traffic cleared, he began pulling forward; unfortunately the driver dropped his cell phone at the same time, as he bent over to retrieve his cell phone with his right hand, his vehicle continued forward into the roadway. Due to his stooped position inside the car he never saw V2 hit his vehicle in the left front portion of V1 with the front right portion of V2. The force of the impact caused V1 to spin clock-wise 90 degrees, bringing the left rear portion of V1 to crash into the right passenger door of V2, V1 continued the clock-wise spin another 90 degrees, towards the intersection. Prior to reaching the cross street at the intersection, V1 headed southeast onto the side walk bordering the south side of the intersection, traveling towards the convenient market. V1 continued to veer right another 20 degrees grazing the right side of V1 on a small sign before coming to rest on the grass and partially in the south driveway of the convenient market facing southeast. The driver was visibly shaken but uninjured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2, a 1998 Ford Grand Marquis four-door taxi was driven by a 58 year-old male. The driver of V2 stated that he had traveled 14 miles from work intending to watch a football game at his friend's home prior to the crash. The driver of V2 was traveling east in lane one nearing the intersection, as the traffic light was green, he continued traveling at a rate of 64 kmph (40 mph). As he approached the same driveway V1 was exiting, the driver of V2 noticed that V1 was not going to yield the right-of-way, he slammed on his brakes and tried to steer left in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid a crash. After the crash V2 came to rest in the eastbound lane one between the intersection and the driveway. The driver was not injured.