The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a high occupancy, high volume, and high-speed interstate highway. There were five lanes northbound with both right and left side paved emergency shoulders. There were concrete wall barriers separating the northbound lanes from southbound traffic. The road widths were a standard 3.7 meters and the emergency-paved shoulders were 3.5 meters. The road was straight and level. The conditions were clear and dry on a weekday afternoon. The posted speed was 105 KMPH (65 MPH).
V1 was a 2000 Chevy Impala 4-door sedan that was traveling northbound in lane one. The driver had just merged on to the highway and was attempting to change lanes to the left. The driver changed lanes into lane two and hit V2, a 2004 Land Rover Freelander utility vehicle, which was traveling northbound in lane two. V1's left front hit V2's right side panel, causing V2 to rotate clockwise and roll over to the left 8-quarter turns. While rolling, V2 hit V3, a 2002 Infinity G-20 4-door sedan that was traveling in lane four. V3 was hit on the right side quarter panel. V1 and V2 were both towed due to damages. The driver of V2 was transported to the hospital with injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1 and 97 kmph for V2.
V1 was driven by a 23-year-old male who was on his way home from school. He stated that he had just gotten on the highway and was merging. The driver stated that he was changing lanes and just got hit. He stated he didn't know the sequence of events; he just stated he "got hit." The police reported that a witness saw V1 speeding in the merging lane and then change lanes quickly.
V2 was driven by a 59-year-old male who was traveling northbound in lane two. The driver was on his way home from a doctor's appointment. The driver stated that he was driving along at the speed limit when V1 struck his vehicle. The impact on the right side panel caused his vehicle to roll over to the left two whole times during which V2 made contact with V3, which was traveling in lane four. The driver was injured and had to be cut from the vehicle by fire rescue.
V3 was driven by a 38-year-old female who was traveling in lane four when she stated that she noticed movement out of the corner of her eye. She stated that she saw the SUV (V2) rolling over across the lanes of traffic. She then felt a hit on her right side panel. She was not injured and her vehicle was not towed due to damages.
No Critical Pre-crash Event and no Critical Reason were coded for V3 because it was not involved in the first harmful event. There were no associated factors coded to the driver of V3.