This two-vehicle crash occurred at a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. On the east side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a grassy median and the westbound traffic lanes consist of a right-turn lane, two through lanes, and a left-turn lane. This roadway curves right, is downhill, and has a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred ia few hours before midnight on a weekend. The roadway was dark, but lighted, and traffic flow was light.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Dodge Stratus with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Chevrolet Colorado four door pickup with one occupant, was stopped behind non-contact vehicles at the traffic signal in lane four, in front of V1. The driver of V1 decided to change lanes to the left and turn left at the traffic signal. V1 failed to stop in time and the front of V1 impacted the rear of V2. Both vehicles came to final rest near the point of impact, facing west in lane four. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a forty-year-old male, was moving and was going from his new apartment to his old apartment. He was well rested, very comfortable with his vehicle, and drives this roadway daily. He is in good health and takes no medications. He offered no explanation for the crash, but said that he probably shouldn't have tried to change lanes at the last second. He said he did not realize V2 was in that travel lane until about two seconds prior to impact. The driver was not distracted internally or externally.
The driver of V2, a twenty-five-year-old male, was driving from his most recent job site to visit his girlfriend. He was well rested, very comfortable with his vehicle, and drives this route rarely. He is in good health and takes no medications. He was stopped in his travel lane, looking straight ahead and was not aware of V1's presence until his vehicle was impacted from behind.