This single-vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane asphalt roadway in a rural area. The roadway is straight and slightly downhill for westbound traffic. There are occasional side roads intersecting the main road. The posted speed limit is 80 kmph (50 mph). The crash occurred mid afternoon with no adverse weather present. The area was very congested with traffic from employees leaving a work site nearby.
Vehicle one (V1) was a 2005 Ford Taurus 4-door sedan driven by a sixteen (16) year old male with two passengers. V1 was westbound when it steered right and applied brakes to avoid an oncoming vehicle passing another vehicle eastbound. V1 rotated clockwise as it departed the right road edge, traveled over a berm and rolled left contacting a barbwire fence located at the top of the berm. V1 bounced over the berm and rolled 6 quarter turns coming to rest on its top facing east. During the rollover, V1 contacted 2 large mesquite bushes as well. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1.
The driver stated that a vehicle traveling east passed a large truck that had slowed down to turn right onto a side road. He stated the vehicle was in his lane and he steered right to avoid it. The vehicle was passing in a no-passing zone for his direction of travel.
The driver of the large truck (witness #1) stated the vehicle behind him had passed 2 - 3 vehicles at a time to pass him. He viewed it out of his rear-view mirror.
He also stated the driver of the vehicle had passed in a no-passing zone. The witness saw Vehicle #1 steer to it's right to avoid the passing vehicle and saw as it departed the roadway and rolled. He wasn't sure if it rolled 6 or 10 quarter turns. He stated it came to rest on its top with the driver door facing the main road.
The driver of the passing vehicle (witness #2) stated he had slowed down from 48 kmph (30 mph) to 24 kmph (15 mph) as the large truck slowed to turn right. He stated he passed the truck as it steered right and he never crossed the yellow line. He saw V1 traveling at 112 kmph (70 mph) and believed the driver panicked as he saw this driver go around the truck. He saw V1 steer off its right road edge then saw dust. He stopped on the shoulder of the eastbound lane to offer help.