This crash occurred in the middle of a T-intersection. The eastbound approach is a 3-lane undivided roadway with one lane going west and two lanes going east. The eastbound consists of one lane that is a left turn only lane and the other lane is a right turn only lane, both are controlled by a stop sign. The eastbound roadway has a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The north/south bound approach is a 2-lane undivided roadway with one lane going in each direction. This roadway has a posted speed limit of 80 kmph (50 mph). The crash occurred in the early morning on a weekday, the roads were dry and the skies were clear. Traffic flow was light.
V1, a 2003 Chrysler Town and Country minivan with one occupant was traveling east in lane two intending on making a left and heading north. V2, a 1991 Ford Aerostar minivan with one occupant was traveling south in lane one intending on continuing straight. As V1 approached the stop sign in lane two (the left turn only lane), the vehicle slowed down but never stopped and proceeded through to make a left turn. In the middle of the turn, V1 stopped in the middle of the roadway in lane one (the southbound lane). V2 was continuing straight in that lane and was unable to stop and the front left corner of V2 collided with the left passenger side of V1. Both vehicles came to final rest at approximately where point of impact took place. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the Chrysler Town and Country minivan was driven by a 30-year-old male who reported possible injuries and was transported to the hospital from the crash scene. The driver stated that he was leaving his home and on his way to work. He did not take the time to properly defrost his windows thinking he could see good enough out of them and proceeded to work. When he came to the stop sign, he slowed down to make the left turn, but never completely stopped because when he looked he thought the road looked clear. When he was in the process of turning left, he noticed V2 coming and stopped in the middle of the intersection causing V2 to strike V1.
V2, the Ford Aerostar minivan was driven by a 69-year-old male who reported possible injuries and was transported to the hospital from the crash scene. The driver stated that he was coming home and when he approached the intersection, he observed V1 not stopping for the stop sign and coming through the intersection. When V1 was in the middle of the intersection he suddenly stopped in the middle of lane one, the lane that V2 was traveling in. The driver of V2 attempted to avoid the collision by steering and braking but was unsuccessful. The left front corner of V2 struck the left passenger side of V1.