The crash occurred in the eastbound lane one of a three-lane roadway with a cement median and fence dividing the four lanes (including one left turn only lane) in the westbound direction. Immediately prior to the crash location there were four-lane in the eastbound direction including one left turn only lane allowing access to a strip mall driveway on the north side of the road. The crash was located at a crosswalk and in front of a metro parking entrance (unrelated) during the early morning commuting hours on a weekday with moderate traffic and pedestrian crossing flow. There was a 7% downhill slope in the eastbound direction with a posted speed of 48 kmph (30 mph). The road was straight and dry and the skies were cloudy.
V1, a 2000 Honda Civic four-door sedan was driven by a 26 year-old male. The driver of V1 stated that he had just left his home on his way to school when the crash occurred. He was driving east in lane one at a rate of 56 kmph (35 mph) when he noticed two vehicles ahead of him stopped. He braked in an attempt to avoid the vehicle (V2) directly in front of him, unable to change lanes left or turn into the metro driveway due to the surrounding vehicles, he crashed into the rear of V2 with the front of V1. V1 came to rest in lane one 7.5 meters east of the crash site in lane one facing east. Although V1 incurred front and massive radiator damage the driver of V1 was able to move his vehicle 20 meters into the metro parking lot where his insurance company arranged for V1 to be towed. The driver was uninjured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2, a 2003 Ford Mustang two-door convertible was driven by a 33 year-old female. The driver of V2 stated that she had left home five minutes prior to the crash, heading to her job as a teacher. She had been traveling east in lane one at a rate of 48 kmph (30 mph) when the vehicle (NCV) traveling in front of her stopped in the lane to drop off a passenger at the metro station. She was able to stop behind the non-contact vehicle (NCV) successfully, without incident, and had been stopped behind the NCV for less then a second when her vehicle was struck from behind by a previously unseen vehicle (V1). The force of the crash propelled V1 forward 7 meters where it came to rest in lane one facing east. The driver was visibly shaken but uninjured and able to drive her vehicle.
The Police Accident Report listed vehicle damage as functional and not towed. The owner of V1 was able to move the vehicle 20 meters into an adjacent parking lot, where V1 stalled due to severe front end and radiator damage. The driver arranged for a private tow from the parking lot. The tow receipt lists the metro parking lot as the pick-up location.