This one-vehicle crash occurred in the early morning, unlit hours of a weekday on a two-lane, two-way roadway, which was not physically divided. The bituminous roadway was dry, straight, and had a downhill grade. The posted speed limit was 64 kmph (40 mph) and there were no traffic control devices associated with this particular stretch of roadway. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash and traffic flow was normal.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Ford Escort, was traveling north on the roadway, intending to continue straight. For some unknown reason the vehicle drifted into the opposing lane and departed the roadway on the left side. Upon leaving the roadway, the vehicle continued approximately 35 meters into a wooded area, striking an undetermined amount of foliage. The front of the vehicle ultimately contacted a large tree where it came to final rest. The vehicle had to be fished from the woods before being towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
The driver of V1, a 52 year-old male, suffered non-incapacitating injuries as a result of the crash and had to be transported to a medical facility for treatment. It should be noted that approximately 75 minutes had passed from the time of the crash until the time of emergency notification. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A complete interview was conducted with the driver of this vehicle. He related that he had no recollection of what had happened even after attempts to jostle his memory. He stated that he was driving to work as he normally does, and the next thing he remembers is waking up in the woods against a tree. He does not recall leaving the roadway. He relayed that he was in good general health, although he was currently taking medication for cholesterol and depression. The driver further related that he was not fatigued when he began driving to work, and although he suffers from sleep apnea, it has not affected his driving in the past. The driver was very familiar with the roadways and his vehicle was in good working condition.