This four-vehicle crash occurred on a state highway. West of the crash site, the roadway is divided by a concrete barrier and the eastbound traffic lanes consist of two through lanes. This roadway is straight, uphill in the eastbound direction, and has a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). This crash occurred during late rush hour on a weekday with heavy traffic congestion; the roadway was dark.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 BMW Z3 with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane one. Traffic was slowing in lane one due to congestion and the driver of V1 changed lanes to go faster. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Toyota Camry with three occupants, was slowing for traffic in lane two. Vehicle three (V3), a 2006 Honda Accord with one occupant, was slowing for traffic in lane two, ahead of V2. Vehicle four (V4), a 1998 Toyota Corolla with one occupant, was slowing for traffic in lane two, ahead of V3. As V1 was changing lanes, the front of V1 struck the back of V2. V2 was pushed forward and the front of V2 impacted the back of V3. The driver of V3 had looked in the rearview mirror and knew that V2 was not going to slow down enough, so she pulled a little to the left to get out of the way, but V3 was nevertheless impacted and pushed forward. The front of V3 contacted the back of V4. All four vehicles came to final rest near the points of impact, facing east in lane two. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. The driver of V3 and an occupant in V2 were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1 and 89 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a sixty-year-old female, was driving from her home to meet some friends. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route daily. She stated she was in good health and takes Prilosec, Levothyroxine, and Amitryptiline for anxiety on a regular basis. She said she wanted to go faster than the speed she was traveling in lane one, so she looked behind her into lane two to see if it was OK to get over, and when she looked forward again, all traffic ahead of her in lane two was stopped.
Little is known about the driver of V2, a twenty-one-year-old male, since the researcher was unable to obtain an interview due to a language barrier.
The driver of V3, a twenty-three-year-old female, was commuting from work to her home. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route daily. The driver was talking on the phone at the time. However she was checking the rear view mirror and saw V2 was not going to stop in time. She started to steer left onto the shoulder when V3 was struck in the back.
V4 was a 1999 Toyota Corolla. It is not a case vehicle.