The crash occurred in the intersection of two two-lane undivided residential roadways. There was one lane in each direction of each road. The east/westbound roadway was asphalt, dry, straight and sloped (+13 west of the intersection and +2% east of the intersection). The north/southbound roadway was asphalt, dry, and level. South of the intersection the roadway was straight. North of the intersection the roadway curved to the right for southbound traffic (radius of curvature of 80m, super-elevation of 2%). The posted speed limit was 56kph/35mph. There were no traffic control devices for north and southbound traffic. There were stop signs for east and west bound traffic. The crash occurred on a weekday, during early evening, while traffic was light, and under clear skies.
V1, a 2007 Dodge Ram pickup truck, with two occupants was making a left turn from the northbound lane to the westbound lane. V2, a 2000 Ford Taurus four-door with three occupants was traveling southbound negotiating the curve to the right. V1 commenced the left turn across the path of V2. V1's front left struck the left front of V2. V1 rotated slightly to the left and came to rest in the intersection facing west within about a meter of the impact point with its front left still in contact with the left front of V2. V2 came to rest facing south. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the Dodge Ram, was driven by a 49-year old male who was coded for non-incapacitating injuries and was transported to a hospital along with his 54-year old female right front seat passenger, who was coded for incapacitating injuries. The driver reported that he had just left home and was driving to dinner at under 16kph/10mph as he accelerated while making a left turn. He added that prior to turning he had looked straight ahead and not seen any approaching vehicles. He also said that the roadway curvature north of the intersection blocked his view. The driver stated that he was looking to his left and that he noted a vehicle stopped at the eastbound stop sign just prior to impact, but he never saw V2 or took any evasive actions. The amount of damage to both vehicles suggests to the researcher that speed was not a factor for either vehicle.
V2, the Ford Taurus, was driven by a 25-year old female. She and a 25-year old male passenger seated in the center of the back seat were coded for non-incapacitating injuries and transported to a hospital. The 16-year old male passenger seated in the right front seat was not injured. The driver gave police two addresses. One was non-existent and the other was for a vacant home. The phone number she gave was not a valid number. The researcher was unable to locate the driver for an interview. The researcher also attempted unsuccessfully to contact both of the other passengers. One was not at home and did not respond to a letter left there and the other gave a fictitious address. Later, the researcher was able to locate the second row passenger at work. He reported, as a surrogate, that the driver have just left a store and was traveling at the speed limit to a friend's home. He said the occupants were talking just before impact and that he did not think the driver ever saw V1 and that she took no evasive actions before impact as they prepared to go straight through the intersection.