The crash occurred near a four-way intersection of two, two-way, five-lane urban roadways controlled by a properly functioning traffic signal. Both bituminous roads were straight and level, and the road where the crash occurred has a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). Conditions at the time of the weekday, late morning crash were cloudy, daylight and dry.
V1, a 2001 Chevrolet Blazer driven by a 31 year-old male on his way from home to lunch, was eastbound on the road stopped in lane three (the left turn only lane) on the red signal, waiting to turn left. V1 was the first car in line, and when the signal for his lane turned to the green left turn arrow, V1 proceeded to turn. V1 turned into lane two, crossed the southbound left turn only lane, entered lane two southbound and the front of V1 struck the left side of v2. The driver of V1stated that he made the turn into the second lane heading north at about 20 mph and that he was looking ahead in his direction of travel and all of a sudden a pick-up truck was right in front of him. The driver had no time for avoidance maneuvers. V1 came to rest partially off of the road on the west, facing northwest. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver denied injuries at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2, a 2006 Ford F150 pick-up truck, was driven by a 51 year-old female on her way from dropping her son at a friend's house to her own home. The driver stated that she was southbound on the road in lane one approaching the intersection at about 30 mph. The driver began to slow for the red traffic signal and initiated a lane change to lane two. The driver of V2 stated that she observed V1 come around the corner fishtailing and heading towards her vehicle. The driver of V2 stopped on the roadway partially in lanes one and two facing south/southeast. V2 was stopped when struck by v1. V2 moved a small distance westward after impact, still facing the same way. V2 was driven from the scene. The fully restrained driver denied injuries at the scene for herself and the 7 month-old female passenger in a child safety seat in row two on the left side.
An Associated Factor was coded for both drivers for unfamiliarity with the road.