This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged intersection that is on-colors traffic light controlled. The primary roadway runs north to south with secondary roadways on the east and west sides. This north/south roadway is straight and is located on a hillcrest. The posted speed for this roadway is 56 kmph 35 mph. This crash occurred mid morning with good visibility and no adverse weather.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1989 Chevrolet G-2500 Van, was southbound in the #3 lane approaching the intersection. As V1 entered this intersection a four-door sedan, vehicle two (V2), turned left to go west and was impacted by V1. Both vehicles came to rest in the intersection. V1 was not disabled and was driven off the roadway to the southbound shoulder. Neither the driver nor any occupant was injured. V2 was towed for damages and V1 was driven from the scene. There were no injuries reported for V1; the driver of V2 was injured and transported to a local hospital where he was treated and released. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.
The driver of (V1), a nineteen-year-old male, was having a social conversation with his passenger prior to the collision. He stated that as he approached this intersection that he saw V2 stopped in the intersection waiting for traffic to clear. As his vehicle approached, the lights changed from yellow to red and V2 began to turn in front of him. He stated that he hit his brakes but could not stop from impacting V2. This driver stated that he has driven this vehicle many times and was comfortable with it. He stated that he is good health and that he was not distracted prior to this crash.
Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Cadillac Eldorado coupe, was stopped in the intersection heading in a northerly direction with intention of turning left. The driver, a fifty-four-year-old male, stated that he was waiting for traffic to clear on a yellow light and he saw V1 coming in the opposite direction he assumed that V1 would yield the right of way to his vehicle. He began to turn across the southbound lane and V1 suddenly accelerated and crashed into him.