The crash occurred off the roadway in the southbound lane of a two-lane north/southbound roadway. The roadway was bituminous and level, a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). It was afternoon on a weekday. The road was dry. Traffic flow was light.
V1, a 2003 Buick Rendezvous with two occupants, was traveling south when it departed the roadway to the right, striking a utility pole and a billboard. V1 made no avoidance maneuver. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
V1 was driven by a 72-year-old male and a 72-year-old female occupant. Both occupants reported complaints of pain and were transported to the hospital. The driver stated that he was forced off the road by a vehicle "full of kids, playing grab-ass". The Driver made multiple conflicting statements as to how he was forced off the road by an unknown vehicle. The driver was unable to give any description of the unknown vehicle or it's occupants. V1 made no avoidance maneuvers and appears to have simply driven off the road.
During interview, Driver claims to have been forced of the road by an unknown vehicle. The driver repeated his account of the crash numerous times during the interview and was inconsistent in regard to the unknown vehicle and it's actions. In one version the unknown vehicle cut him off, in another version the vehicle swerved while passing and forced him off the road and in a third version the unknown vehicle "tapped" him. The driver was unable to provide any description of the vehicle or occupants. There is no scene evidence indicating a loss of control either on the roadway or off. There is a small amount of scuffing on the center of the back bumper that appears to be previous damage. The occupant, driver's wife, was unable to verify any of the driver's claims. The occupant stated that she was reading a book and had no details relating to the events.
It should be noted that the driver denied any health conditions other then high blood pressure, as did his passenger (the wife), even though a significant number of prescription medications were observed in plain-sight on the kitchen counter.