This two-vehicle crash occurred at a 4-legged signal-controlled intersection. Northbound approach consisted of six lanes- two left turn, three straight and a right turn lane; was straight and level. Eastbound approach consisted of five lanes-two left turn, two straight and a right turn lane; was straight and level. This intersection was controlled by overhead traffic signals. All left turns had a protected left turn arrows. The posted speed limit was 72 kph (45 mph); both road surfaces were bituminous asphalt. Setting was morning hours on a weekday. Conditions were dark, dawn hours, clear and dry. Traffic flow was light at crash time.
Vehicle 1 (V1) was a 2006 Dodge Charger, four-door, with one occupant traveling northbound in lane three. Vehicle 2 (V2), a 2004 Ford E-450, walk-in ambulance, with two occupants was traveling eastbound in lane two. V2 while responding to an emergency call entered the intersection with the intention of passing through and continuing east. VI had a green traffic light and was intending on going straight through the same intersection. VI and V2 entered the intersection at the same time and collided at a right angle. The front of VI contacted the right, front of V2 (event 1). After impact VI deflected to the right and V2 deflected to the left. The left plane of VI then contacted the right plane of V2 (event 2). VI traveled 16.3 meters (53 feet) after impact and came to final rest facing north in northbound lane one. V2 traveled approximately 20 meters (66 feet) after impact and came to final rest in northbound lane four facing west. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1 and 80 kmph for V2.
The driver of VI, a 29 year-old male, was transported from the scene with non-disabling injuries. He was on his way to work from his home when the crash occurred. He reported driving straight in lane three, the center straight lane, at 80 kph (50 mph). As he approached the intersection he didn't see V2 until it was right in front of him. He says it was dark at the time of the crash and that their were no other vehicles in the lanes to the left of him blocking his view of V2. He said he had a green light and that the EMS vehicle did not have its emergency lights on while trying to cross the intersection. He was unable to make any avoidance maneuvers because he never saw V2 until the last second. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.
The driver of V2, a 30 year-old female, was transported from the scene with non-disabaling injuries. Because the driver of V2 is a county employee, an interview with the driver is still being arranged. Per the driver's direct supervisor, all county EMS workers were trained on emergency vehicle driving weeks prior to the crash. This was a specialed training done at the highway patrol training center. She and her partner were on their way to an emergency call several miles away, where the reported person in need of help wasn't breathing and had no pulse. No other information is available for this driver.