The crash occurred on a two-way, two-lane secondary arterial road that ran north/south, was level and had a slight curve right with a radius measuring 572.9 meters and was super-elevated at 5.6%. There were no shoulders on the road. A grass field on the right side and a private business lot on the left bordered the arterial. The arterial was intersected from west to east by a rural/residential road that was straight and level in an offset type intersection with the west portion being slightly north (approximately 4m) of the east portion. The intersection was controlled by a two-way set of stop signs for the residential road. Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight and dry in the morning at mid-week on a weekday. The speed limit on the residential road was 48kph/30mph and on the arterial was 80kph/50mph.
V1 was a 1987 Toyota pickup traveling east on the residential road when it passed the stop sign and into the intersection and was struck on its right side by the front of V2, a 1988 Ford Thunderbird that was traveling north on the arterial and skidding longitudinally at impact. V1 rotated 120 degrees to its clockwise and came to rest facing southwest in a grass field at the northeast corner of the intersection approximately 8.5 from impact. V2 rotated about 80 degrees clockwise and came to rest at the northeast corner of the intersection facing northeast about 3.5 meters north of impact. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1 was driven by an unrestrained eighteen-year-old-male who was transported to a local trauma center with possible injuries. He was on his way home from his brothers house by way of dropping a friend off at home first (before the crash) but did not recall actual crash events (He did hit his head in the crash).
V2 was driven by a forty-seven-year-old-belted-female who was transported to an area hospital for treatment of possible injuries. She was on her way to work from dropping some trash at the dump when the crash occurred.