This two-vehicle crash occurred at a four-legged intersection. The main roadway ran east/west with an intersecting north/south road controlled by stop signs. The east/west road was a two-way two-lane road divided by a center westbound passing line; it was straight with an uphill 1 percent grade. The east/west roadway had no traffic control device. The northbound approach had two lanes (undivided) with a 1.6 percent uphill grade. Curbs and sidewalks were present at this intersection. Conditions were daylight, cloudy and dry. Setting was afternoon hours on a weekday with moderate traffic flow.
V1 was a 1980 GMC medium/heavy dump truck with one occupant traveling westbound in lane one. V2 was a 2006 Chrysler Town & Country minivan with one occupant traveling southbound in lane one. V2 had stopped at its stop sign with the intention of passing through the intersection. Because of the far set back of the stop sign, V2 inched closer toward the intersection to check traffic. V2 saw a non-contact vehicle in the opposing lane wanting to make a left turn. V2 made sure the non-contact vehicle wasn't going to turn left in front of it, before proceeding into the intersection. Once V2 entered the intersection it was struck on its left front plane by the front right corner of V1 (event 1). In an attempt to avoid a collision with V2, the driver of V1 had locked up his brakes, leaving 24.5 meters (80 feet) of skid marks prior to impact and steered to the left. The right rear of V1 then side slapped the left rear of V2 (event 2). V1 continued on toward the left and came to final rest 23.4 meters (77 feet) southwest of the impact area on the southwest corner of the intersection. After impact, the force of the knee bolster airbag caused the driver of V2's right foot to hit the accelerator and travel 44.8 meters (147 feet) from the impact area. V2 traveled 180 degrees clockwise, ran over the westbound north curb, then went down a negative 13 percent slope and came to final rest inches away from a townhouse. The distance from the curb to the townhouse was 12.5 meters (41 feet). Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a 72-year old male, suffered minor injuries but refused transport. He's the owner of his own landscaping/construction company. He reported that there was a debris dump at the end of street and this was his 42nd time this month making a trip to that dump. He was on his way back to the job site driving very cautiously because he knows how badly people drive in this area. He claimed that as he approached the intersection at 48 kmph (30 mph), he saw V2 stop, and then never look left before proceeding into the intersection. He stated, "She never saw what hit her." He locked up his brakes and steered left in an attempt to avoid striking her driver's door and severely injuring the driver. He claimed to have been driving large trucks including fire engines for 50 years. His vehicle suffered disabling front right corner damage and had to be towed from the scene. The driver refused to have his vehicle inspected.
The driver of V2, a 66-year-old retired female, suffered evident injures that required transport to the hospital for treatment. Her husband provided a complete surrogate interview. He reported that everyday his wife picks up their grandchildren from school and brings them back to their house for the afternoon. That afternoon she was doing the same. As she approached the stop sign, she wanted to go straight across. She looked left and never saw V1 coming, but claimed that the curve makes it hard to see traffic from the left. Since nobody was coming in her mind, she focused her attention straight to make sure opposing traffic wasn't going to turn left in front of her. The intersection appeared clear, so she accelerated straight and was then struck by V1. The force of the knee bolster airbag caused her foot to hit the accelerator and travel in a northerly direction and almost contact a house. The driver had a poor memory of the post crash events. Her vehicle suffered disabling left side damage. The husband stated that the reason that his wife was able to travel so far after impact was because Chrysler doesn't have a post airbag deployment fuel cutoff.