This two-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of a two-lane, north/south roadway and a two-lane east/west roadway. The east/west road is straight and level and controlled by stop signs. The north/south road is straight and level with no traffic controls. The posted speed limit for both roadways is 80 kmph (50 mph). This crash occurred during hours of darkness with no street lighting and no moon. The weather was clear with no adverse atmospheric conditions. The roadways are constructed of bituminous asphalt.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Saturn four door with two occupants was westbound in the number one lane of the two-lane roadway approaching the stop sign and made a rolling stop, then proceeded into the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Nissan Altima four door with three occupants, was northbound in the number one lane of the northbound roadway traveling at 80 kmph (50 mph). The driver of V1 entered the intersection and made no avoidance efforts. The driver of V2 steered left, locked-up the brakes, and skidded into V1. The front of V2 struck the left front corner of V1. The vehicles separated, V2 continued forward and steered to a controlled stop in the number one southbound lane facing northwest. V1 rotated more than 180 degrees clockwise and came to rest facing southeast in the number one westbound lane. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a fifty (50) year old female, stated she and her mother had been gambling in a nearby casino and were unfamiliar with the area. She stated she had somehow driven onto the westbound roadway and did not know where she was. She stated it was very dark and unlighted. She made a rolling stop at the stop sign with the intention of turning around and returning on the roadway she had been traveling. She stated that a vehicle in front of her had stopped and turned left. She was concentrating on turning around and not other traffic. She looked but did not see the approaching V2. She pulled forward and impacted with V2. The impact spun her around clockwise and she stopped. Her mother, occupant two in the right front seat, required a wheelchair that was folded and stored in the rear seat area. The driver stated she had been driving about 15 minutes at the time of the crash. This driver was in good health, had prescription glasses that were worn at the time of the crash. This driver stated she slept ten hours the night before in her residence in an adjacent State. She stated she started driving at age eighteen years and did have driver education in high school.
The driver of V2, a twenty five (25) year old female and two minor children in child seats in the second row, had just left a family member's home and was going home. She had been driven about 4.8 kilometers (3 miles) in ten minutes of travel. She saw the car lights from V1 approach the stop sign and assumed the vehicle would stop. She stated the vehicle did not come to a complete stop and pulled slowly in front of her. The driver of V2 attempted to steer left and locked-up the brakes. The front of V2 impacted with the left front corner of V1. The driver of V2 brought the vehicle to a controlled stop in the number one northbound lane. The two children in the rear were properly restrained in child seats and were not injured. The driver of V2 stated she was in good health, did not require glasses, had taken no medications and had driver education in high school. She had slept for six and one half hours the night before and averaged about seven and one half hours per night. The driver stated her view of V1 was not obscured. She stated she saw V1 about two or three car lengths south of the intersection.