This single-vehicle crash occurred on the east side of a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. On the west side of the intersection, the roadway is undivided and the eastbound traffic lanes consist of a left turn lane, two through lanes, and a right turn lane. On the east side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a raised brick median and the eastbound travel lanes consist of the two through lanes. This roadway is straight and level, with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred at night with light traffic flow.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Ford Focus with a single occupant, was eastbound in lane three, approaching the intersection. The driver became distracted by looking at a sign on the northeast corner of the intersection, and veered slightly to the left as V1 was passing through the intersection. V1 drove onto the brick median and its right front collided with a sign at the beginning of the median. V1 impacted the median with its undercarriage and continued traveling with its left side tires still on the median and its right side tires on the roadway for 21 meters (67 feet) before impacting a second sign with its left front. V1 traveled for another 27 meters (88.5 feet) on the median before coming to final rest facing east-southeast in lane two, the original through lane of travel. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1.
The driver of V1, a seventy-four-year-old female, was coming from work and going home. She said she was looking at how much the price of gas had risen and before she knew it, she had hit the median curb. She reported being well rested, comfortable with her car, and driving this route daily, but has several serious health conditions - lupus, porphyria, and leukemia. She takes a variety of medications to treat these illnesses and said she was hurrying home to get her pain pills. She regularly takes morphine, Diazepam, and Oxycodone, as well as 11 other prescriptions for these disorders. She has no vision or hearing impairment and works approximately three hours per day.