This two-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of a four-way intersection. There was one each eastbound/westbound lanes. The westbound direction had an additional northbound right turning lane. Intersecting these lanes were two northbound and two southbound lanes. All of the lanes were non-physically divided; only double yellow lines separated each opposing direction of travel. Movements through the intersection were controlled by standard and overhead signalized traffic control devices. The bituminous covered roadways were dry and level: slightly uphill for west/north (V1 & V2) directions of travel, less then 2%. The roadways were slanted and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit for all directions was 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred on a weekend during the late afternoon daylight hours. The roadway was free of any defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.
Vehicle one, a 1998 Jeep Cherokee compact utility, was traveling westbound through the intersection when it contacted with its front the right side of vehicle two, a 1988 Oldsmobile Cutlass 4-door sedan, traveling northbound through the same intersection. After the initial impact, V1 traveled several feet and rotated slightly clockwise where it came to final rest continuing to face westward. Vehicle two, after the initial impact, traveled a few feet and rotated slightly counter-clockwise where it came to final rest facing northward. Both vehicles suffered severe damages and were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
The driver and single occupant of V1, a 36-year old male, said he was traveling westbound in lane two before entering the intersection on the steady green light when he struck V2 traveling northbound through the same intersection on the red light. V2, he said, was behind a vehicle that made a right turn and he thinks, the driver of V2 assumed the light turned green and proceeded through the intersection. He explained, that he's an attorney on his way home from work and had traveled 5-miles this leg of the trip. He works a lot, last eight days straight totaling 65-hours. However, he was not tired, he is use to it. He's familiar with the roadway he travels on it daily. He was eventually transported to the hospital by medics to get checked out.
The driver of V2, a 67-year old male and single occupant, did not want to participate in the study. He refused an interviewed. He was transported to the hospital by medics with non-life threatening injuries.
An on-scene witness said he was standing on the sidewalk (southwest corner) talking to a neighbor facing the intersection and saw everything. V1 (the SUV) was traveling westbound in the middle lane for the traffic going straight. He had the green light because cars were traveling behind him and going through the intersection too. Right when he got to the middle, V2 (the passenger car) driving, and speeding, traveling northbound at about 80 kmph (50 mph) on the red light, never stopped. Vehicle one hits V2 and the rest is history. I mean this guy, (driver V2) was speeding and didn't even think of stopping, he just kept going.