The crash occurred in the westbound lanes of a four-lane undivided roadway with two lanes in each the west and eastbound directions. This was a straight road with a 4 percent downhill slope in the westbound direction. The reported speed was 64 kmph (40 mph) with a posted advisory speed of 48 kmph (30 mph). On the north side of the road there was a driveway access to a pharmacy. There was a traffic signal 64 meters east of the driveway. The road was dry and the sky was cloudy during this weekday early evening at dusk. This was a well-traveled road during this commuting period.
V1 was a 2004 Cadillac Deville 4-door sedan driven by a 66 year-old male. He stated that he was had been stopped in the pharmacy driveway for 3-5 seconds, waiting for the traffic to clear before turning left, intending to go home. When the driver was sure that the path was clear, he began turning left. As V1 crossed the westbound lane one, V2, a 2002 Mercedes-Benz C320 4-door sedan traveling west in lane one, crashed into the left front of V1 with the front of V2. The force of the crash caused V2 to rotate counterclockwise 110 degrees. Both vehicles came to rest across the east and westbound number two lanes, V1 facing south and V2 facing southeast. The driver of V1 was unaware of V2's approach and stated after the crash that he didn't know what hit him. The driver was transported due to injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2 was driven by a 28 year-old female traveling with a 29 year-old male friend. Both occupants saw V1 stopped in the pharmacy driveway as their vehicle approached in the westbound lane one. The driver and passenger said that V1 suddenly pulled out in front of them and that there was no time to react or avoid a crash. The driver stated that she thought her rate of speed at the time of the crash was 56 kmph (35 mph); the passenger thought the rate of speed for V2 was closer to 64 kmph (40 mph). The driver was transported due to injuries, the passenger stated that he had a fear of ambulances and was transported to the hospital for unknown injuries by a friend.