The crash occurred on a two-way, two-lane, straight, bituminous road with a statutory speed limit of 80 kmh (55 mph). Conditions at the time of the weekday evening crash were dusk, clear and dry.
V1, a 2000 Oldsmobile Alero two door sedan, was driven by an 18 year-old female on her way home from a friend's house. V1 was southbound on the road on a 4% uphill slope traveling 30 mph. The driver stated that a deer jumped out from the right side of the road over the right side of her vehicle and was struck by the front left corner of V1. The driver had no time to avoid the deer. The deer was thrown into the air and struck a northbound vehicle (V2). The driver of V1 pulled over on the road and V1 was drivable following the crash. The fully restrained driver denied injuries at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2, a 2004 Mercury Monterey minivan, was driven by a 27 year-old female on her way to work from home. V2 was northbound on the road on a 4% downhill slope. The driver of V2 remembered seeing a deer cross from left to right ahead of her, but did not see the second deer, which was struck by V1. The driver of V1 stated that after she hit the deer it flew into the oncoming minivan. The deer struck the hood and windshield of the minivan and the head (and antlers) of the deer entered the vehicle through left side of windshield, and remained there. V2 left the roadway on the right and struck 4 trees. The front right of V2 struck the first tree (7 cm diameter), shearing it 70 cm above the ground. V2 then struck the second tree (14 cm in diameter) with the front right, bending it over at the base. V2 continued and the left side of V2 and the body of the deer struck the third tree (20cm in diameter). The body of the deer entered the open front left window of the minivan and came to rest across the driver and onto the front right seat. V2 struck the fourth tree (12 cm in diameter) with the front left and came to rest facing northeast. V2 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver of V2 was airlifted by med flight to a local trauma center due to injuries.