This two-vehicle fatality crash occurred along an undivided two-lane, north/south S-curved road. The southbound approach curved left with a 4 percent super-elevation and a 4.6 percent downhill profile. There was a 9.4 meter-long (31 foot) section of right (west) road edge deterioration from vehicles repeatedly running off the roadway. The northbound approach curved left with a 3.3 percent super-elevation and a 5 percent uphill profile. This stretch of road had 1.8 meter-wide (6 foot) paved shoulders. The posted speed limit was 72 kmph (45 mph) and the surface type with bituminous asphalt. Setting was late afternoon hours on a weekday. Conditions were daylight, sunny and dry. Traffic flow was light to moderate at the time.
Vehicle one was a 1995 Ford Mustang two-door with one occupant traveling southbound negotiating a left curve. Vehicle two was a 1999 Ford F-550 medium-heavy pickup truck with one occupant traveling northbound on the same roadway. V1 departed the road to the right with its right front and right rear tires. V1 traveled an unknown distance while off the road to the right. V1 then re-entered the roadway around the area of road edge deterioration in a counterclockwise yaw. V1 left 20 meters (66 feet) of right rear tire marks before changing directions and beginning a clockwise yaw. When V1 re-entered the roadway, it traveled across its original travel lane, crossed the double-yellow lane line and entered the oncoming lane. V1 left 12.8 meters (42 feet) of left rear clockwise yaw marks before impact. V1 steered right at the last second in an attempt to re-enter its original travel lane and avoid a collision with V2. V2 struck V1 in V2's travel lane. The left side of V1 was struck by the front plane of V2 (Event 1). The driver of V2 had locked up the brakes, leaving 5.8 meters (19 feet) of skids marks prior to impact. V1 and V2 came to final rest near the point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.
A witness to the crash was traveling northbound in lane one, directly in front of V2. She reported V1's travel speed as 72 kmph (45 mph). As she was traveling around the curve, she noticed that V1 had run off the road. V1 kicked up lots of dust and when it re-entered the roadway, and it missed hitting her car by 3 meters (10 feet). She looked in her car's rearview mirror and saw V1 strike the front of V2 after crossing the double yellow line. The witness then stopped her vehicle and tried to assist the driver of V1 and V2.
The driver of V1 was a 17 year-old female who was fatally injured in this crash. She was a full time high school student who was involved in many extra curricular activities, including track and field. As well as her school activities, she had a part-time job at a local fast food restaurant, at which she worked part-time 18 hours per week when she wasn't in school. On the day of the crash, she had just left her house, which was less than a mile up the road. She had a shift that started in 10 minutes and according to her family, she was probably in a hurry to get to work on time. She had only had the job for a few weeks and was still adjusting to her new position, which they think caused a slight degree of work related stress. They said she was a safe driver who always put safety first. She reportedly hated driving the road she crashed on. She felt the lanes were too narrow and was always scared when she met a vehicle coming from the opposite direction. For that reason, her sister said she would always driver closer to the road edge than the double-yellow line. They were unsure why she ran off the road, but could confirm that she was not talking to anybody on her cell phone prior to the crash. Her vehicle suffered disabling left side damage and was towed from the scene.
The driver of V2 was a 53 year-old male who suffered minor injuries and was transported to the hospital by EMS several hours after the crash due to elevated blood pressure. On this afternoon, he had just finished work for the week and was on his way home. He had driven approximately 15 miles down a road he had driven everyday for several years. He reported his travel speed to be around 64 kmph (40 mph. As he was negotiating the left uphill curve, he saw a plume of dust ahead on him to the left. Next thing he knew, an out-of-control car crossed the double-yellow line and struck his truck with its left side. He thinks the driver of V1 attempted to steer right just prior to impact to avoid a collision. He remembers hitting the brakes, but didn't remember if they locked up or not. He reported that the truck weighed 16,000lbs, including 4,000lbs of cargo. He reported that he didn't have a cargo shift before or during impact. His vehicle suffered disabling front-end damage and was towed from the scene.
*Within 12 hours of crash, state DOT crews built up the shoulder several meters with dirt and gravel. DOT crews also added a 56 kmph /35 mph advisory speed, left curve ahead sign for both directions, and also added large left curve reflective arrows throughout the curve. These road improvements were a direct result of this crash as well as a dozen other crashes that occurred in this curve in the past two years.