The crash occurred on a north/south undivided four-lane roadway. There were two lanes for northbound traffic and two lanes for southbound traffic. The northbound roadway curved slightly to the right and the grade was +5 percent. The southbound roadway curved slightly to the left and the grade was -5 percent. The bituminous roadway had a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). It was mid-morning and the weather was clear. It should be noted there was a light snowfall the previous evening and there were wet spots on the roadway. It should also be noted the roadway widened from two lanes to four lanes approximately 50 meters south of the point of impact.
V1, a 2002 Ford Ranger pickup truck with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane two. V1 crossed the double yellow line at an approximate 45 degree angle counterclockwise, crossed travel lane two southbound and struck V2 traveling southbound in lane one. V1 then rotated 45 degrees clockwise and came to final rest facing north on the shoulder of the southbound roadway. The driver, a 19-year-old male, was not injured and required no medical attention. A partial interview was obtained at the scene; the driver did not return any subsequent calls for a complete interview. The driver stated at the scene he was traveling 72 kmph (45 mph) when he hit a patch of "black ice" and lost control of the vehicle. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.
V2, a 2002 Chevrolet Cavalier 4-door sedan with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane one. V2 was struck on the left side of the vehicle at an approximate 45-degree angle. It then rotated counterclockwise 180 degrees and came to final rest 38.1 meters from point of impact on the shoulder of the southbound lanes. The driver, a 21-year-old female, was transported to a medical facility for treatment. A complete interview was obtained with the father of the driver acting as a go-between. The driver stated she was traveling 72 kmph (45 mph) in lane one southbound. She stated she did not see the striking vehicle until right before impact. The driver stated she applied her brakes right before impact. The driver suffered a lacerated spleen due to the crash but otherwise was in good general health. The driver traveled this roadway daily, as it is part of the route she takes to school.