This two-vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane roadway at mid-afternoon during daylight hours. North of the crash site, the roadway is divided by a curbed median and the southbound traffic lanes consist of a single through lane on a -2.4% downgrade. At the crash site and further south, the roadway is undivided and the traffic lanes consist of a single through lane for the northbound and southbound directions. This roadway is straight, uphill in the northbound direction, and has a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with moderate traffic flow. On the west side of the roadway (southbound direction), there were slush and ice conditions present from snow blown onto the road by gusty cross winds.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Kia Sportage with two occupants present, was southbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Ford Expedition with two occupants present, was northbound in lane one. The driver of V1 lost control in the slush and ice and V1 began to rotate counterclockwise after passing the end of the curbed median. V1 crossed the left lane line approximately perpendicular to the roadway. The driver of V2 applied the brakes and steered right to avoid a crash, but was unable to move V2 out of the path of V1 because of a deep snow bank plowed to the side of the road. The front right side of V1 collided with the front left side of V2. After the initial impact, V1 continued its counterclockwise rotation and side slapped the left side of V2 with its right side. V1 continued to rotate counterclockwise and came to rest facing west-northwest in lane one of northbound traffic. V2 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest facing north-northwest in the snow bank on the right side of the road. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a forty-three-year-old female, was coming home from a shopping trip with her husband. She was rested, comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route several times a month. She stated she started slowing down when she saw the bad conditions on the road and said that control loss began when a strong gust of wind blowing from the west "moved" the car. She steered right to avoid the counterclockwise rotation, but was unable to gain control. She says she drove a car for an unspecified time in Mexico, but had only been driving regularly in this area for the last six months. She was reluctant to talk about her lack of experience and indicted she was uncomfortable driving. She said her husband would have been driving home except that he had two beers at lunch. The researcher noticed at the vehicle inspection that the windshield was very dirty and feels that sun glare on it contributed to the collision because the driver may not have been able to fully view the condition of the road. All four tires had very little tread and this was a factor in the crash as well because of the icy road conditions.
The driver of V2, a twenty-one-year-old female, was driving from her boyfriend's house to a mall so that they could do some shopping. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, in good health, and drives this route daily.