The crash occurred on a five lane, undivided east/west highway that was intersected by a four-lane north/south road. The east/west highway had two straight-through travel lanes and a left turn lane in each direction. The intersection itself was straight; however, the highway curved slightly to the north about 50m east of the intersection with a measured grade at this point of 4.2 percent (positive if eastbound). The northbound approach to the intersection had five lanes. There was a right turn only lane (1), a through lane (2), two left turn-only lanes (3&4), and a southbound through lane (5). This approach was straight and level. The intersection was controlled by traffic signals with pedestrian controls with a posted speed of 72 kmph (45 mph). Conditions at the time of the crash were dark, unlit, and cloudy on a weekday evening.
V1, a 2002 Honda Civic 4-door, was in lane 3 of the northbound road stopped at the red light waiting to turn left. It then maneuvered to its right to attempt a right turn onto the arterial. As soon as it turned right onto the arterial, it attempted to make a U-turn and head west into its original intended direction. As V1 was maneuvering into lane 2 eastbound, V1 struck V2's right side with its front. V2 was a 2000 Chevrolet Blazer utility vehicle that was traveling east on the arterial in the lane 2. The initial impact was followed by V1's left side slapping V2's right side. V1 traveled another 15 meters east and came to rest facing east in lane 1 eastbound. V2 skidded to its final rest facing east in westbound lane 2. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1 was driven by a sixteen-year-old belted female who was transported from the scene via EMS with non-incapacitating injuries. She was on her way home from retrieving school supplies from a friend's house at the time of the crash.
V2 was driven by a twenty-seven year old unbelted female who was transported from the scene via EMS with non-incapacitating injuries. She was on her way to work at the time of the crash.