This one-vehicle crash occurred on a two-way, two-lane roadway during daylight hours on a weekend. The bituminous roadway had a slight left curve for vehicles traveling west. The roadway was dry and level. There were no traffic control devices associated with this stretch of roadway. The posted speed limit was 40 kmph (25 mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash and traffic flow was normal.
Vehicle one, a 2000 Honda Accord 2-door, was heading west on the roadway negotiating the left curve. The driver lost control of the vehicle and it began to rotate clockwise almost 180 degrees. The vehicle first skidded into the oncoming lane before re-entering the westbound lane and then went off the road to the right. V1 went up over the curb and then struck two signs while rolling over. The vehicle came to final rest on its roof off the westbound roadway facing west. The vehicle had to be towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1.
The driver of the vehicle, a 21 year-old male, was not injured as a result of the crash and did not require any medical treatment. There was one other occupant located in the right front passenger seat that was also uninjured. A complete interview was obtained from the driver of this vehicle. He stated that shortly before the crash he was cut off by another vehicle and became upset. He then started to argue about this incident with his mother who was his passenger. He became more upset because his mother would not drop the subject. As he was heading around the curve at approximately 41-50 mph, his mom was pleading with him to slow down. He slammed on his brakes, which caused him to lose control of the vehicle. The driver was headed home from a local store so he wasn't driving for any long period of time and was familiar with the roadway. He relayed that he was in good health and was not taking any medication. The driver stated that his car was in good working condition and that no mechanical problems contributed to this crash.