This crash occurred on a weekday during early afternoon hours. The location was a divided curved trafficway. The weather was cloudy but the roads dry. The posted speed limit for this trafficway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This trafficway intersects with an entrance road to a gated community. The median was interrupted at this intersection. The westbound roadway had a left turn lane for the entrance roadway. Preceding the intersection from west to east was a 39.6 meters (130 feet) long right curve, with a radius of 375 meters (1230 feet, measured from the east tip of the west median). This curve was preceded by an 87.2 meter (286 feet) straight bridge. This straight bridge was preceded by another right curve with a 375 meter (1230 feet) radius.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Honda Accord, was traveling east in the third lane of the roadway. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Ford Explorer was traveling west in the second lane of traffic. After V1 passed through the intersection, V1 traveled off the road to the left onto the curbed median. The front of V1 struck a light pole on the median, rotated counterclockwise and came to rest at the light pole. The pole broke off at the base and fell into the westbound lanes of traffic. The end of the pole struck the hood of V2. V2 continued on and stopped at the west median. V1 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
A 77-year old male was the driver of V1. He sustained fatal injuries as a result of the crash and was not interviewed. Neither of his passengers was interviewed. The driver's daughter-in-law provided some general information about the driver. She stated that he was having regular dialysis treatment but was otherwise in fair health condition. At the time of the crash, he was on his way to go to a local food store and a dry cleaner. Medical records indicate that the driver of V1 had end stage kidney disease and was on dialysis. He also had a pacemaker at the time of the crash. Alcohol tests were negative.
A 27-year old male was the driver of V2. He was heading for a sports gym for exercise. He was on his day off from work and driving a route he rarely drives. He did not see why V1 departed the roadway and did not see the pole being damaged during the first event. He had no time to take any avoidance action.