The crash occurred off the road of an eastbound four-lane interstate. The interstate was straight at the crash site with a 3 percent downhill slope prior to the crash and a slight right curve 30 meters prior to and past the crash site. The posted speed was 89 kmph (55 mph) on this wet, bituminous, busy, well-traveled roadway. The sky was dark and cloudy during the early evening and traffic was moderate during this commuting period.
V1, a 2003 Volkswagen Golf driven by a 25-year old female, was traveling east with her 24-year old boyfriend in lane one at a reported speed of 72 kmph (45 mph). She stated that the downhill slope and the design of the road caused excess water to pool onto lane one. Due to the excess water in lane one, V1 began to hydroplane, rotating clockwise over to the right shoulder and off the roadway, striking the guardrail with the front left portion of V1. In an unsuccessful attempt to regain control of the vehicle, the driver of V1 began steering left and braking, but the vehicle continued to hydroplane, still rotating clockwise and then hitting the right guardrail with the right rear portion of V1. V1 continued to spin clockwise and departed the paved right shoulder until the right front tire caught in the mud on the roadside. The abrupt stop tripped V1 one-quarter turn onto the right passenger's side, then one-quarter turn onto its roof. Both occupants were transported due to injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
A witness driving behind V1 stated that they were both traveling at a speed of 89 kmph (55 mph). When V1 reached the bottom of a sloping portion on the interstate, V1 spun 180 degrees counterclockwise facing the witness's vehicle. V1 continued to spin another 90 degrees onto the shoulder, striking the guardrail with the right rear portion of V1. The witness saw the driver of V1 turn the steering wheel sharply right, V1 then spun clockwise 360 degrees, catching the right rear tire in the muddy ditch and flipping V1 onto the roof, turning on its roof 180 degrees facing north. The witness stated that due to the road construction prior to the accident, storm drains can no longer handle heavy rains, causing the rain to pool onto the roadway.
The inspection of V1 revealed that the right front tire was the tripping force due to its heavily mudded condition. The damages to V1 and the position of V1 at final rest follow the chain of events as described by the driver.