This crash occurred in the evening of a weekend just north of an intersection on a 5-lane roadway. The roadway consisted of two lanes in each direction divided by a center two-way left turn lane. The bituminous roadway was dry, straight, and dark with a slight up-hill grade. The traffic flow was normal and it was cloudy and overcast at the time of the crash.
Vehicle #1 (V1), a 2000 Pontiac Sunfire with one occupant, exited a driveway and turned south traveling at an angle across all southbound lanes of travel into the center turn lane to turn left into another driveway. Vehicle #2 (V2), a 2006 GMC Yukon Denali was southbound in lane two. V1 failed to yield to V2 and began its left turn maneuver. The front of V1 struck the left front corner of V2. V1 rotated almost 360 degrees before coming to final rest in the northbound lanes. V2 rotated clockwise and departed the roadway before coming to final rest next to a tree at the north side of the parking lot on the east side of the roadway. Both vehicles were towed from the scene because of damage to the vehicles. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a 40-year-old male, was transported for treatment of minor injuries that he sustained in the crash. He stated he had just loaded his vehicle with deliveries and was going to cross the roadway to anther store to pick-up other items for delivery. He stated that as he exited the driveway he looked down to redial his cell phone to contact a friend that had called while stocking his vehicle. As he pushed redial and looked back up he noticed a vehicle traveling toward his vehicle. He braked but could not avoid the crash.
The driver of V2, a 39-year-old male, was uninjured in the crash. He stated that he had just left a bookstore after picking up some books that he had been looking for. He claimed he was excited to go home to talk to his wife about the books. As he traveled north in lane two he noticed a vehicle crossing over the roadway but thought it would yield the right of way. As he approached V1 turned in front of him and he could not avoid contacting the vehicle.