This two-vehicle crash occurred in the early evening hours of a weekday on a two-way roadway, which was not physically divided. The bituminous roadway was dry, straight, and level. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph) and there were no traffic control devices associated with this particular stretch of roadway. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash and traffic flow was normal.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Suzuki Forenza, was heading west on the roadway in lane two and was intending to turn left into the entrance way of a gas station. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Hyundai Elantra, was heading east on the roadway in lane one intending to continue straight. As V1 attempted to make the turn, the front of V2 contacted the right side of V1. Both vehicles came to final rest shortly after the impact and had to be towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
The driver of V1, a 41 year-old female, suffered non-incapacitating injuries as a result of the crash but did not require transport to a medical facility. There were no other occupants in the vehicle at the time of the crash. She relayed that when she attempted to make the left turn, the other vehicle ran into her. She didn't know how fast the other vehicle was traveling, but did state that she observed the driver of the other vehicle talking on her cell phone. The driver also relayed that although she has had seizures brought on by epilepsy, she has not had an episode in three years. She still takes prescription medication for her condition, but it has never interfered with her ability to drive. The driver stated she was very familiar with her vehicle as well as the area. She related that she was not fatigued at the time of the crash and that her vehicle was in good working condition.
The driver of V2, a 25 year-old female, did not suffer any injuries as a result of the crash and did not require any medical treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. She related that she was driving along the roadway when the other vehicle turned in front of her. She stated that she tried to brake, but it was already too late. The driver claimed that although she had a cell phone in her purse, she was not talking on it when the crash occurred. She relayed that she was not tired and that she was in good health. The only medication she was taking was birth control. The driver said that she was familiar with the area and her vehicle and that no mechanical factors contributed to this crash.