This crash occurred on a north/south roadway at an intersection with a school driveway. The north/south roadway was undivided and had 5 lanes of travel. The roadway was dry concrete with a positive slope of 3 percent. The speed was posted at 72 kmph (45mph). It was late morning on a weekday and the weather was clear. There were two school driveways intersecting the roadway on the east - an entrance and an exit. The exit driveway had two lanes, was dry asphalt, and had a downhill slope of 6 percent. There was a large berm to the left of the exit driveway on the east side of the north/south roadway.
Vehicle 1, a 2002 Cadillac Escalade utility vehicle, was traveling west on the exit driveway in the second lane of travel with the intention of turning left onto the southbound roadway. Vehicle 2 was a 2004 Chevrolet Impala 4-door sedan that was traveling north in the first lane of travel. As the driver of V1 neared the intersection with the north/south roadway, he decelerated and checked traffic in each direction. The driver eased out into traffic and started to make a left turn to travel south. As the driver of V1 crossed over the northbound lane, the front of V1 struck the right front of V2. V2 then rotated clockwise to final rest at the northeast apex of the school driveway, facing south. Vehicle 1 bounced back into the driveway for final rest. The driver of V1 was not injured in the crash but his vehicle was towed from the scene due to vehicle damage. The driver of V2 was not transported because of injuries but was checked out on scene by EMS personnel. V2 was also towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
A 59-year-old male drove V1. He reported that he was in fair health and was under doctor's care for a kidney transplant and was taking anti-rejection medications. He also stated he does wear corrective lenses for nearsightedness. He stated he had just left a meeting at the school and was on his way to his home. He said that as he drove down the driveway towards the roadway he was checking traffic in both directions. He stated he was watching the left side more at the time because of a large berm along the side of the north/south roadway. He stated his view was obstructed by the berm. He stated that as he eased out onto the roadway a red vehicle appeared from his left and he had no time to react, contacting the vehicle at its right front fender. He reported that his vehicle came to final rest at point of impact. He said that the other vehicle rotated clockwise to final rest at the north side of the driveway.
A 57-year old female drove V2. She reported that her health was good but would give no further information regarding physical conditions or medications. She reported that she wore corrective lenses for reading only. She stated she was on her way to visit her mother at the time of the crash. She stated she was traveling north in lane 1 as the other vehicle exited the school driveway. She also reported that the other driver did not slow or stop before exiting the driveway. She stated that after contact she spun around to face southeast for final rest. She stated she was checked over by the EMS persons but she refused to be taken to the local trauma unit.