The crash occurred at an intersection of a primary north/south roadway and a secondary east/west roadway. The primary road had five lanes and was undivided. The secondary road had three undivided lanes. In the southbound direction, there were three southbound lanes, with lane three being a left turn-only lane. In the eastbound direction, there were two eastbound lanes of travel, with lane two being a left turn-only lane. The eastbound roadway curved to the left with a negative grade of 4.2 percent. The intersection was controlled by traffic lights on colors with a pedestrian signal. Conditions at the time of the crash were dark, unlit and dry at late evening on a weekday. The speed limit for the primary road was 64kmph/40mph and for the secondary it was 48kmph/30mph.
V1 was a 2004 Honda Element utility vehicle traveling south in lane 2 of the primary when it entered the intersection on a solid red light. Its right side was struck by the front of V2, a 2002 Toyota Avalon 4-door sedan that was turning left/north from lane 2 eastbound of the secondary road. V1 and 2 came to rest facing south in the intersection straddling lanes 1 and 2 (unmarked lanes in center of intersection). Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1 was driven by an eighteen-year-old female whose airbags deployed and was listed on the police report as having non-incapacitating injuries. She was not transported to any medical treatment facility from the scene. She was on her way from school to get something to eat at a fast food restaurant. She stated she kind of "zoned out" and didn't see the light turn red.
V2 was driven by a belted forty-three-year-old-female who was listed as sustaining non-incapacitating injuries and was transported to a hospital from the scene. Her fifteen-year-old-male passenger was listed as having possible injuries but was not transported. They were on their way home from work and school (same place) and were conversing leading into the crash.