This two-vehicle crash occurred at an urban signal-controlled four-legged intersection without pedestrian crosswalks. The main road ran north/south with an intersecting east/west roadway. Southbound approach was straight with a 3 percent downhill profile. There were two straight lanes and a left turn lane. A grass median divided this north/south roadway. Eastbound approach was straight with a 9.5 percent downhill profile. There was one right turn lane, one straight/left turn lane, and one westbound lane. A double-yellow line divided this roadway. The posted speed for north/south traffic was 72 kmph (45 mph), while east/west traffic was posted at 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred during afternoon hours on a weekday. Conditions were daylight, dry and clear.
Vehicle 1 was a 2003 Mercury Grand Marquis four-door sedan with two occupants traveling southbound in lane two. Vehicle 2 was a 2003 Dodge Durango large utility vehicle with one occupant traveling eastbound in lane two. V1 and V2 entered the intersection at the same time and collided at a right angle. The front of V1 contacted the left front side of V2 (event 1). After impact V1 deflected toward the left and V2 deflected toward the right. The right side of V1 side slapped the left rear of V2 (event 2). V2 then continued on a right path and came to final rest on the southbound west shoulder facing south. V2 left 22.2 meters (72.8 feet) of left front tire impressions on the ground, post impact. After event 2, V1 departed the roadway to the left onto the grass median that divided north/south traffic. V1 traveled 36 meters (118 feet) before striking a concrete drainage crate with its undercarriage (event 3). V1 continued another 25 meters (82 feet) before coming to final rest facing south in the grass median. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1 was a 75 year-old female who was transported from the scene with evident injuries. She and her husband had left their home, made a quick stop by their insurance company office for 20 minutes and were en-route to a local tow yard to pick up personal belongings from their other vehicle that they crashed the night before. The husband had let his wife who suffers from memory loss and dementia drive because he received a DWI the day before and his license had been taken away from him. They headed southbound in lane two at 48 kmph (30 mph) toward downtown on a roadway she rarely drives. She claimed to have never seen V2 pull out from the right, but the husband did see V2 and was yelling at her to slow down because they were going to collide. She was unable to recall the post crash events, but the husband said they went across the grass median to the left and struck a concrete drain crate that stuck up 6-7 inches before coming to final rest. Their vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.
The driver of V2 was a 49 year-old female who was transported from the scene with evident injuries. According to police, as she approached the intersection, she intended on turning left to travel northbound. The driver of V2 hired an attorney who refused to allow his client to grant an interview until the claim was settled. Her vehicle suffered disabling left side damage and was towed from the scene.