This two-vehicle crash occurred during the dusk hours of a weekday, in the middle of a T-intersection. The bituminous roadways that formed the intersection consisted of two lanes, one in each direction. The east/west roadway upon which vehicle one was traveling was dry, straight and level with a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The north/south roadway upon which vehicle two was traveling was also dry and straight but with a slight uphill grade. The posted speed limit on this roadway was 72 kmph (45 mph). The only traffic control device associated with this crash was a posted stop sign for vehicle one. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash, however, the onset of rush hour traffic had just commenced.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Dodge Dakota, was heading west on the roadway approaching the intersection at which point he planned to make a left and continue south on the roadway. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Bluebird school bus, was heading north on the roadway intending to continue straight through the intersection and make a right at the next intersection, located approximately 75-100 meters north. As V1 attempted to make the left at the intersection, the front of the vehicle made contact with the right front corner of the school bus. The impact caused V1 to rotate clockwise approximately 90 degrees before coming to final rest in the northbound lane facing west. Vehicle two continued forward after the impact and continued forward before coming to a controlled stop in the northbound lane. Vehicle one had to be towed from the scene due to damage while vehicle two could be driven. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.
The driver of V1, a 25 year-old male suffered unknown injuries as a result of the crash, but did not require transport to a medical facility. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A complete interview was obtained from the driver of this vehicle. He related that he was stopped at the intersection waiting to make a left. He had noticed the school bus approximately 100 yards away with its right turn signal on. He also relayed that he observed the bus slowing down. For these reasons, the driver of vehicle one assumed that the school bus was going to make a right at the intersection where V1 was exiting. The driver stated that he was familiar with the roadways and that he was not fatigued. He claimed to be in good general health. The driver said that he did not suffer from any sleep disorders although he also admitted to taking prescription medication to help alleviate such symptoms. The driver stated that he was familiar with his vehicle and that no mechanical problems contributed to this crash.
The driver of V2, a 50 year-old female, was not injured as a result of the crash and did not require any medical treatment. There were two other occupants on the bus (including a disabled child in a wheelchair) when the crash occurred that were also not injured. A complete interview was obtained from the driver of this vehicle. She claimed that she was indeed intending to make a right, but not at the intersection where the crash occurred. She stated that she was planning on making a right a couple of hundred feet further north. It should also be noted that she denied having her turn signal on at the time of the crash. She relayed that she was looking up the road when the aide on the bus yelled that the other vehicle was not going to stop. By this point it was too late for anything to be done. The driver related that she was familiar with the roadway as it was her daily route. The school bus driver claimed that she was in good health and was not fatigued at the time of the crash. She was familiar with the bus and stated that there were no contributing mechanical factors.