The crash occurred at an interstate off ramp where it intersected two secondary arterial roads. The off ramp intersected an east/west arterial from the north. The ramp had four lanes. There were two right turn only lanes (1 and 2) and two through lanes that provided access to the other (uninvolved) secondary arterial. Lanes one and two were separated from three and four by a painted gore. The two right turn lanes were curved to the right with a radius of 31meters and were super-elevated to 2.4%. The west leg of the involved arterial had two westbound lanes divided from four eastbound lanes by a raised grass median. The speed limit for both vehicles was 48 kmph (30 mph). The crash occurred on a weekend in the early afternoon under daylight, and dry conditions.
V1 was a Mack tractor pulling a fuel tanker trailer that was forty two feet (thirteen meters) long and traveling in lane one of the ramp preparing to turn right when it swung wide to its left departing lane one and entering lane two, then coming back into lane one to its (V1's) right where the right side of its trailer contacted the left side of V2. V2 was a 2007 Saturn Ion3 traveling in lane one of the ramp originally traveling behind V1. As V1 swung wide left V2 proceeded to pass V1 on the right (blind side) when its left side was struck. V2 then went to its right coming to rest on the right road edge facing west in lane one of the arterial. The driver of V1 reported feeling a "bump" and then he pulled over into lane one of the arterial in front of V2. V2 was towed from the scene. V1 was driven away. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1 was driven by a belted fifty four year old male who was not injured in the crash. He had an empty trailer and was on his way to get a load at the time of the crash. The driver of V1 stated that he had been driving a "big truck" for thirty-five years without an accident or a ticket.
V2 was driven by a sixty-one year old belted male who was uninjured in the crash as was his sixty-year old female passenger in the right front position. They were on their way to the store at the time of the crash.