The crash occurred in the intersection of four-intersecting roadways. There were four lanes running eastbound with lane four being a left turn only lane and separating the westbound lanes with a concrete curbed median. There were four lanes running westbound with lane four being a left turn only lane. The north/south roadway had three lanes; with lane three being a left turn only lane and two lanes running south. A traffic control light controlled all roadways. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekday afternoon at rush hour. The roadway was straight and level and the posted speed was 64 kmph (40 mph).
V1 was a 1997 Ford F-350 Work truck that was driven by a 25-year-old male on his way back to the office from a work site. The driver was traveling eastbound in lane one when he approached the intersection and the light turned from yellow to red and he was unable to stop in time for the traffic light. V2 was a 1999 Toyota that was turning left traveling westbound from the north/south roadway when the 55-year-old driver was hit on the left side, then V1 and V2 side slapped pushing V2 clockwise till he made final rest facing a northeast direction. The driver of V1 then traveled northbound and hit V3, a 2005 Volvo that was stopped in lane four waiting to make a left turn. The drivers of V1 and V2 were transported to the hospital with injuries and V1, V2, and V3 were all towed due to damages. V1 was cited for failure to stop at a traffic control device as two witnesses on scene witnessed V1 run a red light and he was cited for no proof of insurance. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.
V1 was driven by a 25-year-old male who was in his work truck on his way to his office when he stated that he saw the light change from yellow to red but was unable to stop in time due to the cargo and heaviness of the truck. He stated he tried to turn the wheel to the left and hit the brakes but still hit V2 and after he hit V2 he stated that his vehicle lost control and headed straight into V3 who was stopped waiting to turn left. He suffered chest and neck injuries.
V2 was driven by a 55-year-old male who was attempting to make a left hand turn from the northbound lane three. The driver stated he had a green arrow and approached the intersection when he was t-boned and pushed clockwise till he made final rest. He stated there was nothing he could have done differently to avoid the crash. The driver had to be cut out of the vehicle with the Jaws of Life and suffered cuts and bruises. He was transported to a local hospital with injuries.
V3 was driven by a 39-year-old woman on her way home from work. She was in lane four traveling westbound and was stopped in the left turn lane when she said a white truck just came at her head on. She stated she had people on both sides of her and could do nothing to avoid getting hit. She was not injured but her vehicle was towed due to damages. She stated that she was at the wrong place at the wrong time. She witnessed V1 run the red light and hit V2.