This two-vehicle crash occurred in the afternoon of a weekend on a two-lane rural roadway. The bituminous roadway is flat, has a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph) and has curve near the location of this crash. The atmospheric conditions were clear, dry, and sunny.
V1, a 2006 Chevrolet Monte Carlo with three occupants, was southbound negotiating a curve to the right. V2, a 1995 Cadillac Fleetwood with two occupants, was northbound intending to go straight. V1 rounded the curve and entered the northbound lane, which caused V2 to steer into the southbound lane. V1 steered back into the southbound lane and the two vehicles crashed head-on. Both vehicles were towed due to damage and all the occupants from both cars were transported to the hospital. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1 is a 31-year-old female that left her home this afternoon with her friend and were traveling to a festival when they were involved in this crash. This driver states that her friend's child was in the back seat screaming for a toy that was on the floor and his mother was shouting back at the child. This driver said she had enough of the arguing so she turned around, picked up the toy and gave it to the child. As she was turned backward, she drove into the opposite lane and that is when her right front passenger yelled that she was in the wrong lane. She immediately steered back into her original lane and slammed on the brake pedal when she saw V2 heading directly at her. She said it was, "like looking into a mirror" as the two vehicles approached each other and crashed head-on.
The driver of V2 is a 62-year-old male that was driving with his wife to the store today when they were involved in this crash. When this driver saw V1 swerve into his lane he swerved into the southbound lane. This driver thought there was a ditch to his right and that the "lesser of two evils" was to try and steer around the Monte Carlo by driving in the southbound lane. As soon as this driver drove into the southbound lane, the Monte Carlo swerved back into its original lane and the two vehicles collided head-on.