A two-vehicle daytime collision occurred on a six-lane two-way road with a two-way left turn center lane. The north/south roadway is straight and level and paved with asphalt. There is a driveway on the west side of the roadway leading to a parking lot. The speed limit for both vehicles is 56 kmph (35 mph). At the time of the crash the sky was clear. There was early morning rush hour traffic.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Subaru Legacy wagon with only a driver and a dog, was traveling north in lane three. V1 proceeded and stopped into the two-way center left turn lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Mercedes Benz station wagon, was occupied with only a driver and was traveling south in lane one. V1 began her left turn after vehicles in lanes two and three stopped to let her through. One of the drivers in the stopped vehicles motioned for the driver of V1 to proceed with the turn. As V1 entered lane one the front of the vehicle stuck the left side of V2, causing V2 to depart the roadway to the left. V2 impacted a street sign, breaking it away from its location and then impacted a fence where it came to a stop mid way through the chain linked fence. V1 spun counter-clock wise coming to rest facing south in lane one of the southbound lanes. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Neither driver was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 was a 27-year old female who reported non-disabling injuries due to the crash. The driver had been stopped in the two way left turn lane for over 10 seconds waiting for oncoming traffic to clear. The driver stated that the vehicles in lanes two and three had stopped to let her make her turn and that she assumed that lane one was clear when one of the drivers motioned for the driver of V1 to proceed with the left turn. The driver is familiar with the vehicle and drives the route daily. The driver assumed that lane one was also clear when she completed her turn. The stopped vehicles obstructed her view of V2.
The driver of V2 was a 55-year old male who reported non-disabling injuries due to the crash. The driver stated he that the roads were congested due to the morning commuters and that he noticed the other two lanes slowing. He did not see V1 turning so he had no time to react.