This three vehicle-crash happened on a weekday during early morning daylight hours. The location was a five lane (southbound) divided (with a positive barrier) straight asphalt roadway. It was a downhill (slope unknown) highway. The weather was clear and the roads dry. The posted speed limit for the roadway was 96 kph (60 mph). The morning rush hour was over and there was medium traffic on the roadways.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Chevrolet Cavalier, with one occupant, was traveling south in the third lane of the roadway. Vehicle two (V2) a 2001 Buick Century with one occupant was traveling south in lane five. An unidentified vehicle three (V3) was traveling south in lane two of the highway. An unidentified truck changed from lane two into lane three, ahead of V1. V1 successfully avoided the possible collision by steering to the left. V1 started to rotated counter clockwise, crossed lanes four and five, drove off the road to the left, and impacted the median concrete barrier with its front. V1 bounced off the median, rotated counter clockwise and re entered the southbound travel lanes, facing north. The front left corner of V2 impacted the left side of V1. V1 kept rotating counter clockwise and impacted the median barrier again with its right rear corner. V1 came to rest in lane five, facing northwest. V2 continued to travel southbound in lane five. A left side wheel/tire of V3 impacted the right rear quarter panel on V2. V3 did not stop and continued to drive south. V2 came to rest in lane five, facing south. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene. V3 did not stop and drove from the scene unidentified. No injuries were reported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
A 22-year old female was the driver of V 1. She does not have a valid driver's license, but said she had had basic driver's education at her high school in her native country. She was heading to work from home, using her brother's vehicle on a daily basis. She is in good health and does not take any medication. She stated someone cut into her lane from her right. She did not see this vehicle before, neither in her mirrors coming from behind her nor while driving ahead of her.
A 37-year old male was the driver of V2, the 2001 Buick Century. He stated he did not see what happened until V1 entered his lane in an out of control movement. He was heading home after he took his nephew to a nearby college campus. He was on his day off. He was well rested, does not take medication and is in good health. He possesses a valid drivers license and is familiar with his vehicle. He rarely drives on this roadway.