The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a high occupancy, high volume, and high-speed interstate highway. There were five lanes running northbound with both right and left side paved emergency shoulders. There were concrete wall barriers separating the southbound traffic. The road widths were a standard 3.7 meters and the emergency-paved shoulders were 3.5 meters. The road was curved to the right and was level. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekday night. The posted speed was a 105 KPH (65 MPH).
V1 was a 2000 Ford Focus that was traveling southbound in lane five, the HOV lane. The traffic had come to a stop due to a construction site causing the traffic to back up. V1 tried to hit the brakes but they locked up and V1 skidded into the back of V2, a 2003 Lexus that was slowing down in front of V1. V2, then got pushed into V3, a 1996 Honda Accord, and V3 hit the back of V4, a 2003 Nissan Sentra, that was stopped for the congested traffic. V1 and V3 were towed due to damage and no one was injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.
V1 was driven by a 20-year-old woman who was on her way from home to her boyfriend's house for dinner. She stated that she was traveling in the far left lane (lane 5) and the traffic just suddenly came to a dead stop. She stated that she hit the brakes as hard as she could but her vehicle skidded into the back of the car in front of her. She stated that she didn't understand why the traffic just stopped when it was just going 55-65 MPH. She was cited for the crash for failure to use due care.
V2 was driven by a 33-year-old male who was on his way home from work when he stated that the car in front of him slowed down for the road construction. He stated that he was slowing down and was hit from behind by the Ford. He was then forced into the Honda that was stopped in front of him. There were no associative factors related to this driver. He was not thought to have contributed to the crash.
V3 was driven by a 25-year-old male who was on his way to the mall. He stated that he saw traffic slow for the construction site and stop in his lane. He stated that he heard a loud screech and then felt a bang from behind. He was then pushed into the back of V4, who was also stopped in front of him. His vehicle was towed due to damage. He was not injured. There were no associative factors related to this driver, as he was not involved in the first harmful event.
V4 was a 2003 Nissan Sentra that was stopped in the front of V3 for the congested traffic. V4 was not involved in the first harmful event and was not coded in the critical pre-crash reason or event. V4 was not towed and the driver had no injures.