This single-vehicle crash occurred off the right side of the roadway near an urban, signal controlled, four-legged intersection. There were crosswalks, curbs, and sidewalks present for all directions. The eastbound approach was one-way traffic that consisted of four lanes, two trough lanes, one through or left lane, and one left turn only lane. The roadway was straight, level and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). Setting was dawn on a weekend. Conditions were dry with cloudy skies.
Vehicle 1 (V1), a 1994 Toyota Camry station wagon with one occupant, was eastbound in lane three. A non-contact vehicle was present in lane two. As V1 passed the witness it made an unexpected lane change to the right, causing it to end up in lane two, in front of the witness. As V1 approached the intersection, it prepared to turn left from the straight lane. As it turned left, it departed the roadway off the right side, leaving a 3.7m (12 ft.) left-front tire impression on the dirt before contacting a tree with its front plane. When VI struck the tree, it rotated slightly counterclockwise and struck a metal pole with its right side, rear plane. V1 came to final rest on the sidewalk facing north at the point of impact. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1.
The driver of V1, a 39 year-old male, suffered non-incapacitating injuries and was transported for treatment. This driver was combative, actively fighting with police and EMS personnel. He told police that he was on his was home from work, but could not specify where he worked, because he was "intoxicated" and might get in trouble. He admitted in the back of the ambulance, that he had a Valium and a glass of wine prior to beginning his trip home. He later admitted to police at the hospital that he smoked marijuana and used some cocaine. When this researcher visited the driver in person, he answered the door drinking a glass of wine. He told me he woke up approximately 12 hours after the crash, in the hospital with no recollection of how he got there. He wasn't surprised that he was combative and fought with police, he had been in several other severe crashes in the past and has been told he had been combative and uncooperative and even had to be restrained once. He was very happy that his car was totaled because it needed unspecified repairs. He did not know how he hit that tree because he was very familiar with the intersection. No other information could be obtained from the driver as he refused to answer any more questions without the approval of his attorney who could not be reached.
A witness, who was driving the non-contact vehicle, stated he looked in his rearview mirror and saw V1 approaching him in lane three at a high rate of speed. He claims V1 hit a dip in the road, throwing his vehicle to the right, and nearly colliding with him. When V1 approached the intersection with a green light, it appeared as if the driver of V1 became confused about whether to go straight or turn left. The witness never saw brakes lights come on, and at the last second V1 turned left from lane two, the straight only lane. V1 then ran off the road and struck a tree. The witness pulled over to provide assistance but noticed the driver had his hands in his pockets and appeared to be "under the influence," so he stayed his distance and waited for police. When the driver of V1 heard the emergency vehicle sirens, he tried to start his car up and flee the scene. The witness estimated V1's travel speed at 64 kmph (40 mph) but said it may have been higher. He also said that V1 turned without signaling.