This two-vehicle crash occurred in the afternoon hours on a weekend in the middle of a T-intersection. The north/south roadway upon which vehicle one was traveling, consisted of one north and one south lane and had a downhill grade for northbound traffic. The east/west roadway upon which vehicle two was traveling, consisted of one east and one west lane, had a downhill grade for eastbound traffic and was also curved to the left. The bituminous roadways were dry when the crash occurred. The only traffic signal was a stop sign for northbound vehicles. The posted speed limit was 56kmph (35mph) for all directions. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash and traffic flow was normal.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1993 Cadillac Deville, was heading north on the roadway approaching the stop sign. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Kia Sedona, was heading east on the roadway intending to continue straight through the intersection. As V1 entered the intersection, the front of V2 contacted the left front of V1. The impact caused V1 to rotate clockwise approximately 90 degrees while V2 rotated counterclockwise approximately 45 degrees. The two vehicles made contact again in what is commonly known as a side-slap. Vehicle one was then pushed off the side of the eastbound lane into a ditch where the undercarriage struck two small water pipes in the ground. Vehicle two continued forward and came to a controlled stop on the left side of the westbound lane facing east. Vehicle one was towed from the scene due to damage. Vehicle two was towed from the scene but not due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.
The driver of vehicle one, an 83 year -old woman, was not injured as a result of the crash and did not require any medical treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A complete interview was obtained from this driver, however, it should be noted that her recollection of the crash did not seem to coincide with the nature of the events. She claimed that she was not struck by vehicle two, when that was clearly what happened. She also tended to stray from the topic at hand and talk about irrelevant subjects. She knew she was taking medication, but could not remember why she was taking them. After some probing, she thought she was taking the medication for her cholesterol. The driver did say that she was stopped for about 3-4 seconds before proceeding through the intersection. She stated that she was not fatigued when beginning this leg of the trip. The driver relayed that her vehicle was in proper working condition and no mechanical problems contributed to this crash.
The driver of V2, a 34 year-old female, suffered possible injuries and complained of lower back pain as a result of the crash, and was taken to a medical facility for treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A complete interview was obtained from the driver of this vehicle, although she was advised by her lawyer not to reveal too much information. She claimed that she was intending to continue straight through the intersection and that she had noticed the other car pull out from the roadway. She tried to steer to the left but it was not enough to avoid the crash. She claimed that she rarely drives on this roadway, but it was not her first time. The driver related that she was well rested when driving this leg of the trip. She stated that she was in good health and was taking birth control as well as anti-anxiety medication. The driver claimed that there were no mechanical problems with her vehicle.