The three-vehicle crash occurred on the right shoulder of a single, eastbound collector lane separated from 2 eastbound lanes of a 4-lane interstate with a positive barrier. The straight, level, bituminous, collector has an exit ramp branching off to the right that connects to the southbound lanes of another interstate and also goes straight to another exit ramp connecting to the northbound lanes of that interstate. The collector was wet at the time of the weekday early afternoon crash and the sky was cloudy. The speed limit for the collector was 113 kmph (70 mph).
V1, a 1998 Mercury Mystique 4-door sedan solely occupied by an 80 year-old female driver, was eastbound in the collector lane described above. The driver intended to take it to a northbound exit so as to go northbound on another interstate. The collector just before that exit ramp had been closed shortly before the crash because of a leaky tanker creating a HAZMAT spill. Traffic behind the tanker had thus been trapped and was stopped. They began to back up collectively so that they could take the southbound exit. V2, a 2007 Hummer utility vehicle solely occupied by a 40 year-old female driver, had been one of those vehicles eastbound on the collector described above trapped when the road was closed. V2 had backed up and stopped partially on the right shoulder just east of the southbound exit. V3, a 1999 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan solely occupied by a 41 year-old male driver, was another vehicle eastbound on the collector lane described above just ahead of V2. V3 had also backed up planning to use the southbound exit and was still inching backward, partially on the right shoulder, when the crash occurred. V1's front left contacted V2's right rear. This pushed the front left of V2 into the rear of V3. V1 came to rest facing east-southeast in the gore separating the collector lane from the southbound exit. V2 came to rest facing east-northeast in the eastbound collector lane and V3 came to rest facing east-southeast on the right shoulder of the eastbound collector lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 stated that she was coming home from a hair appointment using the same route that she uses every week and had taken the collector lane to go straight to the northbound exit. She had slowed to between 50-60mph when the car she was 4 car lengths behind suddenly exited to the right, southbound, revealing stopped traffic in the collector lane in front of her. She braked and steered right but was unable to avoid hitting the back of V2.
The driver of V2 stated that she was working, on her way to an appointment, when she was traveling eastbound in the collector and got caught in the road closure. Cars behind her backed up to take the southbound exit and cars in front of her wanted to do the same so she did too. She came to a stop on the right shoulder and was going to call her husband to tell him about her situation. She saw V1 coming in her side view mirror but didn't think anything about it as it could go southbound or go to the left of her. She was about to make a cell phone call when her car was struck.
The driver of V3 stated that he was eastbound in the collector ahead of V2 and was in the process of inching backward, turning and looking backward through the rear window, to get to a point where he could cross over the gore and take the southbound exit. He heard a bang and then saw V2's front rise into the air and come down on the back of his car. He was working, going from one appointment to another when the crash occurred.