The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a 4-lane undivided roadway in a 4-way intersection. There were two northbound lanes and two southbound lanes. This was a straight, level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). The intersection was controlled by a traffic signal. It was afternoon on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic was flowing.
V1, a 2000 Oldsmobile Alero four-door sedan with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane two. V1 was approaching the intersection intending to turn left. V2, a 1995 Buick Century four-door sedan with two occupants, was traveling south in lane one. V2 was approaching the intersection intending to go straight. The traffic signal was solid green for both V1 and V2. The driver of V1 stated that he approached the intersection and could not see V2 due to vehicles turning left in the opposite direction. V1 proceeded to turn. The driver of V2 stated he did not see V1 until they were just about to collide. He applied the brakes but could not avoid V1. The front of V2 struck the right front of V1. V2 then departed the roadway and came to final rest off the west side of the roadway, facing south. V1 rotated counterclockwise approximately 90 degrees and came to final rest in lane one of the southbound lanes, facing south. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 was a 27-year old male. He reported no injuries and refused treatment. He stated that he had left work and was traveling to a friend's house. He stated that he did not know how long he was stopped at the intersection, but the EDR revealed that V1 did not come to a stop in the 5 seconds prior to the crash. He stated that he proceeded at between 2-16 kmph (1-10 mph) when he was struck.
The driver of V2 was a 34-year old male. He reported no injuries and refused treatment. He stated that he was taking the passenger to work. He stated that he had been traveling between 50-64 kmph (31-40 mph) prior to seeing V1. He tried to avoid V1 by applying the brakes but was unable to avoid the crash.