Case 2007-128
The crash occurred in the intersection of an east/westbound seven lane roadway with a north/southbound roadway. East of the intersection there were three lanes in each direction divided by a left turn only lane in the center. West of the intersection there were three westbound lanes and four eastbound lanes divided by a median without a positive barrier. Lane four eastbound was a left turn only lane. The north part of the intersection had two lanes in each direction. The south side of the intersection had two lanes northbound and one southbound. Lane two northbound was marked as a left turn only lane. The asphalt roadways were straight, level and dry. The posted speed limit was 72kmph/45mph for east/westbound traffic and 56kmph/35mph for north/southbound traffic. Overhanging traffic signals without pedestrian controls faced each direction of the roadway. The crash occurred on a weekend evening while traffic was moderate under clear skies. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, a 1996 Jeep Cherokee four-door SUV with three occupants was making a left turn from the westbound left turn only lane to the southbound lane. V2, a 1994 Pontiac Firebird two-door with three occupants was eastbound in lane one. V3, a 1992 Honda Civic four-door with five occupants was stopped in northbound lane two. V4, a 1999 Dodge Neon four door with three occupants was stopped in northbound lane one slightly ahead of V3. V1 turned left without a protected left turn signal, across the path of V2. V2 braked in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid contact. The front of V2 struck the right front of V1 (Event 1) causing it to rotate slightly in a counter-clockwise direction. V2 came to rest facing east in lane one approximately three meters east of impact. It had been moved prior to researcher arrival. V1 traveled southbound and its front right struck the front of V3 (Event 2). V3 did not move after impact. After striking V3, V1 continued rotating in a counter-clockwise direction and its right back corner struck the left front of V4 (Event 3). V4 did not move after impact. V1 came to rest facing northwest between northbound lanes one and two, approximately six meters southeast of the first impact. Vehicles one and two were towed from the scene.
V1, the Jeep Cherokee, was driven by an 18-year old female who was coded for possible injuries and transported to a hospital. Neither of her passengers was injured. The driver reported that she was traveling from dinner to a friend's home. She said she had stopped in the left turn lane and looked ahead and not seen anyone coming before she started to turn left. She added that she did not have a protected left turn arrow prior to turning and that she never saw V2 and thus took no evasive actions. She was not in control of V1 when it struck V3 and V4.
V2, the Pontiac Firebird, was driven by a 35-year old female who was not injured. Neither passenger was injured. The driver reported that she was returning home from a friend's house and traveling at the speed limit as she approached the intersection. She could not recall when she saw V1 but said she did have time to brake and steer left in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid impact.
V3, the Honda Civic, was driven by a 26-year old female. None of the occupants of V3 were transported although the passenger in the right back seat was coded for possible injury. The driver reported that she was stopped in her lane while heading from home to a movie. She added that she saw V1 turn into the path of V2 and the resulting impact but she was unable to take any evasive actions before being struck.
V4, the Dodge Neon, was driven by a 45-year old female. None of the occupants of V4 were injured. The driver reported that she was returning home from a trip to her parent's home and that she was stopped at the red light. She said she saw V1 stop and then turn into the path of V2. She told the researcher that she saw V1 strike both V2 and V3 before its right back corner struck her vehicle. She added that she was unable to take any evasive actions.