This two-vehicle rear-end crash occurred in the early afternoon hours on a weekday at a T-intersection. The bituminous roadway upon which both vehicles were traveling consisted of two lanes and was not physically divided. The road was dry, straight and level with a posted speed limit of 64kmph (40mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash and traffic flow was normal.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Ford Ranger, was heading north on the roadway intending to continue straight through the T-intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Hyundai Sonata, was also traveling north but was stopped at the intersection in front of V1, waiting to make a left turn. The front left of V1 contacted the back right of V2. After the initial impact, V1 continued off the right side of the road and struck a utility pole. Vehicle one came to final rest facing north on the side of the road. Vehicle two continued forward slightly before coming to final rest in the roadway facing north. Vehicle one had to be removed from the scene due to damage, while vehicle two was able to be driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a 20 year-old male, suffered possible injuries but did not require transport to a medical facility. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A complete interview was conducted with the driver of this vehicle. He stated that there were some bicyclists on the right side of the road that he was looking at. When he looked back to the roadway he noticed the other vehicle in front of him that was stopped waiting to make a left. He tried to swerve to the right to avoid the car, but still clipped it. Afterwards he continued off the right side of the road and struck a utility pole. The driver relayed that he was not fatigued, although he said he had a headache. The driver also related that he was familiar with the area and drives on the roadway weekly. He claimed that his vehicle was in good working condition prior to the crash.
The driver of V2, a 36 year-old male, was not injured and did not require any medical treatment. There was one other occupant located in the second row on the right side that did not suffer any injuries. A partial interview was conducted with this driver while on-scene. He relayed that he was stopped at the intersection waiting to make a left turn. He got clipped from behind, and then observed vehicle one strike the utility pole. Because only a partial interview could be obtained, it is uncertain, how long the driver had been driving this leg of the trip, or how familiar he was with the area. He did say that he was not fatigued.