The crash occurred on a north/south, oriented arterial, U.S. Highway where it was intersected by an east/west secondary arterial. The southbound approach to the intersection had four lanes, including a right turn (1), two through lanes (2,3), and a left-turn only (4). The southbound traffic signals were overhanging traffic lights with no pedestrian signal and no left turn arrow present. There was a southbound negative grade of 6.5%. The northbound approach had the same configuration as southbound except that signal had a left turn arrow and a positive 5.2% grade. North and southbound lanes were divided by a concrete median strip. Both approaches were straight. The east leg of the intersection (secondary arterial) was a straight, two-way, two-lane road. The speed limit for the primary arterial was 80 kmph (50 mph). Conditions at the time of the crash were dark, unlit, and dry on a weekend night.
V1 was a 1992 GMC Sierra 1500, that was traveling south on the primary road in lane four and attempted to turn left (east) on a solid green signal when it was struck on the right side near the front by the front of V2, a 1997 Honda Accord two door coupe that was traveling northbound through the intersection in lane three with a solid green signal. V2 left just over 8 meters of skid marks (longitudinal) before impacting V1. V2 came to rest facing north within a meter or two of impact. V1 came to a stop on the right side of the north leg of the intersection about 70 meters north of the crash as the driver tried to flee the scene with a broken tie-rod. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1 was driven by a belted 19 year-old male who was listed on the police report as sustaining possible injuries and was transported to an area hospital for treatment. His 16 year-old belted female passenger was uninjured. He was charged by police with DUI and underage consumption and during the interview his mom interjected that he tested (BAC) at 0.2. The researcher as yet has not received any report to substantiate that. The driver said he was on his way to drop off a girl (that according to his mom he should not have been with) and get home by curfew (would have been 20 minutes post crash).
V2 was driven by a 30 year-old belted female who along with her 7 year-old female, right front passenger and her 14 year-old female back left passenger (both similarly restrained) was transported to an area hospital for treatment of possible injuries. Both front airbags in V2 deployed. They were on their way to a friend's house after a party at D1's fathers home. The driver of V1 stated that she saw him (V1) coming but didn't think he was going to turn. She said she even had time to hit her horn when she realized he was proceeding into the intersection.