This crash occurred in the 3-way intersection of a 4-lane roadway. The north/south roadway is a four-lane undivided roadway with 2-lanes going in each direction. The westbound approach is a 3-lane roadway with two lanes going east (one being a left turn only lane and one being a right turn only lane) and one lane-continuing west. This intersection was located on a curve. This bituminous and level roadway had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred in the late morning on a weekday. The roads were dry and skies were clear. The traffic flow was moderately congested with slight stop-and-go traffic activity.
V1, 2005 BMW Z-4 convertible was traveling north in lane two intending on making a left turn at the intersection. V2, a 2000 Pontiac Montana minivan, was traveling south in lane one intending on continuing south on the left hand curve. As V1 approached the intersection, V1 slowed down awaiting a break in traffic to make the left turn. A non-contact vehicle traveling south in lane two stopped to allow V1 to make the left turn. V1 assumed that both lanes were clear and proceeded to turn. As she did so, V2 traveling in lane one was traveling straight towards V1. V2 attempted to avoid the collision by braking but was unsuccessful. V2 struck the side of V1. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the 2005 BMW Z-4, was driven by a 30 year-old female who reported possible injuries but refused medical treatment. The driver stated that as she approached the intersection a non-contact vehicle (that happened to be a minivan) stopped and waved for her to make a turn. She had difficulty seeing over the non-contact vehicle since her vehicle was so low and the other vehicle was so high but she proceeded to turn anyways. As she did, the other vehicle came down lane one and struck her vehicle.
V2, the Pontiac Montana minivan, was driven by a 27-year-old female who reported non-incapacitating injuries and was transported to a medical facility from the crash scene. No interview was provided since the address on the police report did not exist. According to the police report the driver was driving south in lane one and when she saw V1 making the left turn attempted to avoid the collision by braking but was unsuccessful and struck the side of V1.