This two-vehicle intersection crash occurred at a dry, asphalt four-way intersection that is controlled by stop signs. There are two southbound and two northbound lanes on the south side of the intersection. There is one southbound and one northbound lane on the north side of the intersection. The posted speed limit for north/southbound traffic on the north side of the intersection is posted 56 kmph (35 mph). The speed limit on the side of the intersection is posted 40 kmph (25 mph). There are two lanes for eastbound and westbound traffic that are not separated. The speed limit on this roadway is posted 40 kmph (25 mph). There are posted stop signs for east and westbound traffic. The crash occurred mid morning . The weather was clear and there were no sight line restrictions that contributed to this crash.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Toyota Tacoma pick-up with one occupant was traveling westbound through the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Kia Optima 4 door with one occupant, was traveling southbound in the number one decelerating through the intersection. V1 failed to stop for the stop sign and entered the intersection. V1 crossed the path of V2 and was struck on the right side by the front of V2. The impact forced V1 to rotate clockwise and travel through the intersection in a southwesterly direction. V1 tripped on its left tires and rolled over to its left. V1 struck a stop/street sign and a curb before coming to rest on its top. V2 skidded for approximately 4 meters (13 feet) before it struck V1. The impact directed V2 to rotate clockwise and coming to rest in the intersection facing in a southwesterly direction. Both vehicles were equipped with first row airbags that did not deploy. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.
A thirty two (32) year-old male drove V1. He said that he was traveling westbound and did not see the stop sign. He said that this is the first time that he has been on this road. As he passed through the intersection, he thinks that he might have looked to his left for a brief second but did not know. He said that he never saw the other car coming. He does not live here and was here for a court appointment later that afternoon. He said that he was just driving around to kill some time before he went to court. He had left his hometown about 3 hours ago and had been driving since. He also said that he was not tired and felt fine just prior to he crash. The driver said that he was thinking about court today and what might happen. The driver is in good health, does not take any medication and has no vision problems. The driver had approximately 8 hours of sleep the night before and had been awake for about 3 ½ hours before the crash. The driving sustained a laceration to his left arm.
A twenty six (26) year-old male drove V2. He said that he was traveling southbound in the number one lane and began to decelerate as he approached the intersection. He said that he is familiar with this road and knows that it changes to one lane and the speed limit changes on the opposite side of the intersection. He said that when he was about 6 meters (20 feet) away from the intersection, he saw V1 run the stop sign. He said that he hit his brakes and was not able to stop in time. He said that he was running late to pickup his wife at work and his daughter for her birthday party. He said that his wife got off work approximately 25 minutes before he got into the crash. He said that he was thinking about his daughter's birthday party before the crash. The driver is unemployed and got approximately 8 hours of sleep the night before. The driver had been awake for approximately 2 ½ hours before the crash. The driver is also unemployed. There were no injuries sustained by this driver.