The crash occurred in lane two of a four lane westbound divided highway, including one left turn lane. The posted speed was 89 kmph (55 mph) with a posted advisory speed of 72 kmph (45 mph) due to construction. This was a straight, level, dry, bituminous road; the sky was clear but dark during the early morning commuting hours on a weekday. Commuter traffic was heavy at this portion of the highway with connecting interstate entrances and exits. There was a traffic signal 610 meters west of the crash site affecting the vehicles in the left turn lane. The traffic in the left turn lane was backed up past the crash site from the intersection. The intersection was located 610 meters west of the crash site.
V1, a 1997 Ford F-series Super Duty truck was traveling west in lane two. V2 a 2007 Ford Edge four-door SUV was traveling west in lane three ahead of V1. V3, a 2004 Chevrolet Astro E-250 cargo van was traveling west in lane four ahead of V2. V4, a 2007 Nissan Altama four-door sedan was traveling west in lane four ahead of V3. V5, a 2002 Ford F6S extended cab panel truck was traveling west in lane four ahead of V4. V2 in an attempt to avoid hitting a car that came into her lane braked and steered right. The front of V1 contacted the back of V2. V2 then veered off to the left and contacted the right sides of V3, V4 and the back of V5. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, a 1997 Ford F-Series Super Duty Medium/Heavy Pick-Up Truck with wilding cargo loaded in the truck bed was driven by a 51 year-old male traveling with a 33 year-old male co-worker. The driver stated that he had traveled about 100 miles and was half way to his job site when the crash occurred. The driver of V1 was traveling west in lane 2 at a rate of 89 kmph (55 mph) when another vehicle (V2) traveling west in lane three suddenly veered right into his lane. In an unsuccessful attempt to avoid a collision, the driver of V1 braked hard and steered right, crashing the left front of V1 into the back right side of V2. After the crash, the driver of V1 continued to travel west and returned to the crash site after circling around. Both occupants were uninjured.
V2, a 2007 Ford Edge four-door SUV vehicle was driven by a 31 year-old female traveling with her 4 year-old son. She stated that she had left home twenty-five minutes prior to the crash on her way to her son's pre-school. The driver of V2 stated that she had been traveling west in lane three at a rate of 56 kmph (35 mph) when a vehicle (a blue Eclipse) stopped in the left turn lane four suddenly pulled into lane three. She was able to successfully avoid a collision with the blue Mitsubishi Eclipse by braking hard and steering right, unfortunately another vehicle V1 that was traveling in lane two, must have been merging into her lane (lane three) at the same time, crashing into her vehicle. The force of the crash forced her vehicle (V2) to travel, out-of-control, forward and left across lane three crashing the front left corner of V2 into the rear and mid portion of another vehicle (V3 stopped in the left turn lane four). The force of the crash with V3 redirected V2 west, where it sideswiped another vehicle (V4, stopped in the left turn lane four) and then crashed into the right rear portion of another vehicle (V5, a Medium/heavy truck, stopped in the left turn lane four) with the front left portion of V2 before coming to rest facing west, partially occupying lanes three and four. The occupants of V2 were transported for unknown injuries.
V3, a 2004 Chevrolet Astro E-250 cargo van loaded with heating and air-conditioning equipment was driven by a 66 year-old male traveling with his 22 year-old male co-worker. The driver of V3 stated that he had been stopped in lane four, facing west, for three minutes when he heard a loud bang and then he was hit by some unknown vehicle (V2). After crashing into his vehicle (V3), the vehicle (V2) continued forward (west), sideswiping the vehicle (V4) stopped in front of him, then continued forward before coming to rest after crashing into the rear right portion of a large panel truck (V5).
V4, a2007 Nissan Altama four-door sedan was driven by a 39 year-old female. The driver of V4 stated that she had been stopped facing west in the left turn lane four for five minutes when she heard loud bangs followed by a jolt of her vehicle being sideswiped. The driver of V4 never saw V2 until after the crash. The driver was later transported for a sore arm.
V5, a 2002 Ford F6S extended cab panel truck loaded with heavy equipment was driven by a 43 year-old male traveling with four male co-workers. Although the driver of V5 only spoke Spanish, the driver of V4 was able aide the researcher by interpreting the driver's statement of events. The driver of V5 stated that he had been stopped in the left turn lane four for five minutes when he heard loud noises followed by his vehicle jolting forward slightly. The driver of V5 never saw V2 prior to the crash. The occupants of V5 were uninjured.