Case 2007-154
The crash occurred in a four-way intersection. There were over-hanging traffic control signals without pedestrian control for north, south and westbound traffic. East of the intersection there was a three-lane westbound exit ramp from an interstate highway. Lane one was a right turn only lane with a no right turn on red sign hanging next to the westbound signal. Lanes two and three were left turn only lanes. South of the intersection there were three northbound lanes and four southbound lanes divided by a median without a positive barrier. There was a sign prohibiting any left turns from the northbound lanes. West of the intersection was a one lane westbound entrance ramp to the interstate highway. North of the intersection there were three northbound lanes and three southbound lanes divided by a grass median without a positive barrier. Northbound lane one lead to an entrance ramp to the right for northbound traffic to enter the westbound interstate highway. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, a 1997 Honda Passport four-door SUV with one occupant was traveling southbound in lane three. V2, a 1993 Ford Crown Victoria four-door with one occupant was making a left turn from westbound lane three to southbound lane three. V3, a 1997 Jeep Cherokee Laredo four-door SUV with two occupants was stopped at a red light in northbound lane three. V2 turned left to go the same direction as V1. Neither V1 nor V2 took any evasive actions. The front left of V2 struck the left side of V1 (Event 1) causing V1 to rotate in a counter-clockwise direction as it skidded toward the southeast. The front left of V1 then struck the left rear of V3 about 15m southeast of the first impact(Event 2) causing it to rotate slightly in a counter-clockwise direction. V1 then jumped the east curb and came to rest facing east on a grass embankment, with a 25% slope, east of the roadway and about 28m southeast of the first impact. V2 came to rest about 11m southwest of the first impact point facing south in southbound lane one. V3 came to rest facing northwest straddling northbound lanes two and three within a meter of the second impact point. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage.
V1, the Honda Passport, was driven by a 37-year old female who was coded for possible injury and transported to a hospital. She reported that she had just left a doctor's office returning to her home and was traveling at the speed limit. She added that she thought she had a green light and that it changed red while she was under it. She said that she did not have time to respond when she noticed V2 about to strike her vehicle. She thought she blacked out at the first impact and recalled coming to rest on the embankment off the roadway.
V2, the ford Crown Victoria, was driven by a 22-year old male who was not injured. He reported that he had been stopped for over a minute in westbound lane three waiting to turn left while traveling from home to a job interview. He stated that, when the traffic signal turned green for him, he looked but did not see any vehicles approaching, so he initiated his left run. He added that before he could complete his turn he struck V1 without ever having seen it.
V3, the Jeep Cherokee, was driven by a 45-year old male who was not injured. He reported that he had been stopped northbound lane three for a red light as he was returning to his office from a job site. He said he watched (with an unobstructed view) as V2 turned left and struck V1, which he thought had run a red light. He added that other westbound vehicles had also proceeded indicating to him that they had a green light. He said that after V1 was struck it came toward his vehicle and that he had no where to go before V1 struck his vehicle.