The crash occurred in the center of a "T" intersection composed of a two-lane north/southbound roadway, and a two-lane east/westbound roadway. All roadways were bituminous and level, with posted speed limits of 40 kmph (25 mph). A Stop Sign controlled the southbound traffic. It was morning on a weekday. The roads were dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was moderate, but congested due rush hour traffic. Field of view facing east was obscured by sun glare.
V1, a 1995 Buick Century with one occupant, was heading south stopped at the stop sign. V2, a 2003 Saturn Ion with one occupant, was traveling west. When V1 attempted to turn left at the intersection after observing the stop sign it was struck by V2 on the right side. As V2 crossed the centerline V1 hit the back of V2. V2's front then struck V3, a 2004 Hyundai Santa Fe with one occupant, on the left side as it traveled east. V2 attempted to avoid the collision by applying her brakes. No other avoidance maneuvers were attempted. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, driven by an 18-year-old male who reported no injuries, stated that he stopped at the stop sign and was waiting to turn left. He looked left, but his field of view was obscured by sun glare and he did not see V2. V1 then attempted to make the left turn and struck V2 on the right side on both the front and rear quarter panels. V1 made no avoidance maneuver.
The Driver of V2, a 48-year-old female, reported a complaint of pain and was transported. Driver stated that she was approaching the intersection when her cell phone rang and she had glanced down to see who was calling. When she looked up again she was entering the intersection and V1 attempted to make a left and struck her, forcing her across the centerline. She then struck V3 before coming to rest. V2 applied her brakes and in an attempt to avoid V1 and V3.
V3, driven by a 50-year-old female who reported a no injuries, stated that she was stopped in traffic going east, when V1 attempted to make a left turn, striking V2 and forcing V2 into her vehicle. V1 made no avoidance maneuver.