The crash occurred in the intersection of a one-way, two-lane roadway and a two-way, two-lane roadway. The one-way roadway was divided by a broken white stripe. The two-way roadway was not divided. The one-way roadway was northbound and was straight and level. It had a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The two-way roadway ran east/west and was also straight and level. It had a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The east/west roadway was controlled by stop signs, while the one-way northbound roadway had no traffic control device. It was early evening on a weekday and the bituminous roadway was dry and the weather was clear.
V1, a 1995 Ford Explorer utility vehicle driven by a 19 year-old male, was traveling eastbound. V1 entered the intersection and was struck on the right side of the vehicle by the front of V2, which had been traveling north in the first lane of travel. V1 rotated clockwise approximately ninety degrees before coming to final rest in the first northbound lane facing south. The driver of V1 had no injuries and refused medical treatment. V1 was towed due to damage to a tow yard. The tow yard would not allow inspection of the vehicle without the owner's consent. By the time the driver was located, the vehicle had been removed from the tow yard and was sold. The driver would not provide any other information regarding the vehicle and when requested to be interviewed regarding the crash, he hung up the phone. It should be noted that the driver of V1 was cited for not having a driver's license and failure to stop at a traffic control device. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.
V2, a 1998 Ford Contour 4-door sedan driven by a 35 year-old male, was traveling northbound. V2 entered the intersection and the front of V2 made contact with the right side of V1. V2 came to final rest in the northbound travel lane. The driver of V2 claimed to have knee pain due to the crash but refused medical treatment at the scene. The vehicle was towed to the same tow yard as V1. The tow yard would not allow inspection without the owner's consent. The driver of V2 was unable to be contacted after numerous attempts via phone.