Case Summary 2007-43-178
This single vehicle rollover crash occurred on a rural four-lane highway divided by a grass median with no positive barriers present. This was a wet bituminous roadway with a coefficient of friction around .50. Westbound approach has a hillcrest profile, with control loss occurring on the downhill side of it. The right side of the roadway contained a negatively sloped grassy area with a ditch 13.0 meters (43 feet) from the roadway that meets the roadside for drainage control. The posted speed limit is 88 kph (55 mph). Setting was early afternoon hours on a weekday. Conditions were cloudy with a heavy rain present. Traffic flow was light. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1.
V1 is a 1994 Ford Ranger, regular cab pickup with one occupant traveling westbound in lane one. V1 approached a NCV in its lane traveling at a slower steady speed. V1 changed lanes to the left, passed the NCV, and then attempted to change lanes back to the right. As V1 was changing lanes, it lost control on the wet roadway and departed the right side of the road. Once on the wet grass, V1 steered left and braked in an attempt to regain control, but started rotating counterclockwise through the wet grass leaving 77 meters (252 feet) of tire impressions. V1 rotated 90 degrees when it encountered a large, ditch approximately 1.8 meters (6 feet) deep. The right, rear of V1 dropped down into the ditch, while the front-end remained at street level. The right, rear of V1 then contacted the opposite side of the ditch (Event 1), causing the body to violently twist and initiate a right-axis trip-over (Event 2). During the rollover, V1 contacted three small trees (Event 2, 3, 4). It is unknown which plane contacted the trees due to overlapping damage caused by the rollover. Half way through the rollover, approximately 30 meters (98 feet) or 6-quarter turns, V1's roll changed from right side leading to a left-side leading roll. Once V1's roll changed direction, it continued to travel an additional 30 meters (98 feet) and came to final rest facing north along the grass roadside. During the rollover sequence, V1 also left several large gouge marks in the ground and spilled the unsecured cargo from the pickup bed.
The driver of V1 is a 36 year-old male who was transported from the scene with life-threatening injuries. He was ejected from his vehicle during the rollover sequence coming to rest near final rest of his truck. He is the general manager of a local bread company. He was on his way to work and didn't report being late or in a hurry. He also didn't report anything upsetting on his mind prior to impact. He was unable to recall post crash events, but says he was in lane one traveling at an unknown speed. He passed a car in front of him, and then tried to change lanes back to the right. He says control lose occurred while trying to change lanes back to the right. Once he departed the road, he steered left and braked, but because it was so wet, his vehicle could not be controlled and continued on a straight path. He remembers his truck starting to rollover, but lost memory of events afterwards. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling damage.