This two-vehicle crash occurred in the early afternoon hours of a weekday in the middle of a four-way intersection. The east/west roadway upon which both vehicles were traveling consisted of four lanes, two in each direction. The bituminous roadway was wet and level. The eastbound lanes had a slight insignificant curve to the right, while the westbound roadway was straight. The north/south roadways were entrances into private property (a business on the north end, and a retirement community on the south end), which were physically divided by flowerbeds. The entire intersection was controlled by traffic lights. The posted speed limit on the east/west roadway was 72kmph (45mph). There were no traffic flow problems when the crash occurred.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Mercury Sable station wagon, was heading west on the roadway in lane two, intending to make a left into the retirement community. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Chrysler Town and Country minivan, was heading east on the roadway in lane two, intending to continue straight through the intersection. The left front of V2 contacted the right front side of V1. The impact caused V1 to rotate counterclockwise approximately 45 degrees before coming to final rest in the middle of the eastbound lanes of the intersection. Vehicle two veered off to the right side of the roadway coming to final rest near the southeast corner of the intersection. Vehicle one was able to be driven from the scene and was moved into the parking lot of its original destination, the retirement community. Vehicle two had to be removed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a 55 year-old female, was not injured as a result of the crash and did not require any medical treatment. There was one other occupant located in the front right passenger seat of the vehicle that suffered unknown injuries and was taken to a medical facility for treatment. A complete interview was obtained from the driver of this vehicle. She related that as she was waiting to make a left at the intersection from lane two, there was also another vehicle stopped in the opposite direction waiting to make a left at the intersection. She said that V2, who was originally traveling in lane two, had changed lanes and went around the stopped vehicle and attempted to pass through the intersection. Because the stopped, non-contact vehicle had prevented this driver from noticing V2 coming around it, she proceeded to make a left at the intersection. By the time she had observed V2 coming through the intersection it was too late and their vehicles collided. The driver relayed that she had just had lunch with her passenger and was returning her back to the retirement community. She stated that she was familiar with her surroundings; however, it was the first time she had driven the vehicle, which was owned by the passenger. The driver said she was in good health and takes vitamins daily.
The driver of V2, a 28 year-old female, suffered unknown injuries as a result of the crash, but did not require transport to a medical facility. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. Under the advice of her lawyer, an interview with the driver of this vehicle could not be obtained. For this reason, it was uncertain if any health or fatigue related factors contributed to this crash.