This two-car crash occurred in the early morning hours on a weekday at an intersection with traffic lights. The road is a four-lane divided concrete roadway from east to west. It is a four lane divided concrete roadway from north to south. The speed limit for the north-south roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). The speed limit for the east-west roadway is 64 kmph (40 mph). The road surface was dry and the weather was clear at the time of the crash. There was little traffic on the roadways. It was dark at the time but the roadway was illuminated.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Ford Focus with one occupant, was traveling west in the second lane of traffic approaching the intersection of both roadways. Vehicle two (V2), a 1991 Nissan Sentra with three occupants was traveling south in the second lane. At the intersection, the front of V2 impacted the right side of V1. V1 rotated clockwise, departed the road to its left and entered the median of the westbound lanes. The back left wheel struck the median curb and the left side impacted the concrete base of a utility pole before the vehicle rolled to the left four-quarter turns. (The light pole had been removed from the concrete base prior to the crash.) V1 came to rest on the median, facing north. After the first impact, V2 rotated clockwise and came to rest within the westbound lanes, facing south. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. The driver and one occupant of V2 were briefly treated at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
A 16-year old male drove V1, the 2001 Ford Focus. According to his own account, he was traveling over the speed limit at 80 kmph (50 mph). He was heading from his home to his swim practice at his high school as he does every day. He stated that his practice started earlier than usual. He got up ten minutes before he left his residence. The driver possesses a valid driver's license. He was prohibited from driving after midnight.
A 35-year old male drove V2, the 1991 Nissan Sentra. He stated he was in the second lane, approaching the intersection at a normal rate of speed.
He was sure he had a green light at the intersection. He was heading to work together with two of his co-workers. He picked up the co-workers from their apartments located north of the intersection. He was in no hurry and familiar with the area.