This one-vehicle crash occurred during the late-morning hours of a weekend. The collision took place on an urban roadway near an adjoining "T" intersection. The roadway (northbound) was a wide, one lane, and one-way street. It had a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The surface type for the roadway was that of bituminous asphalt. The roadway was flat, dry, and had a slightly positive grade; there was no indication of any physical damage. Weather conditions were mainly sunny with partial breaks in the clouds. There was also a four-way intersection leading up to the scene of initial impact.
Vehicle one, a 2002 Dodge Ram 1500 Quad Cab pickup truck, was originally traveling northbound "at (an) extremely high rate of speed" in lane one of the roadway. According to the police report, V1 disregarded a red traffic light and proceeded onto a one-way street, into oncoming traffic. In an attempt to avoid another vehicle, V1 departed the roadway (right side) and the front of V1 struck a telephone pole, breaking the pole in two separate places. V1 rotated clockwise around the pole and began to roll over to the left, immediately vaulting over onto the left side of the roof. V1 proceeded to roll onto its right side, at which point, it began to slide, skidding across an intersecting roadway and onto private property where the back of V1 struck a breakaway pole. V1 continued skidding and V1 struck the corner of a residential building with its rear bumper. After this impact, V1 slid to final rest on the sidewalk (on its right side). Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
The driver of V1 had to be extricated out the vehicle, and was transported to a nearby hospital with moderate injuries. The vehicle suffered major/disabling damages and was towed away from the accident scene. No airbags in the vehicle deployed. The exact travel speed of V1 was unknown. The vehicle also had a cargo holder in the bed of the pickup. The contents/weight were unknown.
The driver of V1, a 31 year-old male, was later arrested for operating a motor vehicle under the influence of drugs and alcohol. No blood/alcohol test results were available. An interview could not be conducted as the driver was in jail awaiting trial. No other details were obtained from the driver of V1.