This two-vehicle crash occurred in an off-set, four-leg, driveway related roadway. On the south side of the roadway is a two-lane driveway with one lane in each direction. On the north side of the roadway is a two-lane driveway with one lane in each direction. Both driveways are straight, downhill and bituminous with no speed limit sign observed. On the east/west primary roadway, the posted speed limit is 64 kmph (40 mph). Neither driveway nor the primary roadway had traffic controls. This crash occurred during daylight hours with lunchtime traffic congestion.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Ford Crown Victoria four-door with two occupants, was northbound in lane one turning left to go westbound. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Dodge Ram two-door extended cab pickup with two occupants, was southbound turning left to go eastbound. V1 was stopped for three to four seconds and proceeded with the left turn. V2 also stopped for three to four seconds and proceeded with the left turn. V2 entered the right/left turn lane first and V1 followed. V1's front impacted V2's left side. V1 came to rest on its wheels in the westbound parking lane next to the west end of the southbound driveway facing northwest. V2, after the impact, came to rest on its wheels facing east in the number two eastbound lane. V1 was towed from the scene and V2's tire was changed and was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1 was an eighty-two year old female and her right front passenger had just dropped off her husband at the grocery store and were heading back home. She is retired and was well rested, drives this roadway every other day and was very familiar with the vehicle. She has high blood pressure and takes an unknown high blood pressure pill along with vitamins everyday. She is near-sighted and was wearing her glasses at the time.
The driver of V2, a fifty-one year old male, was leaving the park after having lunch with his wife and was heading back to work. He was well rested, drives this roadway monthly and was very familiar with the vehicle. He takes a multi-vitamin everyday and is in good health. This driver stated that he had already arrived in the two-way center left turn lane when V1 began her turn. He was unable to take any avoidance actions.