This two-vehicle crash occurred during the early evening hours .The location is a four-way intersection in a residential area. It was dark, but street lights were present. The weather was cloudy and the roadway was wet from moisture. The north/south roadway is a two lane, undivided, two way bituminous residential street with a stop sign for northbound traffic at the intersection. The east/west roadway is a three lane, two way, undivided arterial with a center left turn only lane and bike lanes on both sides. There was an overhead flashing traffic signal in the middle of the intersection, which was flashing amber for east/west traffic and flashing red for north/south traffic. The posted speed limit for westbound traffic was 56 kmph (35 mph) and for northbound traffic it was 48 kmph (30 mph). Traffic was light and there were no witnesses to this crash.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1990 Honda Prelude 2 door coupe (stolen vehicle) driven by a twenty three (23) year old male, was traveling northbound at a high rate of speed and was being pursued by a police vehicle. The driver of V1 stated that when he saw the flashing red light he down shifted and slammed on the brakes. He also stated he was familiar with the roadway and traveled it daily. V1 entered the intersection without stopping for the stop sign and was struck on the right side by Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Audi A4 station wagon. driven by a fifty three year old male. On impact the driver of V1 lost control and the vehicle went into a counter-clockwise yaw, struck the curb north of the intersection on the west side, continued northbound completing a 360 degree rotation and came to rest facing north in the southbound lane approximately 57 meters (187 feet) north of the intersection. The driver of V1 fled the scene on foot and was later apprehended by the police. V1 was towed due to damage. V2 was traveling westbound approaching the four-way intersection. As V2 entered the intersection V1 appeared in front of V2 from the drivers left. The driver of V2 was unable to react and struck V1 on the right side rear. On impact V2 rotated clockwise 180 degrees and came to rest facing east with the rear wheel up on the sidewalk. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.