This three-vehicle crash occurred at a rural, four-legged intersection. All four legs are two-lane, two-way with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). Eastbound and westbound approaches are straight and level. Southbound approach is straight with a slight downhill grade. There are negatively sloped grass roadsides bordering all roadways. North/south traffic is controlled by stop signs and there were no stop lines present. Setting was morning hours on a weekday. Conditions were dawn, clear and dry. Traffic was moderate due to the morning rush hour.
V1 is a 2002 Saturn SL, four-door with two occupants traveling eastbound in lane one. V2 is a 2003 Toyota 4 Runner, utility with one occupant traveling westbound in lane one. V3 is a 1999 Ford Taurus, four-door with two occupants stopped southbound in lane one, at the stop sign. V1 approached the intersection with the intent of turning left. V1 slowed down in its lane waiting for a break in westbound traffic. V1 turned left in front of V2. The front plane of V2 contacted the front, right corner of V1 (Event 1). The impact caused V1 to rotate counterclockwise 180 degrees. As V1 was rotating, the right, rear contacted the left, passenger door of V2, leaving a scuff mark (Event 2). V2 veered right after impact and its front plane contacted the left plane of V3, who was stopped (Event 3). V1 traveled 15.3 meters (50 feet) after impact coming to rest on the north dirt shoulder facing west. V2 traveled 7.4 meters (24 feet) coming to rest facing northwest against V3. V3 was pushed laterally during impact and came to final rest facing west. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1 is a 37 year-old female who suffered numerous traumatic injuries requiring transport. She tells me that her and her husband had spent the night at their elderly mother's house the night before, as they do several times per week. She woke up feeling well rested, grabbed a mug of coffee and was going to drop her husband off at home, then go to work. She was ahead of schedule that day and not in a hurry. She approached the 4-way intersection with the intention of turning left. Due to oncoming traffic, she came to a stop in the road for 3-4 seconds. She let at least one car pass, then all of a sudden her air bags were deploying and there was coffee everywhere. She doesn't remember initiating a left turn, neither does her husband, but she says due to the damage she observed at the tow yard, it was obvious she must have turned in front of V2, causing the crash. She couldn't recall if V2 had its headlights on because she never saw him coming. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling right side damage.
The driver of V2 is a 60 year-old male who suffered minor injuries in this crash, not requiring transport. He is retired but working 25 hours per week at a temp job at this time. He reports leaving his home about 15 minutes prior to the crash and stopping for a hot coffee along the way. As he was driving straight at 80 kmph (50 mph) in lane one, he reported listening to the morning radio and holding his coffee in his right hand. He says the intersection was crowded with vehicles stopped at the stop signs on both the north and south legs of the road. As he approached the intersection, V1 unexpectedly turned left from the opposing direction in front of him. It happened so fast that all he could do was hit the brakes and hope for the best. His vehicle contacted the right side of V1 in the intersection. He then traveled toward the right and struck a car that he guessed was stopped waiting to turn right. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.
The driver of V3 is a 44 year-old male who was not injured in this crash. He tells me he left his home about 15 minutes before the crash. He was going to drop his 12 year-old son off at school, then head to work. He reported approaching the stop sign and waiting there for less than a minute as traffic in front of him proceeded. He was now first in line at the stop sign and had the intention of crossing over the intersection and traveling straight. He said prior to the crash, he was having a family matter conversation with his son. He said he was checking traffic left and right, when he witnessed V1 turn left in front of V2. Immediately after impact, V2 struck the left side of his vehicle. When questioned, he said V1 had its headlights on and V2 did not have its headlights on. He also claimed the crash occurred during dawn hours and it was still dark enough to warrant the use of headlights. His vehicle was towed from the scene with non-disabling damage.