The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a two-way, ten-lane interstate roadway, which was physically divided by a concrete traffic barrier. There were five northbound lanes, with a posted speed of 105 kmph (65 mph). This was a straight, level, asphalt roadway. Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.
V1, a 1998 Toyota Tacoma with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane five (HOV lane). V2, a 2003 GMC Envoy with one occupant, was traveling behind V1, also in lane five. V1 experienced a sudden blowout of the left rear tire. Witnessing the event, V2 changed lanes to the right in order to avoid V1. V1's back end veered to the right. The right rear of V1 made contact with the left front of V2. After impact, V1 began to travel northwest toward the concrete barrier wall, rotating counterclockwise. The front of V1 made contact with the concrete barrier. V1 continued to rotate, coming to final rest facing southeast in the emergency shoulder. V2 came to a controlled final rest in the emergency shoulder. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.
V1, the Toyota Tacoma, was driven by a 24-year old male, who was treated on-scene for his injuries. He stated that he was on his way home from school, when his left rear tire blew out. The motorist indicated that he attempted to steer his truck to the left, onto the emergency shoulder. According to the driver, the vehicle did not respond to the steering inputs. Instead, the back end of the vehicle began to drift to the right, making contact with V2. The driver said that after impact, the front end of his truck careened into the barrier wall.
V2, the GMC Envoy, was driven by a 48-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he was on his way home from work, traveling northbound on the interstate in the HOV lane, behind the Toyota, when he witnessed the other vehicle's left rear tire suddenly blow out. The driver's first instinct was to slow down. Assuming the other driver was going to pull onto the inside shoulder, the motorist decided to change lanes to the right, accelerating past the truck. As he did so, the driver noticed V1 drifting into his travel lane, striking the front left side of his vehicle. The driver said he then pulled over onto the left shoulder.