This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-leg intersection where all traffic is controlled by stop signs. On the east side of the intersection, the roadway is two way, two lane divided with a painted median. On approach to the intersection, the westbound lane widens to two westbound lanes with a solid white line for a lane line. There are no lane line markings or signs designating lane two as a left turn lane. It is bituminous, straight and uphill with a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). East of the intersection, the roadway is 12.5 meters (42 feet) wide and west of the intersection the roadway is 10.3 meters (34 feet) wide. South of the intersection, it is a two way, two lane undivided roadway. For northbound traffic approaching the intersection, the traffic lane is 4.5 meters (15 feet) wide and widens to 6.6 meters (22 feet) at the intersection. There is no lane line marking and a centerline marking consists of solid double yellow lines. It is bituminous, straight and uphill with a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). It was cloudy and this crash occurred during early evening hours with moderate traffic.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Ford Mustang with one occupant was westbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Ford Crown Victoria with one occupant was northbound in lane two. Both drivers stopped at the intersection and both drivers stated there was a non-contact SUV in westbound lane two that was stopped at the intersection. Both drivers assumed this non-contact vehicle was going to turn left since both drivers assumed lane two was a left turn lane only. As the non-contact vehicle accelerated to go straight across the intersection, V1 also proceeded to go straight but stopped to let the non-contact vehicle proceed since the road narrows west of the intersection. V1 started to accelerate when the driver of V2 failed to detect V1 in the intersection. The front of V2 struck the left side of V1. V1 rotated clockwise and V2 rotated counterclockwise and both vehicles came to rest adjacent to the impact point. V1 was towed from the scene. No one was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a forty year-old female, had just dropped off her children and was going to a friend's house and drives this route rarely. She was in another crash the week before and was driving a rental vehicle, which she has had for five days. She stated she was not familiar with the vehicle since she drives an SUV herself. She did have work on her mind because of a new administrator that started that week. She has worked fifty-two hours that week and has not had a day off in fourteen days. She is in good health and has a heart murmur, but does not take medicine for it. The driver did not detect V2 prior to impact and attempted no evasive maneuvers. She was distracted by the non-contact vehicle and falsely assumed it was going to turn left since she falsely assumed this vehicle was in a left turn lane only. There was no lane marking or signs indicating a left turn only for lane two. This non-contact vehicle also blocked the view of the driver of V1 who crossed with an obstructed view. This non-contact vehicle distracted her. She rarely drives the route and was driving a rental vehicle at the time. At no time did she detect the presence of V2 pre-crash.
The driver of V2, an eighty year-old male just picked up his supper at a restaurant and was heading home to eat it. He stated he saw V1, four to five car lengths behind the non-contact SUV when he stopped. He is very familiar with his vehicle and drives this route weekly. He had cancer three years ago and it hasn't come back. He takes Actos, a multi-vitamin and Vytorin on a regular basis. He is near-sighted and was wearing his glasses.