The crash occurred on a five lane, undivided east-west bound highway that is intersected by a four lane north-south bound road. The highway has two travel lanes and a left turn lane in each direction. The intersection itself is straight, however the highway curves slightly to the north about 50m east of the intersection. The intersection is controlled by traffic signals without pedestrian controls with a posted speed of 72 kmph (45mph). The crash occurred on a weekday afternoon under cloudy skies. There had been intermittent rains.
V1, a 2000 GMC Jimmy four door SUV with one occupant stopped in the eastbound left turn lane intending to turn left to the northbound lanes. V2, a 2001 Lincoln Continental four door with one occupant was traveling westbound in lane two intending to go straight through the intersection. After stopping, V1 turned left into the path of V2. V2 entered the intersection and was struck by V1's front left on the left side. After impact V1 completed the turn and came to rest facing north near the curb of lane one of the northbound road. V2 veered to the right and came to rest facing west at curbside of lane one of the westbound road. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1 was driven by a 64-year old female who was transported to a local hospital by POV with non-incapacitating injuries. The driver reported that she was on her way to work from home. She advised that when she approached the intersection in the left turn lane she stopped for about two seconds and saw that she had a green left turn arrow. The driver commenced her turn and claimed that she never saw V2 prior to striking it
V2 was driven by a 70-year old female who was also transported to a hospital due to non-incapacitating injuries. The driver stated that she had a green light and was traveling under 48 kmph (30 mph) on her way home from lunch and that she never saw the other vehicle prior to impact. She also said she applied her brakes and steered right in an unsuccessful avoidance maneuver before V1 struck her.