This two-vehicle crash occurred on a weekday during early morning daylight hours at an intersection with traffic signals. The speed limit for the roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). The road is a three-lane divided (no positive barrier) concrete roadway for both vehicles. The roadway is left curved prior to the intersection. The north/south lanes have a curvature with a radius of 188 meters (616 feet), which ends 80.8 meter (265 feet) south to the intersection. The north/south lanes have a left curvature with a radius of 375 meters (1231 feet) for southbound traffic. The road surface was dry and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 BMW 325 i with one occupant, was traveling north in lane two of the northbound lanes attempting to pass through the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Ford F-150 with one occupant, was traveling south in the third lane, attempting a left turn at the intersection. At the intersection, the front of V2 struck the left side of V1. V2 rotated counter clockwise and came to rest within the intersection, facing northeast. V1 continued to move through the intersection while rotating counter clockwise. V1 came to rest within the intersection, facing west. V1 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
A 50-year old male drove V1. He was not interviewed. His medical record indicates a history of diverticulitis and hypertension. Past surgeries include abdominal surgery and a colostomy. Medication includes Atenolol, Celebrex, Zocor, Colace and Zyrtec.
An 18-year old male drove V2. He is in physically good health, was well rested and does not take any medication. He was familiar with his vehicle, but does not possess a valid driver's license and has been driving less than a year. He was coming from his college located about a mile from the crash site. He was early for college and decided to drive to a gas station located in the southeast corner of the intersection.