This is a two vehicle head-on crash that occurred in the eastbound, number one lane of a two-lane roadway. There was one westbound and one eastbound lane with no traffic controls present. This was a straight, level, rural, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 105 kmph (65 mph). It was at mid afternoon and the road was dry and the sky was clear.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 International straight truck equipped with a rollback bed as a tow truck with one occupant, was traveling westbound in the number one lane at a police reported speed of 120 kmph (75 mph). This vehicle departed the westbound lane, traveled into the eastbound lane, and struck vehicle two (V2) head-on. The driver was not injured and refused an interview. The reason for the lane departure is not known. V1 after impact, traveled forward, lost the front axle and steering ability. The vehicle returned to the westbound lane and came to final rest facing generally northwest on the right edge of the roadway and shoulder. V2, a 1993 Suzuki Sidekick utility vehicle with three occupants, rotated clockwise and came to final rest on the right gravel shoulder where it burst into flame and was totally burned. The right front passenger was able to get out of the vehicle. The driver and left rear seat passenger remained in the vehicle and perished. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The sixty two (62) year-old male who was not injured drove V1. He refused to be interviewed on advise of his attorney. The vehicle did depart from the westbound lane into the eastbound lane. The vehicle struck the front of V2 head-on and continued to an uncontrolled stop at final rest. The front axle and both wheels became disengaged from the truck after impact prior to final rest. The left front tire and wheel were never recovered. V1 was towed due to damages.
V2 was driven by a twenty nine year-old male who was probably killed at impact due to severity of the crash. He was not using a restraint. The right front passenger was a twenty one year-old male who was not using a restraint. He was able to get out of the vehicle before it was totally engulfed in flame. He attempted to extricate the second row, left seat passenger, but was unable to do so. That passenger was a forty three year-old male. No interview was obtained from the surviving surrogate passenger.