This two-vehicle crash occurred on an interstate highway. This roadway is divided by a concrete traffic barrier and the eastbound traffic lanes consist of three through lanes and one right exit lane. This roadway is straight and downhill with a posted speed limit of 105 kmph (65 mph). This crash occurred in the late afternoon on a weekday with rush hour congestion. The roadway was wet from a moderate rainfall. The roadway under construction being repaved; the number one travel lane was comprised of scraped/grooved pavement was 5 to 8 centimeters (2 to 3 inches) lower than the adjacent number two paved travel lane, a roadway deficiency.
Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Dodge B-250 Conversion van with four occupants, was traveling eastbound in lane one, the exit lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Volvo XC-70 with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane two, slightly behind V1. The driver of V1 decided not to use the exit and changed lanes directly in front of V2. V2 steered left and then rotated into lane 1. The front of V1 contacted the right side of V2. After this impact, V1 traveled off the right side of the highway. The front of V1 contacted the guardrail. V1 vaulted over the guardrail and onto a steep grass embankment. V1 traveled a short distance and then rolled down the embankment for approximately 53 meters (174 feet) and came to final rest facing northwest on its wheels. After the impact with V1, V2 rotated counterclockwise off the right side of the highway and contacted its back to the guardrail. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a fifty-year-old female, was driving from a resort town and going to her home. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle and passenger load, and drives this route about four times a year. She is in good health and takes no medications. She stated she was in lane two, going straight and getting ready to change lanes to the exit lane when V2 appeared to lose control and came around and hit her. This is contradictory to the story that the front seat passenger (driver one's daughter) gave at the hospital. She concurred with the driver of V2's account of the pre-crash by saying that her mom was initially in lane one, but changed her mind and decided not to take the exit ramp and changed lanes suddenly.
The driver of V2, a fifty-three-year-old female, was driving from her home and on her way to a class. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route about twice a week. She suffers from migraine headaches and takes several medications on a regular basis, which include Excedrin (Aspirin), Lyrica, Lexapro, Lisinopril, Cenestin, and Prometrium (Medroxyprogesterone). She stated that she felt the wet roadway contributed to the skidding and control loss of V2.