This two-vehicle crash occurred a few hours after noon on a Saturday. The location was a busy state route highway with congested traffic. The roadway was a concrete divided roadway, with two lanes in each direction. The westbound lanes in the area of the collision had three lanes the far right lane was the on-ramp lane that turned to an exit only lane just after the area of the crash. The impact location is just west of a highway on-ramp. The weather was cloudy and the roadway was wet from previous rain, and visibility was fair. The posted speed limit was 97 kmph (60 mph).
Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Honda Odyssey mini van with four occupants, was traveling westbound entering the highway. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 BMW 530i 4-door sedan with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane three. V1 changed lanes to the left and the left side of V1 struck the right side of V2. V2 began to rotate clockwise and crossed the other two lanes, and crashed with the right front corner into the right side concrete barrier. V2 then rotated off the barrier rearward into the center lane and the front right of V1 came to rest against the front of V2. V1 drove over to the right shoulder, and was towed from there. V2 remained stalled where it was at impact and was towed due to damage. None of the occupants were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 is a 36 year-old male who is reportedly in good health with no hearing or sight restrictions. He was traveling with his three daughters; they had just left home and were heading to a store. The driver was familiar with both the vehicle and roadway. He stated that his daughter seated in the rear, asked him a question, or was talking to him, and he may have glanced back for a second. When he looked up again traffic ahead had stopped, and he swerved left to miss the cars ahead, and that is when he hit the other vehicle.
The driver of vehicle two, a 60 year-old male, was traveling alone. He had been on the road for over three hours. He was well rested, and had no hearing restrictions. His vision is corrected with the prescription sunglasses he was wearing. He was not in a hurry. He is very comfortable with the condition of his vehicle, and travels this roadway monthly. He stated that V1 came on the highway at the on-ramp and cut across all lanes into the right side of his vehicle.