The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a four-lane roadway divided by a grass median (two lanes in the northbound direction and two lanes in the southbound direction). This was a straight, level and bituminous roadway. The posted speed was 89 kmph (55 mph). It was early evening on a weekday; the sky was cloudy with light showers and the road was wet. Traffic flow was heavy during commuting hours on this well traveled roadway.
V1, a 1998 Dodge Stratus four-door sedan, was driven by a 58-year-old female traveling with her 3-year-old granddaughter. The driver of V1 stated that she had left the mall and was traveling north in lane one heading to the metro station when V2, traveling in lane two, suddenly pulled into lane one into the path of V1 while braking hard. The driver of V1 attempted unsuccessfully to avoid V2 by braking and steering right, striking the center right rear portion of V2 with the front left section of V1. She stated that she believes V2 was attempting to avoid an erratically driven phantom vehicle ahead. The driver of V1 was transported due to possible injuries; the three year-old female was uninjured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V2, a 2004 Honda Accord four-door sedan, was driven by a 21-year-old female. She stated that she had left her mother's home 45 minutes prior to the accident and was almost home when she noticed a driver in front of her driving erratically. She intended to pull over to the right shoulder and stop until she felt it was safe to continue driving. She had noticed V1 prior to her attempt to pull off the road and indicated with her brake and right indicator lights of her intent. Once she began to exit lane one onto the shoulder she did not see V1 again until the collision. The driver was not injured.
The research of the vehicles' damages support the narrative of V1's driver. It is believed that there was a phantom vehicle driving erratically and that V2 encroached into the path of V1 without giving full time and attention.