This two-vehicle crash occurred on the east side of a one-way, four-leg, traffic signal-controlled intersection in an interchange on an off-ramp. On the east side of the intersection, the westbound roadway consists of four lanes, one right turn lane, one through/left turn lane and two left turn lanes. This roadway is bituminous, straight and uphill with a posted speed limit of 105 kmph (65 mph) and an advisory speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph) for the ramp. This crash occurred in the afternoon during daylight hours with moderate traffic congestion.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Hyundai Elantra sedan with three occupants, was westbound in lane three going straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Lincoln Navigator SUV with one occupant, was westbound in lane three in front of V1 stopped in traffic. The traffic light had turned green and traffic started up. V1 stopped before entering the intersection for an emergency vehicle that was northbound driving through the red light in an unknown traffic lane with lights and siren activated. The driver of V1 stated she heard the sirens and had looked in all three mirrors to see where the emergency vehicle was coming from. When she looked back onto the roadway, V2 had stopped in front of her. The driver of V1, to avoid impacting V2 applied her brakes but still impacted with her front to V2's back. V1 came to rest at impact on the wheels facing westbound in lane three. V2 was pushed forward a little and came to rest on its wheels facing westbound in lane three in front of V1. V1 was towed from the scene with moderate frontal damage. V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.
The driver of V1, a twenty-two year-old female, was driving her sister home after having lunch. She was well rested, drives this roadway weekly and was very familiar with the vehicle. She stated she has a heart murmur, but the doctor was not concerned at this time. She takes a birth control pill everyday, but did not know the name of it. V1 had 3 of the 4 tires that were underinflated and all had low tread depth.
The driver of V2, a sixty-eight year-old male, could not remember where he was coming from, but he was going back to work. He was well rested, can sometimes drive the roadway six times a day and sometimes not for a while and is very familiar with the vehicle. He is in fair health because of a traffic collision he had in 1998. He had to have to have a hip replacement and now he has back problems because of it. He takes Allopurinol, Lasix, Spironolactone, Trephasil, Vitamins and Vasotec on a regular basis. He wears reading glasses and trifocals when needed, but did not need them at the time. He has sleep apnea and uses a BiPAP machine. He is the owner of a business and does have some stress.