The crash occurred on a level bituminous two-lane roadway with a posted speed limit of 72 KPH (45 mph). This was a “T” type intersection controlled by a traffic signal. The roadway curved to the left for V1 with a radius of curvature of 489 meters and a superelevation of 1.5%. There were yellow signal-warning signs for both vehicles. The weather was clear, the roadway was dry and it was daylight at the time of this afternoon weekday crash. Traffic flow was normal for that time of day.
V1, a 1992 Chevrolet Lumina, was traveling north on the roadway negotiating the curve to the left and approached the intersection to the right. V2, a 1991 Buick Skylark, was traveling south on the same roadway and approached the intersection to the left. V2 stopped and waited to make a left turn. V1 entered the intersection. V2 initiated the left turn and struck V1 in the front with its front. V2 came to rest in the intersection facing in a southeasterly direction. V1 continued off the right side of the roadway and struck a w-beam guardrail with its front coming to rest facing in a northerly direction. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the Chevrolet Lumina, was driven by a belted 18-year-old male who was not injured. The belted 19 year old male right front seat passenger and belted 22 year old female second seat right side passenger also were not injured. The driver stated that he was on his way to take his sister to work. He approached the intersection and was slowing down because the speed limit changed to 35 mph. He stated that he was traveling 50 mph. He said he saw the other vehicle stopped waiting to make the turn, but she was over the line, partially in his lane, but he had enough room to go around her. He glanced up at the light, returned his attention to the other vehicle, which then made the turn directly in front of him. He said he had no time to take any avoidance maneuvers. His vehicle was then pushed over to the right and into the guardrail. He considered himself in good health, did not wear glasses or take any type of medications. He stated that he had been driving approximately 1 year, only had the required 5-hour course and driving experience with his parents. He just had his license issued on 7/12/07.
V2, the Buick Skylark, was driven by a belted 77-year-old female who was not injured. The driver stated that she was on her way home from the pharmacy and not in a hurry. She said that there was a car in front of her also stopped waiting to turn. The other vehicle proceeded to make the left turn. She waited for on coming traffic to pass. She stated that she looked and saw no cars coming, proceeded to make the turn and “wham”. She stated she did not see the other vehicle and did not know where it had come from. She considered herself in good health and wore glasses only for reading. She advised that she had a pacemaker and blood related problems. She took prescription medications for these conditions.