The crash occurred on a level, bituminous two lane undivided roadway. The posted speed limit was 64 KPH (40 mph). The weather was clear, the roadway dry and it was daylight at the time of this early morning weekday crash. Traffic flow was normal for that time of day.
V1, a 2005 Nissan Frontier pick-up truck, was traveling south on the roadway. V2, a 2004 Freightliner tractor pulling a semi trailer (loaded with 40,000 pounds of cargo), was traveling north on the roadway. V1 crossed over the centerline and stuck the front of V2 with its front. V1 rotated counterclockwise back across the southbound lane and came to rest facing in a northwesterly direction on the shoulder. V2 continued into the southbound lane and came to rest facing in a northwesterly direction in the southbound lane. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1, the Nissan Frontier, was driven by a belted 23-year-old male who was transported, treated and hospitalized for a head injury. No further information was obtained as the driver could not be contacted or located.
A witness behind V1 stated that he had followed V1 for quite some distance and that the vehicle had been drifting from one side of the lane to the other. Just prior to the crash the witness stated that V1 sped up and crossed into the oncoming lane. The witness did not see any attempt to avoid V2 or any brake lights on V1. He stated that V1 was traveling approximately 41-50 mph prior to the crash.
V2, the Freightliner, was driven by a belted 34 year old male who was transported, treated and released for a complaint of pain. The driver stated that he was enjoying the day because he had a shortened route and was looking forward to getting home early. He stated that he was following traffic at approximately 25-35 mph and drove this road daily. He advised that he observed a couple walking on the side of the road to his right from "way back". He said that he had seen the truck in its lane up the road and then it came into his lane seconds before the crash. He attempted to move to the right to avoid the collision but was unable to because of the pedestrians.