This two-vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane non-divided asphalt constructed roadway. This roadway crosses a deep gorge with a span bridge. This crash occurred just past noon during daylight with no adverse weather and no obvious defects noted. The posted speed limit is 89 kmph ( 55 mph) for both directions. This bridge is at the center of downgrades from both directions. There is a curve for both approaches to the bridge.
Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Freightliner 750 series truck pulling a 7.3 meter long (24-foot) camp trailer, driven by a forty six year old male with one passenger was westbound at the middle of the bridge when the camp trailer broke loose from the trailer hitch and crossed the center line. Once over the center line the camp trailer was impacted by Vehicle two (V2) a 2004 Chevrolet 4 door sedan driven by a fifty one (51) year old female with one passenger traveling in the opposite direction. V1 was not impacted and came to a stop just at the end of this bridge. The trailer was disabled and V1 was driven from the scene. V2 was eastbound and had just entered the bridge when it contacted the trailer with its front plane. V2 was disabled and came to rest on the bridge still heading east. The driver and passenger were injured and transported to a local hospital. V2 was disabled and towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1 and 89 kmph for V2.
The driver stated that just prior to the trailer coming loose he had heard a grind noise and looked into the left door mirror and saw the trailer cross the center line. He stated that he had towed this trailer about 225 kilometers (140 miles) and had stopped and checked the trailer and hitch around 80 kilometers (50 miles) back.
The driver of V2 stated that she and her passenger were on the bridge and the trailer came out from behind the large truck and into her lane. She stated that she slammed on her brakes but was not able to avoid the on-coming trailer. The driver and passenger were injured and transported to a local hospital. V2 was disabled and towed.