The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a four-lane roadway divided by a painted median. There were two northbound lanes and two southbound lanes. The roadway was level, curved to the right and had a radius of curvature of 1,125 meters. The roadway approached an intersection to the right. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 56 KPH (35 mph). It was cloudy, the roadway dry and it was daylight at the time of this weekday afternoon crash. Traffic was normal for that time of day with stop and go activity.
V1, a 2006 Ford F-550, was traveling in a southwesterly direction on a two lane undivided roadway with no posted speed limit approaching the intersection controlled by a stop sign. A non-contact vehicle stopped in the driving lane to let V1 cross into the southbound lanes. V1 entered the roadway across the driving lane and stopped partially into the passing lane. V2, a 1997 Nissan Sentra, was traveling north in the passing lane negotiating the curve to the right. V2 struck V1 in the front with its front. Both vehicles came to rest in the roadway. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1 and 0 kmph for V2.
V1, the Ford F-550, was driven by a belted 42-year-old male who was not injured. He stated that he had just come from the tire store down the street and was on his way to a work site. He stated that a pick-up in the driving lane stopped and waved him out. He pulled out across the driving lane, partially into the passing lane and had to stop to wait for southbound traffic to clear. He stated he saw the other vehicle a "long block" down and she just kept coming, but he thought, "She's got to see me". He attempted to put the truck into reverse, but was unable to get out of the way. He indicated that the other driver appeared to be on a phone or something; her hand was up by her face. The driver stated that he was in good health, took no medications and wore contact lenses for a myopic (near-sighted) condition.
V2, the Nissan Sentra, was driven by a 19 year old female (it was unknown if she was belted or not) who was transported, treated and released for a minor laceration to her head. The belted 27-year-old male front right seat passenger was not injured. No additional information was obtained because the driver could not be contacted or located.