This crash occurred in the eastbound lanes in the middle of a four-way, suburban intersection. The intersection consisted of a four-lane east/west roadway and a multi-lane north/south roadway controlled by a properly functioning traffic signal. Both roadways were bituminous, dry, straight, and level with posted speed limits of 64 kmph (40 mph). It was afternoon and the road was wet and the sky was clear.
V1, a 1986 Oldsmobile Delta 88 with one occupant, was eastbound in lane one approaching the intersection where it intended to go straight. V2, a 1997 Chevrolet pick-up with one occupant, was westbound in lane two approaching the same intersection where it intended to turn left. A line of cars were backed-up facing east waiting to turn northbound onto the intersecting roadway. V2 began his left turn at the same time V1 entered the intersection. The right-front corner of V2 was struck by the front of V1. V2 rotated counter-clockwise and came to final rest in the middle of the intersection facing southeast. V1 came to final rest in the middle of the intersection near the point of impact facing east. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1, a 58-year-old female, reported minor injuries and was transported for treatment. She advised that she had just left home and was on her way to work. She advised that she was traveling between 34-48 kmph (21-30 mph) when she saw V2 suddenly turn in front of her. She applied the brakes but could not avoid striking V2.
The driver of V2, a 51-year-old male, reported minor injuries and was transported for treatment. He advised that he had left his work and was on his way to a job site. He advised that he was stopped at the light for more than ten seconds before proceeding. He stated that he thought it was clear to proceed and was traveling between 2-16 kmph (1-10 mph) when he was struck. He stated that he did not see V1 prior to impact so he did not attempt any avoidance actions.