The crash occurred at the intersection of an east/west primary arterial road that was straight and level and a north/south residential road. The primary roadway had 5 lanes, with lane three being a left turn-only lane in both directions. The intersection was controlled by traffic signals on colors without pedestrian signals. Conditions at the time of the crash were dusk and dry early on a weekday evening. The speed limit on the arterial was 72 kmph/45mph.
V1 was a 2007 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan that was in westbound lane 3 of the arterial attempting a left turn on a solid green light. V2, a 1998 Chevrolet Blazer utility vehicle, was traveling east in lane two intending to continue straight through the intersection. V1 attempted the left turn as V2 was passing through the intersection and the front of V1 struck the left side (near the front) of V2. V1's front scraped down the left side of V2, cutting the sidewall of the rear tire. V1 came to rest in lane 1 of the south leg of the intersection facing south. V2 traveled to the right (south) paved shoulder on the east leg of the intersection and came to a controlled stop facing east. V1 was towed from the scene and V2 was driven away. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
V1 was driven by a belted-thirty-nine-year-old-male who was not injured in the crash. He said he had driven from out of state (approximately 550 miles per driver estimation) in the rented V1 and was on a business trip but was stopping at a family member's residence en route. He said he watched a non-contact vehicle that was originally eastbound on the arterial turn right and then he (D1) proceeded to turn left. He then said he saw the glare of V2's headlights but thought he had time but struck V2.
V2 was driven by a twenty-year-old-belted-male who was uninjured in the crash. He was on his way home from work and said that he had a solid green light and figured the other guy (V1) would wait for him to clear before going because there was no traffic behind him (D2).