The crash occurred in lane 1 of 2 eastbound lanes of 4 lanes with a median/positive barrier connecting 2 interstate roadways. The bituminous, left curving 2-lanes that had a 2% uphill grade with paved shoulders was dry at the time of the weekday, early morning crash. The crash happened about 15 minutes after sunrise and the sky was clear. It was rush hour and traffic was backed up from a construction zone 2 miles east of where the crash occurred. The posted speed limit was 113kmh (70mph).
V1, a 1996 Freightliner CBE tractor pulling a 40 ft covered flatbed trailer with a cargo weight of 42,000lbs was driven by a 35 year-old male driver, who was eastbound in lane 1 of the roadway described above. V2, a 2002 Mercury Sable was driven by a 51 year-old male driver, was stopped in lane 1, at the end of the backup, in the same roadway described above. As V1 approached the stopped traffic he braked and steered right onto the shoulder to try to avoid V2. V1, front left, contacted the entire right side of V2. V1 continued east on the right shoulder coming to rest there facing east approximately 30 meters past V2. V2 remained in lane 1 facing east at final rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.
The driver of V1 stated that he had been driving for about 20 minutes after sleeping in a rest area for 2 hours, was on time for a delivery in a nearby town and was in congested, rush hour traffic. As he rounded the left curve described above at about 35mph, he was looking right into the rising sun. He then noticed that traffic in both lanes was stopped. He was unable to stop in time so he steered right onto the shoulder as he braked but was unable to avoid hitting the right side of V2.
The driver of V2 stated that he was east bound on the road stopped in traffic behind a tractor trailer. "I was stopped 10-20 seconds when the truck came up behind me and couldn't stop. He went to the right shoulder; I was in the right lane. He sideswiped the right side of my car."