This case involved a belted, female driver responding to a near side (left) impact with another passenger vehicle and frontal impact air bag deployment.

This crash occurred at the intersection of five-lane, undivided, east/west trafficway and a seven-lane, divided, north/south trafficway. The east/west roadway had two lanes for travel in each direction separated by painted double yellow lines. The north/south trafficway had two lanes for northbound travel, two designated left turn lanes and three southbound lanes divided by a raised, curbed median. Both bituminous roadways were straight and level. The intersection was controlled by tri-color traffic signals on all corners. The weather was clear and the roadways dry during the mid-morning, weekday crash.

The case vehicle (V1, 1999 Saturn SW1 station wagon) was traveling westbound in the left turn lane on its approach to the intersection with the intention of turning left. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts in the outboard positions and driver and passenger frontal impact air bags. The driver (subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint.

The opposing vehicle (V2, 1999 Buick Century, 4-door sedan) was traveling northbound in the number-one (right) lane at an undetermined speed (low to moderate based on vehicle damage) on its approach to the intersection and intended to travel straight through. The driver (sole occupant) of V2 was reported as belted.

V1 entered the intersection and began the left-turning maneuver as V2 continued straight into the intersection and the front of V2 struck the left side of V1 in the area encompassing the driver's door. V1's frontal impact air bags deployed. The impact deflected V1 to the northwest as it rotated 90-degrees counterclockwise. V1 came to rest within the intersection facing southeast. V2 rotated counterclockwise 180-degrees as its momentum carried it forward and V2 came to rest in the northbound number-one lane facing south.

Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The driver of V1 (subject) was transported to a trauma facility due to 'severe' injuries as rated by police. The driver of V2 sustained 'other visible injury' (facial abrasion to left cheek) as rated by police but was not transported.