This case involved a belted, male driver responding to a near side (left) impact with another passenger vehicle with side 'curtain' air bag deployment.

This crash occurred at the three-leg intersection of a five-lane, divided, north/south roadway and a three-lane roadway adjoining from the west. The north/south road consisted of two lanes of travel for each direction (and a designated left turn lane for northbound traffic) separated by a painted median. There was an uphill grade and sweeping left curve for southbound traffic. The adjoining east/west road consisted of a single lane for travel in each direction with a designated left turn lane (for northbound travel) separated by painted double yellow lines. This roadway consisted of a hillcrest just prior to its conjunction with the intersection. The weather was clear and both bituminous roadways were dry during the afternoon, daylight weekday crash.

The case vehicle (V1, 2004 Chrysler Pacifica, 4-door, 6-passenger SUV) was traveling eastbound on the three-lane road and had come to a stop in the left turn lane, at the stop limit line, intending to turn left. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts, driver and passenger frontal impact air bags, side impact curtain bags and a knee bolster air bag. The 56-year-old, male driver (subject occupant) and the (unspecified age) female front right seat passenger were both using the belt restraints.

The opposing vehicle (V2, 2002 Ford Focus, 4-door sedan) was traveling southbound in the number two lane (left, inside) at a police reported (estimated based on statement) 85 kmph as it approached the intersection with the intention of proceeding straight through it. The sole occupant (driver) of V2 was reported as having been belted.

V1 pulled into the intersection steering into a left turn as V2 entered the intersection. The front of V2 struck the left side of V1. V1's side impact curtain bag, and knee bolster bag deployed. The impact caused both vehicles to rotate counterclockwise during which V1's right rear tire lost its bead, deflated and the wheel rim gouged the road. V1 was pushed off of the eastside of the five-lane (N/S) roadway and came to rest on its wheels facing back toward the west, the direction from which it had come. V2 separated from V1 during the rotation and began tracking north, out of control, opposite the direction it had come from. V2 continued in a long arc that took it across the roadway and off of the west side where it came to rest down an embankment.

Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The driver of V1 (subject occupant) was transported to a trauma facility due to 'complaint of pain' as rated by police. The additional occupant of V1 was also transported with 'complaint of pain' injuries. The driver of V2 was transported with 'other visible injuries' as rated by police.