This case involved a belted, male driver and a belted, female front right seat passenger, responding to a left-side leading rollover sequence. This crash occurred on a one-way connector ramp between two controlled traffic ways. There were two lanes for travel with a negative grade and a right curve, as proceeding south to west. The left roadside consisted of a protected median. The right roadside (north) consisted of a paved shoulder culminating at a curb, followed by a level area of ground cover (ice plant) with a chain-link fence protecting a concrete drainage channel running parallel to the direction of the roadway. The drainage channel was approximately three-meters deep and 7 meters wide. The weather was clear and the concrete roadway dry during the early morning (dark-street lights), weekday crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2003 Chevrolet S-10 three-door pickup) was traveling south, to westbound on the connector ramp in the number-two (left) lane at a police reported (estimated) 80 kmph, down the slight grade and negotiating the right curve. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts in the front outboard positions and driver and passenger frontal impact air bags. The 26-year-old male driver (subject occupant 1) was using the belt restraint. It was also determined that the 24-year old front right seat female passenger (subject occupant 2) was not using her belt restraint based upon pre-hospital information. There was a second vehicle (V2, 1991 Ford Mustang, 2-door coupe) involved in the initial stages of the event sequence. V2 was traveling south to west on the connector ramp in the number-one lane, to V1's right and slightly behind at an undetermined speed. V1 and V2 were negotiating the right curve when the driver of V1 thought he saw a vehicle coming into his lane from the left (the vehicle was actually on an adjacent traffic way). The driver of V1 steered into the number-one lane (right), apparently not noticing V2 in the lane. The front left of V2 struck the right rear of V1. V1 began a clockwise yaw as it continued across the number-one lane and off of the right (north) roadside. V1 rotated clockwise and struck the chain-link fence with its left, and/or, front, damaging fifteen meters of it. V1 continued its trajectory and overturned (fall over) into the concrete drainage channel, landing first on its right roof rail. The vehicle overturned an approximated 14 quarter-turns on the concrete surface and most likely struck the opposite side upslope during the sequence. The vehicle came to rest on its top facing the opposite direction of its original path. V1 was towed due to disabling damage, V2 was not. Both occupants of V1, the driver (subject occupant 1) and the front right seat passenger (subject occupant 2) were transported to a trauma facility due to 'severe' injury as rated by police.