This single vehicle crash occurred on the eastbound lanes of an east/west interstate traveling through a rural area. The trafficway had two lanes for travel in each direction divided by a natural median. The roadway had a downhill grade from west to east and began straight but at the bottom of the hill curved right. The north roadside consisted of a narrow paved shoulder, a dirt shoulder and then a downward embankment. The median was higher on the eastbound side than the westbound side and there was a gradual depression in the center for water runoff. The weather was clear and the bituminous trafficway dry during the afternoon, weekend crash. The case vehicle (2000 Ford Taurus, 4-door sedan) was traveling eastbound down the hill in the number-two lane (left). The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row frontal impact air bags. The 34-year-old female driver (case subject 1) was using the belt restraint based on 'other than' physical evidence. There were four additional passengers. The 37-year-old male front right passenger, 14-year-old female second row left seat passenger (case subject 2), 9-year-old female second row center passenger and the 11-year-old female second row right seat passenger were all belted. As the driver negotiated the downhill grade and began the right curve she reached for a cup of coffee from the front seat passenger. The driver took her eyes off of the road and was startled when the vehicle drifted off of the left (north) roadside. The driver steered the vehicle to the right and the vehicle returned to the roadway abruptly. The vehicle's response again startled the driver and she steered the vehicle to the left to prevent the vehicle from entering the number-one lane. This resulted in the vehicle beginning a counterclockwise yaw as it again traveled off of the left roadside into the median. The vehicle slid down the embankment until tripping on its right wheels. The vehicle landed first on its left and top planes. Another hard impact bent its right wheels. The vehicle came to rest on the eastbound side of the trafficway on its wheels facing northwest. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. The driver (case subject 1) and the second row left side passenger (case subject 2) were transported to a trauma facility due to 'severe' injury(s). The front right occupant received a large contusion to the right side of his head and was not transported. The second row center occupant complained of pain to her left wrist and lacerations and abrasions to her head. The second row right seat passenger was not reported as injured.