This case involves an unbelted front right seat passenger responding to a left, off-set, frontal impact with a non-breakaway pole and frontal impact air bag deployment. This single vehicle crash occurred on an off-ramp from the eastbound side of a six lane, divided, east/west trafficway. There were three lanes for travel eastbound and a single lane exit ramp. The ramp was generally straight (prior roadway departure) with a slight uphill grade. There was a paved left shoulder that narrowed as it progressed toward the crash site. The right (south) roadside consisted of the narrow paved shoulder and a curb followed by a downward embankment. There were steel-pole street lights mounted on circular concrete bases along the south road edge, just beyond the curb. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the early morning (dark, street lights), weekday crash. The case vehicle, a 2001 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound on the exit ramp. The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and driver and passenger frontal impact air bags. The 33-year-old, female driver was using the belt restraint based on physical evidence. The 39-year-old, female front right seat passenger (case subject) was not thought to have been using the belt restraint. The driver was negotiating the, generally, straight, slightly uphill exit ramp when she allowed the vehicle to travel off of the right roadside. The vehicle struck a 30cm, steel, non-breakaway street light pole mounted on a 70cm wide circular concrete base. The impact caused the vehicle to rotate counterclockwise approximately 90-degrees as it separated from the pole and landed, on its wheels, on the downward embankment facing the pole (north) within a close proximity to the pole. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. The driver was transported due to "B" injuries as rated by police. The front right seat passenger (case subject) was also transported to a trauma facility due to "B" injuries by police.