This case involves a belted driver of a sport utility vehicle responding to a frontal collision with a wooden utility pole and frontal impact air bag deployment. This single vehicle crash occurred on an east/west trafficway traveling through a rural area. The roadway had a single lane for travel in each direction separated by painted double yellow lines. The roadway had an uphill grade from east west and began straight but at the top of the hill curved left. The north roadside consisted of a narrow paved shoulder and mountable curb followed by a dirt shoulder and an upward dirt/rock embankment of varying heights. On the dirt shoulder there was a wooden utility pole (35 cm diameter). The weather was cloudy but the bituminous roadway was dry during the early morning dark hours. The case vehicle (1999 Dodge Durango, 4-door SUV) was traveling westbound up the hill. The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row frontal impact air bags. The 66-year-old male driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint based on 'other than' physical evidence. As the vehicle reached the top of the hill the roadway curved left. The subject related that headlights (from on-coming traffic) may have shined in his eyes and he steered right to avoid them. However, the subject did not negotiate the curve and the vehicle drove off of the right roadside across the curb and onto the dirt shoulder. At the precise location the adjacent embankment had a ramp like profile, which allowed the vehicle's right side wheels to ramp up onto it resulting in the vehicle being tilted approximately 50-degrees left. Before the vehicle lost its contact with the ground the front plane struck the pole. The vehicle's frontal impact air bags deployed. The impact damaged the pole to the extent it was replaced and it possibly dislodged an object (wires) causing it to fall from above, striking the right plane of the vehicle as it rotated clockwise, rebounded away from the pole and came to rest in the roadway facing north east on its wheels. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. The subject was transported to a trauma facility due to 'severe' injury(s).