This case involved the unbelted second row, center seat passenger (24 y/o female) of a large, utility station wagon responding to a right plane collision with the front of a minivan, no bag deployment and resulting in serious injury.. This crash occurred on a curving, two-lane, east/west trafficway traveling through a rural area. The lanes of travel were separated by painted double yellow lines. Eastbound travel experiences a left curve and uphill grade on the approach to the crash site. Westbound travel approaches straight and downhill. The weather was rainy and the bituminous roadway was wet during the midday, weekday crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2005 Dodge Durango, 4-door large utility vehicle, was traveling eastbound, uphill and negotiating a left curve. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row frontal impact air bags. There were three occupants in V1. The case subject was seated in the 2nd row center position. The 28-year-old male driver was not using the belt restraint. There was a 1-year-old female occupant determined to have been seated in the 2nd row left position improperly restrained in a child seat. The 24-year-old female subject was seated in the center position and determined to have not been using the restraint. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2006 Chrysler Town & Country, minivan) was traveling westbound, downhill and straight on its approach to the crash site. There were two occupants of V2. The driver of V1 allowed the vehicle to travel off of the right (south) roadside in the midst of a left curve while traveling uphill. The driver steered left in an effort to regain the roadway. The vehicle responded by re-entering the roadway in an increasing counterclockwise yaw as it crossed the centerline and into the path of V2. The front of V2 struck the right front of V1. The impact caused V1's driver frontal impact air bag to deploy. V1's counterclockwise rotation was increased by the collision and it rotated rapidly, almost tripping, as it struck V2 a second time, with the right of V1 striking the left of V2. V1 came to rest in the westbound lane facing east. V2 came to rest off of the north side of the roadway facing southwest. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The subject (V1, O3) was transported to a trauma facility due to 'severe' injury(s). The driver and second occupant of V1 were also transported to trauma facilities due to varying degrees of injury as were the two occupants of V2.