This case involved a belted driver responding to a head-on impact with another passenger vehicle and frontal impact air bag deployment. This crash occurred on a five lane north/south trafficway. There were two lanes for travel in each direction divided by a continuous center turn lane. The straight roadway had a slight positive grade from south to north. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the dusk time, weekday crash. The case vehicle (V1), a 2001 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, was traveling southbound in the number-two lane (left) intending to continue straight. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and driver and passenger frontal impact air bags. The 29-year-old female driver (case subject) was using the belt restraint as evidenced by the actuated pretensioner having locked the belt in the spooled out position. There were two additional occupants in V1, a 6-year-old male in the second row, left position and a 9-year-old female in the second row, right position. Neither of which were using the belt restraints. The opposing vehicle (V2), a 2004 Chevrolet Silverado C1500 pickup, was traveling northbound in the number-two lane. The driver of V1 became distracted when she turned to address the children in the back seat. As the driver looked over her right shoulder toward the rear seat she inadvertently turned the steering wheel to the left causing the vehicle to veer left across the center turn lane, into the northbound lanes and into the path of V2. The front of V1 struck the front of V2 in a head-on impact. V1's frontal impact air bags deployed. V1 rotated clockwise approximately 45-degrees where it came to rest in the northbound number-one lane facing southwest. The impact stopped V2 at impact and deflected it rearward slightly to its final rest in the number-two northbound lane facing north. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. All three occupants of V1 were transported to trauma facilities with "A" injuries as rated by police. The driver of V2 was transported with "C" injuries as rated by police.