This case involved the driver of a passenger car responding to a frontal impact into the side of a large pickup. The case vehicle frontal impact air bags deployed. This crash occurred at the four-way intersection of two rural roads. The north/south roadway had a single lane for travel in each direction separated by painted lane lines. The east/west roadway had a single lane for travel in each direction separated by intermittent painted lane lines. The intersection was controlled by stop signs on east and westbound approaches. Both roadways were straight and level. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadways dry during the afternoon, weekday crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2003 Ford Focus, 4-door sedan) was traveling northbound on its approach to the intersection intending to travel straight through. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belt restraints and frontal impact driver and passenger air bags. There were two occupants of V1, the 83-year-old male driver (case subject) and an 89-year-old female front right seat passenger. Both were using the belt restraints as based on physical evidence. The opposing vehicle (V2, 1996 Ford F150, 4x4 pickup) was traveling eastbound on its approach to the intersection intending to travel straight through. There were three occupants of V2. As both vehicles approached the intersection, V2 crossed the path of V1. The subject (driver, V1) observed the unanticipated vehicle and applied V1's brakes, leaving locked wheel skid marks up to the point of impact. The front of V1 struck the right side of V2. V1's air bags deployed. The impact rotated V1 clockwise approximately 90-degrees as the front of V1 underrode V2. V1's left plane was rotated into the right side of V2. The underride overturned V2 to its left one quarter-turn. V1 came to rest facing east at the NE northeast corner. V2 came to rest on its left side along the east side of the northeast corner. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. Both occupants of V1 were transported to an area hospital, with the subject being transferred to a trauma facility with 'severe' injury(s).