This case involved an unbelted driver of a passenger car responding to a near side impact with a full-sized pickup, with seat back mounted side impact air bag deployment. This crash occurred at the intersection of two, two-way streets traveling through a residential area. The east/west, street consisted of a single lane for travel in each direction separated by painted double yellow lines, and was straight and level. The north/south street had a single lane for each direction separated by painted double yellow lines, was straight, and had a downhill grade from north to south. There was a pronounced dip at intersection of the north leg with the east/west street. The intersection is controlled by stop signs at the north and south legs. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadways dry during the early morning (dark-street lights), weekend crash. The case vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Acura RSX 3-door hatchback, was traveling eastbound on its approach to the intersection with the intention of traveling straight through. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts, first row frontal impact air bags and first row seat back mounted side impact air bags. The 38-year-old male driver (case subject/sole occupant) was not using the belt restraint based on vehicle inspection evidence. The opposing vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Ford F-150 XLT 4x4, was traveling southbound on its approach with the intention of traveling straight through. There was a single occupant of V2. Both vehicles entered the intersection simultaneously. The front of V2 struck the left side of V1. Due to the dip at the north leg, V2's weight was slightly launched and evidence shows that V1 was struck approximately 10 cm higher than it would have normally been. V2 was already much higher than V1 and the extra lift placed V2's bumper at V1's beltline and above, with maximum crush at the B-pillar. V2 was also equipped with recovery hooks mounted below the bumper on the front. The recovery hooks extended almost to the front-most edge of the vehicle's front bumper. At impact V2's recovery hooks made contact high into the driver's door and the left side rear of the B-pillar. The hooks punched through the body panels. V1's seat back mounted air bag deployed. At inspection, the air bag was found partially within the driver's door cavity and unable to free up. The impact caused V1 to rotate counterclockwise approximately one hundred seventy-degrees where it traveled up onto the southeast corner. The rear of the vehicle struck a stop sign post and then a low, concrete block wall. V1 came to rest against the wall facing northwest. V2 was deflected to the southeast and came to rest in the south leg of the intersection facing southeast. V2 fled the scene and in the process backed into the front plane of V1. V1 was towed due to disabling damage while V2 drove away. The driver of V1 (subject) was transported to a trauma facility due to 'severe' injuries.