This case involved a belted driver responding rollover crash with a frontal impact air bag deployment. This crash occurred on the eastbound side of a four-lane, divided, interstate traveling through rural, mountainous terrain. There were two lanes for travel in each direction divided by natural terrain. For eastbound traffic there was a gradual downgrade and right curve. The left (north) roadside consisted of a narrow gravel shoulder followed by a water runoff ditch and then the natural median. There were small metal mileage marker posts situated on the median shoulder. The right (south) roadside consisted of a curb followed by a narrow gravel shoulder and a steep downward embankment made up of large boulders. There was a dry creek bed at the bottom of the approximate fifteen meter embankment. The weather was clear and bituminous roadway dry during the afternoon, weekend crash. The case vehicle, a 2006 Chevrolet HHR 4-door station wagon, was traveling eastbound in the number-two (left) lane at an undetermined speed. The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belt restraints, driver and passenger frontal impact air bags and left and right roof rail mounted side impact air bags. The 53-year-old male driver (case subject) was using the belt restraint as evidenced by the post-pretensioned condition. The other three occupants; a 54-year-old female front right seat passenger, 36-year-old female second seat left passenger and a 74-year-old male second seat right passenger were also determined as having used the belt restraints. As the driver negotiated the right curving downgrade, he allowed the vehicle to travel off of the north (left) side of the roadway and onto the gravel shoulder. Evidence indicates that the driver steered right abruptly, placing the vehicle into a clockwise yaw as it struck down a small metal post with its left front door. The vehicle returned to the roadway in the clockwise yaw, crossed it and exited the south (right) side. The vehicle rode up over the short curb and became airborne with its left side leading, landing first with its front left undercarriage into large boulders. The vehicle's frontal impact air bags deployed. The vehicle continued to overturn an estimated thirteen quarter-turns to the left, striking large rocks at each landing. The vehicle came to rest at the bottom, of the embankment on its left side facing west (opposite). The roof rail mounted curtain air bags did not deploy. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. The two front row occupants, including the driver/subject, were transported directly to a trauma facility with more serious injuries, while the two second row occupants were transported to a local hospital for lesser reported injuries