This case involved a belted 25 y/o female front right seat passenger, a belted 29 y/o female 2nd row left seat passenger and a1 y/o male CRS restrained 3rd row left seat passenger, responding to a Frontal impact with first row air bag deployment. The impact resulted in 'severe' vehicle damage and caused serious injury(s). This two-vehicle crash occurred in the westbound number-one lane of a four-lane, divided, interstate traveling through a rural area. The two westbound lanes were divided from the eastbound by natural, mountainous, terrain. The roadway was straight and there was a noticeable grade incline. The weather was clear and the concrete roadway dry during the mid-morning, weekday crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2006 Honda Odyssey, 7-seat minivan) was traveling westbound in the number-one lane. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts, first row frontal impact air bags and left and right roof rail mounted curtain air bags. There were six occupants of this vehicle, three adults and three children. The 49 y/o male driver, the 25 y/o female front right seat passenger (subject 1) and the 29 y/o 2nd row left seat passenger (subject 2) were all using the belt restraints. The 3yr/o female, 2nd row right seat passenger, the 1 y/o male, 3rd row left seat passenger and the 21 month/o male, 3rd row right seat passenger were all restrained by unknown make/model child restraint systems. The opposing vehicle (V2, 1999 Sterling Tow truck) was also traveling westbound in the number-one lane. The driver of V1 had, reportedly, been making lane changes around slower moving traffic prior to the collision. V1 came up behind the slower, steadily moving V2 in the number-one lane not realizing the difference in their speeds. Possibly, the driver attempted to steer left, in an effort to avoid the back of V2, as direct damage was confined to the right half at the bumper level. The front of V1 struck the back of V2. V1's frontal impact air bags deployed. It is surmised that the curtain bags also deployed at this time. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The driver of V1 was pronounced fatal at the scene. The remaining five occupants were all transported to trauma facilities due to: serious injuries for subject 1 and 2, and for precautionary measures for subject 3.