This case involves the two belted front row occupants of an SUV responding to a minor frontal plane impact with another vehicle leading to a right side, eight quarter-turn rollover. This crash occurred on the northbound side of a divided, multilane interstate. There were four lanes for travel in each direction divided by a guardrail on the paved median. The trafficway was straight and there was an elevation gain for northbound traffic. The weather was clear and the concrete roadway dry during the early morning (dark/not lights), weekend crash. The Case Vehicle (V1, 2003 Ford Explorer, 4-door sport utility vehicle) was traveling northbound in the number-two lane (second from right). The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row frontal impact air bags. There were two occupants of V1. The 27-year-old male driver (case occupant 1) and 23-year-old male front right seat passenger (case occupant 2) were using the belt restraints based on physical evidence. The opposing vehicle (V2, 1988 Nissan Sentra, 4-door sedan) was traveling northbound in the number-three lane. The driver of V1 was fatigued and fell asleep allowing the vehicle to drift to its left, out of lane two and into lane three. V1 was traveling at a higher speed than V2 and the front right of V1 struck the back left of V2. V1's frontal impact air bags did not deploy. The driver steered left resulting in the vehicle to begin an ever-increasing counter-clockwise rotation. As V1 exited the roadway onto the median its rotation reached a point where the vehicle tripped to the right, just prior to the guardrail. V1 overturned to the right onto the guardrail and continuing for an estimated eight quarter-turns until reaching its point of rest, on its wheels facing northwest. V2 had come to a controlled stop on the right shoulder of the roadway. Both vehicles were towed from the scene, V1 due to disabling damage. Both occupants of V1 (subjects 1 & 2) were transported to a trauma facility due to moderately serious injury(s).