This case involves the belted 32-year-old female driver of a passenger car responding to a frontal, head-on (offset left) crash with a passenger shuttle bus. The subject's air bag deployed and the moderate delta V impact caused moderate injuries. This two-vehicle crash occurred at the controlled, three-way intersection of a multilane, divided, east/west trafficway and a four-lane cargo terminal access roadway that adjoined from the north. For westbound travel there were four through lanes, divided from eastbound traffic by a raised curb median, with a designated right turn lane into the cargo terminal. For eastbound travel there were four lanes for through traffic with a designated left turn lane. The trafficway was straight and level. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the dusk, weekday crash. The Case Vehicle (V1, 2006 Lincoln Zephyr, 4-door sedan) was traveling westbound in the number four lane (far left) on its approach to the intersection and intending to travel straight through. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts (pretensioner), first row frontal impact air bags and first row seat back mounted side impact air bags. The 32-year-old female driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint based on physical evidence. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2007 Chevrolet B2500, shuttle bus) was traveling eastbound in the designated left turn lane intending to turn left. Both vehicles entered the intersection simultaneously. The driver of V1 (subject) applied the brakes as she realized an impact was imminent. The front left of V1 struck the Front right of V2 as it turned left into V1's path. V1's frontal impact driver air bag deployed. The impact rotated V1 approximately 40-degrees clockwise where it came to rest facing northwest within the intersection. V2 came to a stop adjacent to V1. Both vehicles were towed form the scene with V1 due to disabling damage. The driver of V1 (subject) was transported to a trauma facility due to moderate injury.