This case involved a belted driver of a small passenger vehicle responding to ten quarter-turn rollover. This single vehicle crash occurred on a four-lane, north/south street traveling through a residential area. There were two lanes for traffic in each direction. For southbound traffic the roadway had a significant uphill grade and was straight, but as it approached the hillcrest there was a sweeping right curve at the top. Once, over the crest, the roadway became straight again. The east roadside consisted of a narrow paved shoulder, a mountable curb and then private property fence lines and mailboxes. In particular there was an overhanging mail box, a telephone utility equipment box and a large rock along the roadside. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the early morning (dark-no street lights) weekend crash. The case vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Toyota Echo 2-door sedan, was traveling southbound in the number-two lane (left). The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row driver and passenger frontal impact air bags. The 24-year-old male driver (case subject) was determined to have been using the belt restraint, as were the two additional occupants, a 26-year-old female front right seat passenger and a 24-year-old male second row right side passenger. The driver of V1 (subject) climbed the up grade with a straight trajectory, however, at the top of the hillcrest the driver continued straight instead of negotiating the right curve. This resulted in the vehicle traveling across the roadway and leaving the opposite side. The driver steered right in an attempt to avoid a collision with a brick fence line. The maneuver resulted in the vehicle traveling (tracking) southbound on the east roadside striking first an over-hanging mail box, then a small telephone utility equipment 'post' with its front. The vehicle then struck a large rock with its front left wheel and undercarriage, primarily, causing the vehicle to rotate counterclockwise until its right rear wheel tripped the vehicle to the right. The vehicle overturned an estimated ten quarter-turns and struck a parked vehicle's front left top with V1's left back top. V1 came to rest on its top facing north (opposite it original heading) The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. The subject (driver) was transported to a trauma facility due to 'severe' injury(s). The two additional occupants declined medical care at the scene.