This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 60 year old male driver of a 2010 Chevrolet Impala (V1), involved in a frontal crash with a 2007 Cadillac SRX (V2). The case vehicle (V1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal air bag air bag deployed as a result of the collision with V2. V1 was traveling westbound on a curved 2 lane undivided road, and V2 was traveling eastbound on the same 2 lane undivided road. For unknown reasons, V2 crossed over the center line and collided head-on with V1. The momentum from the crash pushed V1 to the left and slightly rearward and the right rear side of V1 contacted the guard rail on the north side of the gravel shoulder. V1 came to rest pointed in a southwesterly direction and V2 came to rest pointed in a northeasterly direction against the front of V1. The restrained 60 year old male driver of V1 (case occupant) was seated in an upright posture in his seat. At impact, the case occupant initiated a forward and slight left trajectory in response to the 11 o'clock impact force. During this impact the case occupant's head contacted the A-pillar as evidenced by skin and hair on the A-pillar trim. His right knee contacted the knee bolster directly below the steering wheel and his leg was in direct contact with the knee bolster. During the crash the toe pan also intruded rearward approximately 2 cm and the floor pan under the driver's feet also intruded upward approximately 4 cm. As the driver translated forward in his seat he was restrained by the seat belt as evidenced by the hematomas on his left shoulder and chest and across his lower abdomen. Following the crash, the driver of V1 was transported by ground to the local trauma center and admitted for treatment of his serious injuries. The driver of V2 was taken by ground to a local hospital for treatment but the extent of his injuries is unknown. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.