This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 50 year old restrained male driver of a 2004 Toyota Sienna (V1), impacted in a near side lateral crash by a 2000 Ford E-350 Super Duty Econoline Van (V2). The case vehicle (V1) was equipped with frontal, side thorax and side curtain air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions (the curtain air bags provided coverage for all three rows). The driver frontal air bag and all passenger air bags did not deploy, but the driver side thorax and side curtain air bags deployed as a result of the collision with V2. V1 was traveling southeast in the left turn lane of a two lane undivided road into an intersection with a 4 lane divided road. V2 was traveling southwest into the same intersection in the right hand travel lane of the 4 lane road. For unknown reasons both vehicles continued into the intersection and the front of V2 struck the left side of V1. The momentum of the vehicles after the impact caused them to rotate counterclockwise in the intersection and come to rest in the intersection directly south of the original point of impact. V1 came to rest pointed in an easterly direction and V2 came to rest with its front end against the left side of V1 and pointed in a southerly direction. The restrained 50 year old male driver of V1 (case occupant) was presumed to be seated in an upright posture. At impact, the case occupant initiated a trajectory slightly forward and to the left in response to the 10 o'clock impact force. During the impact the case occupant's left hip and thorax contacted the intruding door panel of the driver door through the side thorax air bag. This intrusion sandwiched the case occupant's hip and pelvis between the door panel and the rigid center console. Following the crash, the driver of V1 was transported to a local trauma center by ground for treatment of his injuries. The driver of V2 was transported to a local hospital with unknown injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.