Vehicle one (V1 - case vehicle), a 2002 Dodge Grand Caravan Sport, minivan was traveling south in the left southbound lane of a four-lane, divided freeway (two lanes southbound, unprotected median, two lanes northbound). Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Chevrolet Malibu, 4-door sedan was traveling north in the left northbound lane of the same freeway. It was daylight, the weather was clear and the concrete road surface was dry. For an unknown reason, the driver of V2 lost control, entered the grassy median while beginning a counter clockwise rotation, and entered the southbound lanes with its right side leading. The driver of V1 was unable to take evasive actions and the front of V1 struck the right side of V2 in an L-type configuration. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling vehicle damage. The driver and right-front passenger of V2 were both reportedly using the three-point seat belts and both sustained fatal injuries. The 38-year-old female driver of V1 (case occupant) was using the available three-point seat belt and the steering-wheel air bag deployed. She was transported via ground ambulance to a regional level-one trauma center and hospitalized. The 6-year-old female, second-row left passenger of V1 (non-case occupant) was inappropriately using the three-point seat belt and was also transported via ground ambulance to a regional level-one trauma center. She sustained minor integumentary injuries (ISS-1). The 3-year-old female second-row right passenger of V1 (non-case occupant) was reportedly using the three-point seat belt in conjunction with a forward-facing child seat and was also transported via ground ambulance to a level-one trauma center . She sustained minor integumentary injuries (ISS-1). The 8-year-old female, third-row right passenger (non-case occupant) was not using the available three-point seat belt and was also transported via ground ambulance to a regional level-one trauma center. She sustained a lower extremity fracture as well as minor integumentary injuries (ISS-10).