This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unbelted 33 year old female driver of a 2006 Saturn Ion coupe. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal air bag deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a bridge (event 2). Vehicle 1 was northbound on a five-lane urban trafficway and proceeding straight in the outboard travel lane. It was dark (street lighted); with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. Vehicle 1 departed the right (east) pavement edge in a forward tracking mode. The right front wheel/tire struck the barrier curb, resulting in minor damage (event 1). The front right area subsequently impacted the concrete parapet end of the bridge rail, which resulted in moderate damage (event 2). At this point, Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise, re-entered the road, and came to rest (in the northbound travel lanes) facing southeast. The unbelted 33 year old female driver of the 2006 Saturn Ion was presumed to be seated slightly out of position, with the seat track adjusted to a full forward position. The driver may have been positioned slightly forward and to the right, due to an interior distraction. The police reported that the driver was restrained; however, interior evidence indicated that the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system was not used. The lack of restraint use was evidenced by the extent of contacts within the driver space, relative to the absence of loading marks on the belt system. Furthermore, the front belts were found restricted in the stowed position by pretensioner deployment. This was confirmed by the vehicle's Event Data Recorder (EDR), which recorded the driver belt switch as "unbuckled". Impact 1 was minor in nature and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the occupant. At impact 2, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the deployed frontal air bag and knee bolster. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the fabric transfers and scuff marks identified across the face of the membrane. Indentations, panel fractures, and scuff marks were documented on the left knee bolster. At this point, the driver loaded through the deployed frontal air bag and deformed the (upper/lower) steering wheel rim. Column compression was also noted at the shear capsules. Localized fractures on the windshield suggested possible upper extremity contact. Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital where she was treated and released. The driver of Vehicle 1 sought treatment again later, and subsequently admitted to a trauma center for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.