Vehicle one (V1 - case vehicle), a 2005 Chevrolet Colorado, 2-door, regular cab, 4x2 pickup truck was traveling north in the right northbound lane of a three-lane commercial driveway (one southbound right turn lane, one southbound left turn lane, and one northbound lane - local usage) and was approaching a T-type intersection with a six lane, east-west roadway. Vehicle two (V2) a 1994 Chrysler Intrepid, 4-door sedan was traveling east on this six-lane roadway (one eastbound right turn lane, two-eastbound through lanes, one eastbound left turn lane, and two westbound through lanes) in the right eastbound through-lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 1970 Chevrolet Camaro, 2-door coupe was traveling south in the southbound left turn lane of a six-lane road that intersects the six-lane east-west road to the east of the commercial driveway that V1 was traveling on. It was daylight, the weather was clear, and the bituminous road surface was dry. As V1 was traveling north, some cargo (approximately 16 kg/35 lbs of boxed paperwork) that was on the right-front seat shifted to the floor and part of that cargo reportedly jammed the driver's cane against the accelerator pedal causing the vehicle to accelerate. The driver of V1 initially attempted to brake, then attempted to avoid a collision with V2 by turning right onto the intersecting roadway, but the left side of V1 sideswiped the right side of V2. V1 continued to accelerate and the driver of V1 maneuvered V1 into the left west-bound lane to avoid the eastbound traffic that was stopped for a traffic signal at the intersection with the road that V3 was traveling on. The driver of V1 again attempted to brake but was unable to remove the cargo and release the accelerator pedal. V1 traveled several hundred meters in the westbound lane and attempted to pass through the intersection by crossing the intersection diagonally so as to enter back into the eastbound lanes to the east of this intersection. The driver of V3 was unaware of V1 and attempted to execute a left turn from the southbound left turn lane onto the eastbound roadway but the front of V1 struck the right-side of V3 in an oblique, T-type configuration. The final rest of all three vehicle is unknown. V1 and V3 were towed from the scene due to disabling vehicle damage, while V2 was driven away. The 47-year-old female driver of V1 (case occupant) was not using the available three-point seat belt but the steering-wheel air bag deployed. She was transported via ground ambulance to a local hospital and later transferred to a regional level-one trauma center with severe injuries. The 72-year-old female driver of V2 was reportedly using the available three-point seat belt and no air bags deployed. She was reportedly uninjured and drove herself away from the scene. The 36-year-old male driver of V3 was reportedly using the available 2-point lap belt and no air bags were available in this vehicle. He was transported to a local hospital via ground ambulance with unknown injuries. The 35-year-old female, right-front passenger of V3 was not using any belt restraint (reportedly none available) and she was transported via helicopter to a regional level-one trauma center where whe was pronounced dead upon arrival. The 11-year-old male right-rear passenger of V3 was not using any belt restraint (reportedly none available) and was transported via ground ambulance to a local hospital with unknown injuries.