The case occupant is the 185 cm, 94 kg (6 ft 1 in, 207 lb), 83-year-old male driver of a 2001 Ford E150 passenger van who relinquished control of his vehicle due to a medical condition. The van departed the left side fo the road striking a wooden fence, sideswiping a metal building, then striking two different landscaping brick walls (knocking both down) before coming to rest. The wooden fence impact was classified as moderate due to the penetration of broken fence parts into the passenger compartment. The left sideswipe to the metal building was classified as minor. The two brick wall impacts were overlapping and together were classified as severe. The WinSMASH reconstruction program calculated an equivilent barrier speed of 68 km/h (42 mph) which appeared to be reasonable when compared to the observed vehicle damage. The case occupant was using the available three-point seat belt but no air bags deployed during this multiple event crash. Prior to the initial impact, the driver was presumed to be seat in an upright manner but perhaps began to slump forward toward the steering-wheel due to his level of consciousness. During the first impact, the driver moved slightly forward in response to the 12 o'clock direction of force. When the second, sideswipe impact occurred, he may have moved slightly to the left, relative to the vehicle interior, in response to the vehicle being slightly redirected back to the right. During the third and fourth impacts, the dirver would have moved foreward, relative to the vehicle interior, in response to the 12 o'clock direction of force from each of these impacts. Neither the steering-wheel air bag nor the dash-mounted air bag deployed during any of these events. The driver sustained a left frontal lobe contusion probably from head contact with the steering-wheel (combination rim, spoke & hub). He sustained a sternal fracture, ten rib fractures (left #2-7, right #2-4), a left chest contusion and a right lung contusion from chest contact with the shoulder belt. He also sustained bilateral knee contusions from contact with the knee bolster. The case occupant died from these injuries and complications 19-days post-crash.