The focus of this case is on an 18-year old, female driver (case occupant), of a 2000 Hyundai Elantra (V1), involved in a frontal impact with a 2005 Chevrolet full size pickup truck (V2) followed by a secondary impact on the left rear of V1 by a 2000 Dodge full size pickup truck (V3). This multiple vehicle collision occurred during the late afternoon hours (daylight), of an autumn weekday (Thursday), on a curved sloped section of a two-lane roadway. This bituminous roadway runs east and west. The weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The speed limit for the north/south roadway is 89 km/h (55 mph). The 18-year old female driver (case occupant) was operating V1 in the eastbound travel lane. She was wearing her 3-point lap/shoulder belt and had the benefit of an advanced frontal impact air bag. For unknown reasons, V1 crossed the centerline and impacted V2 in an offset frontal crash configuration. As a result of the impact, V1's driver frontal impact air bag and the passenger frontal impact air bag deployed. V3, also traveling eastbound behind V1, attempted to avoid the collision but V1 spun into the direct path of V3 as it was coming to a stop. As a result, the front right bumper of V3 impacted the left rear side plane of V1. After the initial impact, V2 rotated counterclockwise and departed the westbound travel lane to the right onto the paved shoulder, coming to final rest pointed in a southerly direction after contacting the roadside guardrail with its right rear bumper. After the initial impact with V1, V2 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest pointed in a northwesterly direction blocking both east and westbound travel lanes of the 2 lane roadway. V3 braked, with lockup, but was unable to avoid V1 and impacted the left rear side of V1. V2 came to rest pointed in a northeasterly direction next to V1 in the eastbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was removed from the vehicle and transported, by air rescue, to a trauma center and hospitalized with serious injuries. All other occupants, the driver V2, and the driver of V3 were transported to a local medical facility. The extent of their injuries and/or treatments is unknown. All three vehicles were towed due to damage sustained in the crash.