Vehicle one (V1 - case vehicle), a 2006 Chevrolet Impala, 4-door sedan was traveling east in the left eastbound lane of a four-lane, limited-access, divided freeway (two lanes westbound, unprotected median, two lanes eastbound). Vehicle 2 (V2), an unknown make/model 2001interstate commercial passenger bus was traveling east in the right eastbound lane and was slightly behind V1. It was daylight, the weather was clear, and the asphalt road surface was dry. For an unknown reason, the driver of V1 lost control of his vehicle and he ran off the left side of the road. The driver returned V1 to the road but came back to the right too far and began to enter the right eastbound lane. The driver then overcorrected and steered left causing V1 to enter into a counterclockwise rotation. The driver of V2 could not avoid V1 and the front of V2 struck the left side of V1 in an oblique configuration. The impact casued V1 to accelerate forward and to the north, crossing the grassy median, the westbound lanes and departing the north side of the freeway. The front of V1 struck and came to rest against a tree on the north side of the freeway. V2 came to a controlled stop east of the initial impact area. V1 was towed from the scene due to disabling vehicle damage. V2 was driven away. The 57-year-old male driver of V1 (case occupant) was using the available three-point seat belt and no air bags deployed. He was transported via ground ambulance to a regional level-one trauma center with severe (AIS-4) injuries. The 59-year-old female right-front passenger of V1 (case occupant) was also using the available three-point seat belt and no air bags deployed. She was also transported via ground ambulance to a regional level-one trauma center with serious (AIS-3) injuries. The 16-year-old male left-rear passenger was using the available three-point seat belt. He was transported via air ambulance to a regional level-one trauma center with serious (AIS-3) injuries. The 15-year-old female right-rear passenger was using the available three-point seat belt. She was transported via ground ambulance to a regional level-one trauma center with minor (AIS-1) injuries and was treated and released.