This one-vehicle crash occurred during evening hours on an east/west roadway, during clear dusk conditions. The road consists of two eastbound lanes and five westbound lanes, divided by a painted median strip with overhead lighting. The west bound lanes are as follows: lane one is a right turn lane, lane five is a left turn lane, the three middle lanes all go straight. The speed limit is 58 kmph (35 mph).

Vehicle one, a 2000 Ford Crown Victoria Police Interceptor model, carrying two occupants, was traveling westbound in lane two. For unknown reasons, the vehicle changed to the number one lane to the right went up onto the curb and struck a light pole with its front. There were straight pre-crash braking skid marks leading up to the pole impact. After impact, the vehicle rotated clockwise slightly and came to final rest across the number one travel lane. The vehicle was towed due to damage & the force of the impact was sufficient enough to deploy the driver & passenger frontal airbags. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver was a twenty-four year old male that fled the scene after the crash, but turned himself into the police several hours later, the driver was not injured. The right front occupant was transported to a hospital by a personally owned vehicle with a non-incapacitating injury. Both the driver and passenger refused to give any information about the crash. According to the police report, a company owns the vehicle. Since the driver was not charged with theft of the vehicle it is assumed he had permission to drive the vehicle. The driver's license had a suspended status.

The Critical Pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. There was no indication of vehicle condition factors or environmental factors for this crash. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded to vehicle one, as an unknown type of driver error. It is unknown why the driver made the lane change and then departed the roadway impacting the pole.