This single vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours with clear weather and dry pavement when the driver drifted to the right of the travel lane, departed the roadway and the front of V1 collided with a wooden utility pole. V1 continued forward and the front contacted a street sign. V1, a 1989 Ford Econoline Cargo van occupied only by the unrestrained 18-year-old female driver, was traveling east on a bituminous, +3 slope, two-lane, two-way undivided roadway. Driver has no recollection as to the events that led to the collision. The last thing driver remembers was stopping at a four way intersection, approximately 100 meters prior to the collision area, and proceeding forward. No reliable person witnessed the collision, although two were listed on the police report. The posted speed limit on this roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). The driver was transported with complaint of injury; V1 was towed due to damage. V1 was not equipped with any airbag.

Upon completing two interviews with driver the following facts were gathered about the possible driver's physical and mental state. Driver suffers from no physical condition such as diabetes, epilepsy, etc. and is on no medications. Driver was more likely to be under physical and mental fatigue due to the number of hours worked and having moved into an apartment one week prior to collision. Driver holds two jobs and works an average of 13 hours a day. The week preceding the collision driver worked 67 hours and spent her spare time moving into an apartment. On the day of the collision, driver was on one of two non-work days. Driver had slept 7 hours and had been up for 7 hours at the time of collision. At the time of collision, driver was going to meet her father and get some more personal belongings to move into her apartment. Based on these findings it is presumed that driver may have had a fatigue related partial sleep episode prior to the first event. As a result of the sleep, the driver drifted off roadway and struck utility pole, which awoke driver. The critical pre-crash event was coded "this vehicle traveling-off the edge of the road on the right side." The critical reason was coded "sleeping, that is, actually asleep." Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.
