This two vehicle crash occurred shortly after noon during daylight hours on a two-lane, two-way, level, bituminous roadway that runs east to west and curves sharply to the left for the westbound lane and sharply to the right for eastbound lane. The posted speed limit at the crash location was 56 kmph, or 35 mph. The centerline was double striped with orange plastic warning pylons and the right edge of the westbound lane had Chevron curve warning signs. There were also Chevron curve warning signs posted on the left edge of the eastbound lane. The roadway was dry at the time of the crash and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Mercedes Benz M class SUV, was traveling westbound negotiating a sharp left curve. Vehicle two (V2), a 1991 Oldsmobile Cutlass, was traveling eastbound negotiating a sharp right curve. V1 crossed over the left lane line and the front of V1 contacted the front of V2. Post-impact, V1 rotated slightly counterclockwise and came to rest on the south edge of the eastbound lane while V2 rotated counterclockwise came to rest on the south edge of the eastbound lane adjacent to a utility pole. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. Neither vehicle had mechanical defects that contributed to the crash. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 78-year-old male who was very comfortable with the vehicle and the passenger load. The driver of V1 drives this roadway weekly and was driving his son to a restaurant at the time of the crash. This driver was retired and worked part-time. He had maintained a normal sleeping schedule (9 hours per night) and was not drowsy or fatigued at the time of the crash. He had recently undergone right knee surgery and had been to physical therapy the morning of the crash. He described the physical therapy as "strenuous". He was taking the prescription medication Pravachol (for high cholesterol), Prandin (for Type 1 diabetes) and Avalide (for high blood pressure). The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was attributed to the driver of V1 as a driver related factor of: poor directional control. The driver failed to maintain control of his vehicle within his travel lane and crossed into the oncoming traffic lane of travel. This was mainly attributed to poor control of the vehicle along with associative factors of recent knee surgery and physical therapy earlier in the day that was strenuous.

The driver of V2 was a 35-year-old male who was unemployed at the time of the crash. He was talking to his wife and daughter just prior to the critical event. He drives the route daily and is familiar with the vehicle and was returning from the grocery store. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.