The crash occurred in the southbound right lane of a north/south four-lane arterial road. There were two lanes northbound and two lanes southbound. The shoulders were paved, and the driveway and parking lot on the west side of the roadway had a -6% grade. The roadway is divided by a grass median with paved crossovers to allow access to either side of the roadway. The posted speed limit is 72kmph (45mph). The crash occurred in the late evening hours on a weekday. It was dark and unlit with no adverse weather conditions.

Vehicle 2, a 1989 Toyota Corolla, was traveling southbound in the right lane of the arterial roadway. Vehicle 1, a 1988 Ford F250 pickup, was turning left at a crossover from the northbound side of the arterial roadway across the southbound lanes intending to go into a private lot on the west side of the roadway. As Vehicle 1 crossed the southbound lanes it was impacted on the right side by the front of Vehicle 2. Vehicle 2 then pushed Vehicle 1 south and west approximately 10 meters, down the -6% grade and into an unpaved portion of the lot. Vehicle 1's left tires then tripped in the dirt and Vehicle 1 rolled one quarter turn onto its left side and came to rest about 18 meters southwest of point of impact with Vehicle 2's front coming to rest against Vehicle 1's undercarriage. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle 1 was driven by a 36 year old unrestrained male who was on his way from work to have his truck looked at by a mechanic due to transmission trouble. There were no airbags available in Vehicle 1, and the driver was transported to a local trauma center where he was treated for non-incapacitating injuries.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for Vehicle 1 was this vehicle traveling: turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was a decision error: misjudgment of gap or others' speed. Contributing factors were difficult to code because the driver was untruthful in most statements in the interview. The driver was on medication for drug abuse but an unknown dosage and unknown time of most recent use. The driver of Vehicle 1 also stated that he was having a discussion with a co-worker from whom he was buying the truck that was in the vehicle at the time.

Vehicle 2 was driven by a 38 year old female who was belted with no airbag available. She was transported to a local trauma center for treatment of non -incapacitating injuries. Nothing else is known about this driver, as after repeated attempts, the researcher was unable to contact the driver or any known relatives.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for Vehicle 2 was other vehicle encroaching- from opposite direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. The only potential associated contributing factor known about this driver is that she was on three different medications thyroid, depression, and high blood pressure per medical records. The possible side effects for the depression medication are sleeplessness, drowsiness, tiredness, weakness, dizziness, light-headedness.