A crash occurred late afternoon. Three vehicles involved two passenger cars and one SUV. The location is a two lane divided (without positive barrier, four lanes overall) straight roadway. The weather was clear and the road surface blacktop and dry. The traffic was stopped and backed up for a traffic light. It was dark, but the roadway was illuminated.

V 1 a 2001 GMC Yukon, driven by a 41 year-old male was traveling south in the second lane of traffic. V 2 a 2005 Honda Accord driven by a 26 year-old male and V 3 a 2000 BMW 323 driven by a 52 year-old male were stopped in lane 2. Two more vehicles were stopped in front of V 3. Another vehicles were stopped in front of V 3 at the same distance. A sixth vehicle involved was stopped in lane 1. V 1 was coming downhill approaching the stopped traffic ahead. The driver tried to bring the vehicle to a stop by applying a hand operated brake system. The right front corner of V 1 impacted the rear of V 2. V 2 rotated clockwise and moved forward. The front of V 2 rotated clockwise and impacted the rear of V 3. V 3 was pushed forward and under rode the vehicle in front of it. This vehicle moved forward and rear-ended another vehicle in front of it. V 2 moved over the right lane line into the first lane and impacted the left side of another vehicle stopped in traffic. V 1 after the first impact moved into the gap in the median and started to rotate clockwise. It came to rest partially in the gap and partially on the south median about 150 cm short of a tree located on the median. V 1, V 2 and V 3 were towed from the scene. All other vehicles drove from the scene. The drivers of V 2 and 3 refused treatment by the ambulance despite minor injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The pre-event movement for V 1 was coded going straight, The category other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event was coded "inadequate evasive action ". The driver would not reveal any information that would indicate why applied his brakes to late. He grew agitated during the interview and refused further information after a while.

The pre-event movement of V 2 coded stopped in traffic lane . The category other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed. No critical reason for the critical event was coded to these vehicle. The pre-event movement of V 3 stopped in traffic lane, category other not involved in forst harmful event. No critical reason coded to this vehicle..