The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a two-way, twelve-lane interstate roadway divided by a concrete barrier wall. There were six northbound lanes. This was a level, asphalt roadway that curved slightly to the right. The posted speed was 105 kmph (65 mph). Conditions were dark with streetlights, on a weekday evening with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 1999 Honda Civic with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane one. V2, a 2000 Toyota Avalon with two occupants, was traveling in lane three. V3, a 2004 BMW 545I with one occupant, was traveling in lane four. A phantom vehicle encroached into V1's travel lane. The driver of V1 lost control of the vehicle as she attempted to avoid the phantom vehicle. V1 rotated counterclockwise as it traveled into V2's lane. The front of V1 made contact with the right side of V2. Subsequently, V2 lost control, rotating 180 degrees as it traveled backwards. V1 then traveled into V3's lane. The front of V3 made minor contact with the left side of V1. V1 then traveled into lane six (the High Occupance Vehicle lane) where the front of an unknown pickup truck made contact with the left side of V1. V1 came to final rest on the inside emergency lane facing south. V2 came to final rest in lane six, facing south. The front left corner of V2 was struck once again by an unknown passenger car as it swiped by the stopped vehicle. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. All occupants refused treatment. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Honda Civic, was driven by a 38-year old female, who was not injured. She indicated that she was on her way to visit her brother, and was in the exit lane of the interstate, when a vehicle cut her off. She lost control of her vehicle when she jerked the wheel to the right, and then overcorrected to the left as she applied the brakes. She remembered spinning out of control across all six lanes of traffic, making contact with multiple vehicles along the way.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on left side of travel lane". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a performance error, overcompensation. The driver of V1 successfully avoided the phantom vehicle, but subsequently lost control of the vehicle due to overcorrective steering. There were no associated factors coded for this driver.

V2, the Toyota Avalon, was driven by a 43-year old male who was not injured. He stated that he and his passenger were on their way home from a doctor's appointment. He indicated that V1 spun out of control and hit him, causing him to lose control of his vehicle as well.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane over right lane line". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. A potential associated factor for this driver could have been driver inattention. The driver was focused on a family problem.

V3, the BMW 545I, was driven by a 35-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he was on his way to play racquetball. Out of the corner of his eye he saw a vehicle coming towards him. He fully applied his antilock brakes, almost avoiding contact with V1.

The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to V3. This vehicle was not involved in the first harmful event. There were no associated factors for this driver, which would have contributed to the crash.