The crash occurred at an intersection of a north/south rural road and an east/west residential road. The north/south road had two lanes and was two-way with solid double yellow lines. The roadway was straight with a negative 2% grade approximately 40 meters pre-crash. The area of the intersection was level. The residential street intersected on the east side of the rural roadway had a small raised island at the entry to the subdivision along with a decorative brick wall with landscaping adorning the southeast corner of the intersection. The posted speed limit for both roadways was 48 KPH (30 MPH). Conditions were dusk, unlit, and dry at the time of the crash on a weekday evening.

Vehicle #1 was a 1996 Pontiac Sunfire that was traveling south on the rural road. It attempted to turn left (east) on the residential roadway, intending to turn around and head back north on the rural road. The driver did not complete the left turn and went over the right (south) curb of the residential street, heading southeast, and struck the decorative brick wall with Vehicle #1's front right corner. Vehicle #1 came to rest at impact and was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

Vehicle #1 was driven by a 17-year old belted male that was uninjured in the crash and whose airbags deployed. He was accompanied by a 14-year old male passenger who was listed on the police report as having possible injuries but refused treatment. The driver and passenger were taken into police custody on scene and charged with underage consumption of alcohol.

The Critical Pre-crash Cvent for Vehicle #1 was off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was poor directional control due to intoxication admitted to by the driver. The driver stated in the interview that he had consumed at least ten beers in the two hours previous to driving the vehicle. The driver, although he said he had no medical conditions, also admitted to being on two different medications both of which interact poorly with alcohol. The researcher also believes that the driver was traveling too fast for the type of left turn maneuver that he was attempting. It was also the drivers first time driving this vehicle; he had just bought the vehicle 20 hours before the crash. At 17-years old he would also be considered an inexperienced driver.