The crash occurred on a two way, two-lane secondary arterial road that ran north/south through a rural residential area. The roadway was straight and level at the crash location although there was a negative 5% grade (if northbound) 100 meters south of the crash location. There was a guardrail on the east (right) side of the road with a drainage ditch that ran parallel to the road to its right. About 4 meters east of the road there was also a walk bridge that was also parallel to the road used to span a creek that ran under the road (the drain ditch empties into the creek). A negative 25% side slope was measured at the road departure point just south of the south end of the guardrail. Conditions were dark and unlit on a weekend night with a speed limit of 64KPH (40MPH).

Vehicle #1 was a 1999 Chevrolet Cavalier traveling north on the road when it departed the right side of the road and struck the south end of the guardrail with its front. It climbed over the guardrail and rolled ¼ turn to its right striking a concrete bridge piling (for the walk bridge) with the top of its hood, then sliding on its right side and coming to rest with its rear end in the creek bed and its front facing north (still on its right side) and partially up the creeks north bank. Vehicle #1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

Vehicle #1 was driven by a twenty two year old female who was belted and the beneficiary of deployed airbags. She told the researcher that she had looked down to her right to go through her CD collection on the right front seat with the intention of retrieving one to listen to. Apparently her vehicle drifted to its right and departed the road. She was transported to a local trauma center by EMS.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for Vehicle #1 was off the road on the right side and the Critical Reason for the Critical Event was an internal distraction. Associated factors included poor directional control. The driver stated that she only uses that road a few times per month to break up her commute home so she is not as familiar with it as her normal route. Too fast for conditions was also coded. The driver was wearing glasses to correct a nearsighted condition.