This three-vehicle crash occurred on an eastbound four-lane expressway. The expressway consists of four eastbound lanes, the first lane being an exit lane to another expressway. Wide shoulders border the roadway, and to the north is a concrete median that separates these lanes from the westbound lanes of the expressway. The speed limit on the expressway was 89 kph (55 mph). There was traffic congestion due to morning rush hour. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Dodge Neon was traveling eastbound in the second lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Ford Mustang was ahead of V1 stopped in the first lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 2000 Dodge Caravan carrying one occupant, was stopped in the first lane ahead of the V2. V1 changed lanes from the second lane to the first lane and impacted the rear of V2 with its front plane. The front of V2 impacted the rear of V3. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. V3 was not towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 37-year old female had been driving for approximately 19 years. She was familiar with the vehicle, but rarely drove this roadway. The night prior, she had stayed at a hotel for a business meeting. After sleeping for seven hours, she awoke and drove into the city for work. She had traveled roughly 16 kilometers (10 miles) before the crash occurred.

The driver of V2, a fifty-four year old female indicated that traffic was stop and go and that she had come to a stop in the exit lane for a few seconds. She happened to check her rearview mirror and saw a green vehicle approaching quickly. She remembered seeing the very wide eyes the driver who was wearing glasses. She stated she had no time to react. This driver had driven this vehicle about five times in the last month and only rarely on this roadway.

The driver of V3, a thirty-seven year old male was stopped in the first lane. This driver was driving to work and had been driving for one hour and fifteen minutes at the time of the crash. This driver drives this road and vehicle daily.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on right side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: external distraction. The driver of V1 was distracted by the traffic in the first lane while attempting to merge, causing her to neglect the truck to her left.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.