The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a two-way, six-lane, divided roadway with concrete curbed grass median. There were three southbound and three northbound lanes. This was a straight, level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 72 kmph (45 mph). Conditions were early afternoon on a weekend with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was congested, with stop-and-go activity.

V1, a 2002 Dodge Stratus with three occupants, was traveling in lane two. V2, a 2004 Honda Civic with three occupants, was traveling in lane one. V3, a 2004 Toyota Highlander with one occupant, was traveling in lane one, directly in front of V2. A car in front of V1 began to slow down for traffic ahead. In order to avoid a collision, V1 swerved right, locking the brakes. V1 skidded approximately 22.5 meters (74 feet), traveling into lane one. V2 was in the process of changing lanes, to pass V3, when the front of V1 made contact with the back of V2. The impact pushed V2 into the second lane, and V1 continued moving in lane one. V3 was beginning to accelerate in lane one when the front of V1 made contact with the back of V3. All vehicles came to final rest within 5 meters (16 ft.) of each other. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

V1, the Dodge Stratus, was driven by a 20-year old male who reported no injuries. He advised that he and the driver of V2 had just come from picking up friends, and were both heading to the beach for an air show. He advised that he was traveling at about 72 kmph (45 mph) when he made the evasive action to avoid rear-ending a vehicle that stopped suddenly in front of him. He successfully avoided the phantom vehicle, but was unable to stop in time to avoid hitting V2 and V3.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with low, steady speed.” The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a decision error - traveling too fast for conditions to be able to respond to unexpected actions of other road users. Although the driver of V1 may not have been speeding, he was traveling too fast for the congested, stop-and-go traffic flow. One associated factor for this driver was fatigue. The driver works two jobs, totaling over sixty hours of work per week. He normally gets up to 12 hours of sleep on his day off, but got only 4 hours of sleep prior to the crash. Another associated factor could be work stress - the driver of V1 reported pressure from his job(s). An associated factor coded to all three drivers was the traffic flow interruption in the form of the congestion with a stop-and-go traffic pattern.

V2, the 2004 Honda Civic, was driven by a 21-year old male who reported no injuries. He stated that he was in the right through lane behind V3. He was traveling less than 16 kmph (10 mph). The driver began to change lanes to the left to pass V3, when his friend, who was driving V1, hit him from behind, pushing V2 into the middle through lane.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was “other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to this driver include a conversation with his passenger and the stop-and-go traffic pattern.

V3, the 2004 Toyota Highlander, was driven by a 35-year old female who reported neck and back soreness, but refused treatment. She stated that she was stopped for traffic in front of her. Just as she began to accelerate, she heard a crash behind her, followed immediately by an impact from behind.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. Therefore, no Critical Precrash Event or Critical Reason was coded to the driver of the Highlander. The only associated factor coded to this driver was the stop-and-go traffic pattern.