This crash involved a single vehicle that struck a guardrail and then rolled over off the roadway on a two way, divided dry asphalt roadway. The crash occurred during daylight morning hours; there were no roadway deficiencies and no sight restrictions noted. There were no adverse weather conditions and the weather was clear. The speed limit on the roadway where the crash occurred is posted at 121 kmph (75 mph).

Vehicle one (V-1), a 2004 Toyota 4-door Camry, was traveling westbound in the number two lane decelerating in the traffic lane waiting for a truck tractor to pass in the number one lane. The driver intended to travel in lane one. V-1 was traveling at a driver-estimated speed of approximately 97 kmph (60 mph) when the right rear tread separated from the tire. The vehicle then traveled partially over the left lane line into the emergency lane before the vehicle traveled to the right as the vehicle began to rotate clockwise. The vehicle then traveled across the westbound lane while rotating clockwise and skidding laterally. The vehicle traveled into the right emergency lane where the front of the vehicle struck a guardrail and a wooden post. The vehicle continued to rotate clockwise as it traveled off the right side of the roadway and backward up an embankment and then rolled to the right 4 quarter turns before coming to rest on its wheels off the right side of the roadway facing in a westerly direction. The tread on the right rear tire was not on the tire but was located during the vehicle inspection and a tread depth of 6 millimeters (8/32") was measured. The other three tires on the vehicle were deflated. The vehicle was towed due to damage. The driver was transported from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The critical pre crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle control loss due to, non-disabling vehicle problem (tread separated). The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a vehicle related factor: Tires/wheels failed.