A daytime collision occurred shortly after noon during daylight hours on a Wednesday. The collision events occurred in the HOV or fifth northbound travel lane on a ten-lane divided interstate highway with five lanes in each direction bordered by shoulders and separated by a center median Jersey barrier. The pre-crash roadway is straight and level concrete paving. Access to the roadway is fully controlled. The posted speed limit for the roadway is 97 kmph (60 mph)

Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Ford Thunderbird coupe was heading north in the fifth lane of the highway. A wheel from vehicle one (V1), a 1991 Mercury Tracer sedan, that traveling southbound on the highway had become detached and bounced over the center median jersey barrier and into the fifth lane of the northbound lanes. When the tire came down into the fifth lane, it struck V2 at the top center of the windshield. V2 came to a stop and the collision events were stabilized. There is damage to the rear of Vehicle 2 from a separate collision which occurred after this collision had stabilized. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 drove to the shoulder of the roadway after losing its tire assembly and was towed from the scene. V2 was towed from the scene with damage from this collision to its windshield and roof. V2 had additional damage to its rear from a subsequent crash. The only injury reported was complaint of pain to the chest for the driver of.

The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle control loss due to, disabling vehicle failure (e.g. wheel fell off) (specified as: The left front wheel came off of this vehicle). Only three lug nuts were holding the wheel attached to the vehicle when one lug nut broke off the wheel became detached.). The Critical Reason for the collision was attributed to V1 as a vehicle factor: Tires/wheels failed. Due to a lack of an interview with the driver of V1 no additional factors are known for him.

The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the collision was not assigned to V2. The driver of V2 was conversing with the right front passenger at the time of the collision. The driver also indicated that he's required to drive a far distance for work and was upset about it. There were no additional factors noted for this driver.