The crash occurred on the westbound lanes on a highway with three lanes in each direction, divided by a median barrier wall, at the point where an entrance ramp joins the right lane. The posted speed limit for the highway is 113kmh (70mph) for cars and 89kmh (55mph) for trucks. At the time of the weekday afternoon crash, traffic was heavy but moving at close to the posted limit. Conditions were clear and dry on the straight bituminous road, which sloped >2% upward at the point of impact.

V2, a 2002 International 9400 truck tractor without a trailer, was traveling in lane one going 89kmh (55mph). As v2 neared the straight, level, entrance ramp, v1, a 1999 Chrysler Concorde, was traveling on the ramp about to merge onto the highway. Due to the congested traffic conditions, the 34 year-old male driver of v2 could not move from his position in lane one. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, driven by a 37 year-old female, came to the end of the ramp traveling at approximately the same speed as v2. The left side of v1 struck the right second axle tire of v2, as v1 entered lane one of the highway. The witness traveling behind the truck stated that at the last second, v1 swerved to the right in an apparent attempt to avoid contact with v2. The driver of v1 then swerved to the left, and back again to the right at which time v1 spun clockwise and left the roadway onto the right shoulder, and then down a >2% grassy slope. The front of v1 struck a cement wall which ran parallel to the roadway 12 meters from the shoulder. V1 rotated counterclockwise and the right side of v1 struck the wall as v1 continued traveling westward. The front of v1 contacted the wall as v1 rotated clockwise again, and then finally v1 continued to rotate clockwise until it came to rest with the left side against the wall. In addition to the wall, v1 struck several small trees planted in front of the wall along the 15 meters between impact #2 and impact #5. V1 came to rest facing northeast and was towed from the scene due to damage. The driver of v1 was transported from the scene to a local trauma center.

The Critical Precrash Event coded for the driver of v1 was "this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the left side of travel lane." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as 'unknown driver error.' The driver refused to give an interview after stating that she works and goes to school full-time and is very stressed and does not have time to talk. The crash occurred at a freeway entrance ramp near the driver's home.

The Critical Precrash Event coded for the driver of v2 was "other vehicle encroachment from entrance to limited access highway". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this driver. The driver of v2 pulled the still driveable truck over onto the right shoulder following the crash. The driver reported no injuries. When interviewed on-scene, the driver stated that he observed v1 on the ramp pre-crash, and tracked its' movement with his right convex mirror, and thought the driver would slow to merge behind him as his vehicle was partially ahead of hers. The driver further stated that due to vehicles in lane two, he could not move over to avoid v1, nor did he brake, which may have resulted in striking v1 with the front of his truck. The driver stated that he had no safe way to avoid contact with v1. The driver of v2 had been trained in two truck driving courses, one through a community college and one through the trucking company. The driver had 18 months experience and had driven v2 more than 10 times and was comfortable driving it with and without trailers. The driver had dropped his last trailer early in the morning, then slept in the sleeper cab for 10 hours, woke up and had driven 20 miles towards picking up his next trailer when the crash occurred. The driver had driven on that part of that highway 10 or 11 times. He held a valid driver's license with endorsements for Hazardous Materials, doubles and triples. The driver was wearing his required corrective lenses. V2 was inspected on-scene and no mechanical defects were found. The damage to the truck consisted of slight scraping on a metal splash guard and the right tire on the second axle.

An Associated Factor was coded to the driver of v2 for possible side effects of sleepiness and disorientation from his prescribed medication for high blood pressure.