This two-vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane, downhill, straight, bituminous roadway. This roadway contains two-way traffic and has a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions present at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a white 2005 Chevrolet Express cargo work van loaded with cleaning equipment, was stopped facing north in lane one. V1 was stopped in the traffic lane waiting to make a left turn into a private drive. Vehicle two (V2), a dark blue 2004 Honda Accord sedan was traveling northbound. A 17-year old female drove the Honda Accord sedan on her way to high school. She was about 1.6 kilometers (1 mile) from school and didn't have to be there for another 15 minutes when the crash occurred. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1 and 0 kmph for V2.

The front of V2 impacted with the rear of V1. Post-impact, V1 deflected forward and to the left. It came to rest facing north across the road on the shoulder of lane two. Post-impact, V2 deflected forward and to the right. The right side of V2 then impacted a V-ditch, continued forward and came to rest in the ditch facing north. V1 contained two occupants none of whom were injured. V2 contained one occupant who received an incapacitating injury and was transported to a local trauma center for treatment. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event of this crash for V2 was coded: other vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V2 as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed. The driver of V2 indicated she was looking forward prior to the collision and her initial perspective indicated that V1 was in motion. By the time she realized it was actually stopped, she was unable to avoid the collision.