The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a two-way, four-lane divided highway. The grassy median had metal guardrails only along the bridge supports on either side of the road as it passed under an overpass. The cement road was level and curved to the left. It was late afternoon just prior to dusk on a weekday and had begun to snow shortly before the crash, lightly covering the road. The posted speed limit on the highway was 113km/h (70mph).

Vehicle 1, a 1994 Isuzu short bed pickup truck driven by a 21 year old male, was traveling east in lane one at approximately 89km/h (55mph) when the back of his truck began to fishtail on the snowy road as v1 came in contact with an icy area. The driver pumped the brakes and attempted to steer left and right to control the vehicle. The back of the truck swung to the left and V1 left the roadway on the right side with the left side leading. V1 traveled laterally in a clockwise rotation down an embankment until the tires dug in and tripped V1 into a rollover as the embankment then began to slope upward. V1 rolled 4 quarter turns with the left side leading and then rolled back 1 quarter turn onto the driver's side as V1 swung around facing back toward the highway and came to final rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The fully restrained uninjured driver of V1 exited the vehicle through the open backlight area. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event coded for V1 was “this vehicle control loss due to traveling too fast for conditions”. The snow at the time of the crash had not been falling long enough for the driver of V1 (or most others in the area) to adjust his speed accordingly. The cold pavement, particularly under the overpass, was conducive to creating slippery, icy patches. The driver's stated travel speed was below the posted limit but that was related to evening rush hour traffic. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as “Environmental/Highway related-slick roads (low friction road surface due to ice”. A driver decision error was coded for “traveling too fast for conditions-did not realize caution was required” due to the fact that the driver did not recognize the need to slow down as soon as it began to snow. Although the driver had only been driving the truck full time for a few months, the crash occurred at the end of a record setting winter season of snowfall, possibly indicating more of a decision error than inexperience.

One possible Contributing Factor for this crash was the 6 x 50# sandbags located in the bed of the compact pick-up truck. The driver put them in to add weight and they were put in lined up in 2 rows of three from wheel well to wheel well right in the middle of the bed. The driver described the rear of the truck as spinning out as soon as he hit the icy patch, and then fishtailing/wagging back and forth. Additionally, another Contributing Factor was coded for the vehicle tires as the driver described the tires on the truck as in poor condition and at inspection the pressure in the rear tires was found to be 19 and 22 pounds per square inch and the tread of all four tires was measured at 3 and 4 32nds of an inch each.

A possible Associated Factor was noted for frequency of driving the road, as the driver stated that he was driving that route home after his first day of work at a new job, but one he held 5 years prior. Although he was familiar with the road, he had not driven on it in the recent past. However the roadway environment was similar to most of the highways in the area.

The driver of v1 was wearing contact lenses to correct a myopic condition, but indicated no other health related conditions. The driver has a valid driver's license with no endorsements, and was in compliance with his corrective lenses restriction. The driver does not take any medication, and there were no reported alcohol, illegal drugs, sleep, emotional or distraction factors contributing to the crash.