This two vehicle crash occurred couple hours before mid-night in a four legged intersection on a divided roadway. This roadway is asphalt constructed with the east to west lanes having a left curve on the east side approach. The north to south lanes are entrance lanes and are stop sign controlled. The posted speed for the east to west travel lanes is 89 kmph (55 mph). This intersection and roadway are well maintained and recently constructed. This roadway has good visibility in all directions with well marked lanes and stop lines.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1990 Ford E-250 cargo van, was driven by a 52 year-old male who was traveling south in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Buick Regal sedan, was driven by a 51 year-old male with two passengers who were traveling west in lane three. V1 failed to stop for stop sign and was contacted on the left side by the front of V2, which had not traffic controls at the intersection. After impact, V1 rotated counterclockwise coming to final rest in the intersection facing east. V2, after impact, continued in a northwesterly direction coming to final rest facing north. V2 was towed due to damage, V1 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 indicated that the engine of V1 was running hot & had been overheating. This may have been a factor for why the driver stopped just 3-4 seconds before proceeding into the intersection. He did state that he observed V2 to his left prior to impact. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed. Illegal maneuver for failure to obey the traffic control device, and inadequate surveillance were considered associative factors for V1.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.