This is a single vehicle crash ran off the left side of the roadway rollover that occurred on a two way, two lane, divided interstate asphalt roadway. There are two westbound and two southbound lanes that are separated by a depresses dirt median. The rollover occurred during dawn hours, There were no roadway deficiencies and no sight line restrictions noted at the scene. The were no apparent adverse weather conditions . The speed limit on the roadway is posted 121 kmph (75 MPH).

V-1, a 2005 Dodge Neon, driven by a 38 year-old male with two passengers was traveling westbound in the number one lane to the rear of a non contact vehicle (Operated by Witness 1) when the vehicle changed to the number two lane and began to pass the witness vehicle. The vehicle then departed the number two lane and gradually departed the left side of the roadway. The driver then apparently steered the vehicle to the right causing the vehicle to rotate counterclockwise when it began to re-enter the number two westbound lane. The vehicle then tripped and began to roll to it's left laterally in the number two lane for 6 quarter turns until it began to slide on it's top in a northwesterly direction until it came to rest in the right shoulder on it's top facing in a northeasterly direction. The right front passenger, a 22 year old female, and the middle rear passenger, a 2 year old male, were ejected during the roll and were later pronounced deceased as a result of injuries sustained during the crash. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

A witness at the scene stated that he was traveling westbound in the number one lane to the front of V-1. V-1 then changed to the left and traveled off the left side of the roadway. The vehicle traveled back into the number two lane when it began to roll. W-1 stated that the vehicle rolled in the number two lane until it traveled in the number two to the front of his vehicle. The driver stated that he was traveling about 121 kmph (75 mph) when V-1 passes him in the number two lane.

The pre event movement for V-1 was coded "passing or overtaking another vehicle". The critical pre crash event was coded "this vehicle traveling off the edge of the roadway on the left side". The critical reason was coded as a driver related performance error of: overcompensation. After departing the left side of the roadway the driver steered right to re-enter the roadway and then lost control and the vehicle subsequently rolled over. There was no interview with the driver of V1 obtained however the following information was included in the investigating officers report. He and his two passengers were traveling to an adjacent State for this trip, and had departed a city 290-kilometers (180 miles) from where the crash occurred. It is unknown if he had driven straight through or had stopped along the way. This would be approximate 2.4 hours of driving time, which would indicate that the trip had started at the latest around 0330 hours. It is unknown if the driver was fatigued. By departing the left side of the roadway as he was passing another vehicle it indicates poor directional control on this driver's part. The vehicle was a rental car and it is unknown how familiar the driver was with driving the vehicle or the roadway. After the collision, the investigating officer conducted field sobriety tests and stated he did not think alcohol or medication/drugs were factors for this driver. During the vehicle inspection three of the tires were flat and the left rear tire was under-inflated. It is unknown if under-inflated tires may have been a contributing factor due to their post crash deflated condition. The left front tire had a long serated tear in the top of the tread, but it did not appear to be blow-out damage. It was deemed by the researcher that the tear damage to the left front tire occurred during the rollover and was not prior to the first harmful event.