This crash occurred at an intersection of a 6 lane divided roadway and a 3- lane level, divided roadway controlled by a traffic signal with pedestrian crossings. At mid-morning the weather was 37 degrees, daylight, and the roadway surface is concrete dry and level. The posted speed limit for east/west roadway was 56 kmph (35 mph);and, for the north/south roadway 40 kmph (25 mph)

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 silver Pontiac Vibe compact utility vehicle was driven by a 72 year old male. V1 was heading east in the second lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Ford Expedition driven by a 28 year-old female with one passenger, was traveling south in lane one. As V1 traveled through the intersection the front struck the right side of V2. V1 rotated to the right to end up facing southeast in lane one. The driver of V1 was not injured and V1 was towed due to damage. As V2 entered the intersection it was struck on the right side by the front of V1. V2 came to final rest, still in lane one, on the south side of the intersection. V2 was driven from the scene and the passenger was transported to a local medical facility. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 had just completed a 1-hour aerobic workout at the YMCA for heart attack patients. The driver was slightly tired from this activity. As the driver approached the intersection, the drivers attention left the roadway to the shopping center to the right. The driver also lost his train of thought about driving and remembers that he needed to go the store. When the driver's attention returned to the roadway he was too close to the intersection to successfully stop in time.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was attributed to V1 as a driver related factor: external distraction. The driver stated he was looking at stores and thinking about doing some shopping. Inattention and inadequate surveillance were associative factors for this driver.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street ,across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.