A two-vehicle daytime collision occurred during the early afternoon hours on a Monday. The collision occurred in an uncontrolled 4-leg intersection. These are residential roadways with traffic in both directions. The pre-crash roadway for both vehicles is straight and level, paved with bituminous and parking is allowed on the roadway on both sides. The roadway has a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1987 Ford Bronco driven by a 23 year old male with one passenger, was traveling southbound on the roadway in lane 1. Vehicle two (V2), 1998 Ford Ranger driven by a 21 year old male, was traveling eastbound in lane 1. Both vehicles approached the intersection at roughly the same time, having a sight line restriction consisting of a house and a big bush on an elevated embankment at the northwest corner of the intersection. V2 entered the intersection first; V1 then impacted V2 on the left side. The impact caused V1's rear to rotate counter clockwise and V2 clockwise, causing them to side slap. Both vehicles then traveled towards the Southeast corner of the intersection. V1 came to rest just west of a utility pole and V2 came to rest just east of the same pole. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Driver of V1 stated he didn't see anyone approaching the intersection, so he proceeded through it. V2 also stated he did not see anyone coming, and that the bushes make it hard to see anything on that corner. Neither driver had any traffic controls, so rules of the road give the right of way to the vehicle on the right, V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event assigned to the driver of V1 as a driver related factor: Inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to V2.