The crash occurred at an intersection containing an east/west, 5-lane (3 west and 2 east) road with a raised curb divider and a north/south, 8-lane (4 north and 4 south) road with a raised curb divider. The east/west road on the westbound side had a straight/right turn lane (lane 1), a straight/left turn lane (lane 2) and a left turn only lane (lane 3). The north/south road on the northbound side had a right turn only lane (lane 1), 2 straight through lanes (lanes 2 and 3), and a left turn only lane (lane 4). The lanes in all 4 directions were controlled by traffic lights. The Northbound light was measured with a 6 second yellow before changing to red. There was a 1 second pause measured between red for northbound traffic and green for westbound traffic. Both roads were straight and level from precrash to point of impact. The crash occurred shortly after dusk on a weekend. The intersection was lit.

Vehicle #1 was a Chevrolet Silverado (type obtained from PAR) northbound in lane three. Vehicle #2, a 2000 Ford Focus, began traveling westbound through the intersection when the light turned green after being stopped at the red light for over a minute. Vehicle #1 ran the red light and struck Vehicle #2 first in the left side front with its front, spinning Vehicle #2 clockwise and then striking Vehicle #2 in the left side rear with its right side and sending it to final rest in the right northbound lane against the curb facing northeast. Vehicle #1 continued on through the intersection and fled the scene. The police have not yet located Vehicle #1 or its driver. Vehicle #2 was towed from the scene due to damage with both airbags deployed. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

Vehicle #1's Critical Precrash Event was this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a decision error, illegal maneuver. This was coded because Vehicle #1 ran the red light. Associated factors are unknown since the vehicle fled the scene.

Vehicle #2 was driven by a 34-year old female who was belted and not injured. The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #2 was other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor was that the driver of Vehicle #2 could not see if there was anyone running the light to her left due to the other traffic traveling westbound to her left in lanes 2 and 3 blocking her view of any potential hazards coming from Vehicle #1's direction. The driver of Vehicle #2 is not thought to have contributed to the crash.