This three-vehicle intersection crash occurred shortly before mid-night on a two way, five lane, dry, asphalt roadway. at a T-intersection dark but lighted. The roadway has two westbound and two eastbound lanes that are separated by a continuous left turn lane. The speed limit on the roadway is posted 52 kmph (35 mph) The cross street has one northbound and one southbound lane that is separated by a left turn lane at the intersection. The intersection is controlled by a traffic light on colors with a pedestrian crossing light. There were no environmental factors that contributed to this crash. There were no sight line restrictions and/or no obstructions noted.

Vehicle one (V1) a 1997 Kia Sephia sedan driven by a 39 year-old male was traveling westbound in the number two lane approaching the intersection, V1 applied the brakes which caused them to lock up. skidding longitudinally for approximately 27 meters (88 feet) before it struck the rear of vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Pontiac Grand Am sedan driven by a 39 year-old female that was stopped for the traffic light. The impact caused V1 to rotate counterclockwise and traveled and additional 32 meters (105 feet) in a southwesterly direction through the intersection before it struck the left side of vehicle three (V3) a 2002 Nissan Pathfinder SUV driven by a 39 year-old female which was also stopped for the traffic light. V1 came to rest when it struck V3 facing southeast. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage. V3 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1 and 89 kmph for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: Inadequate evasive action. Associative factors for V1 include: speed, alcohol consumption and fatigue .

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.