This two vehicle crash occurred just past noon involving two passenger cars on an urban four-lane undivided asphalt roadway. There are two eastbound and two westbound travel lanes with a worn double yellow center lane line painted between them. There are entry driveways for apartment complexes located north and south of the roadway. The speed limit for the roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph) in both directions of travel. The road surface was wet and slick from light rainfall. There are no traffic signs or signals at this part of the roadway. The roadway has a -4.1 % slope in the eastbound direction of travel and the reverse slope heading westbound.

V 1, a 1996 Honda Accord, was traveling east in the second lane. V 2, a 1991 Mazda MPV was traveling west in the second lane going straight. The driver of V2 had just left a shopping area after shopping. The driver of V1 attempted to make a left turn to enter an apartment complex. The front of V2 impacted the front of V1. V1 rotated counter clockwise, moved across the eastbound lanes and came to rest at the south curb, facing south. V2 came to rest within its original lane of traffic, facing west. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The drivers of both vehicles and occupants were transported to a local hospital for treatment. Both vehicles were towed from the scene.

The driver of V2 was a 42-year-old female who claimed to be well rested despite a rotating work schedule and a late start of sleep the prior night. She further claimed to be in good health. She was not in a hurry, no previous arguments not conversing, and was attentive to the driving task. She claimed not to have any medical conditions. There was no indication of alcohol or drug involvement. She slept 7.5 hours the night before the crash. She drives the route daily and is very familiar with the vehicle. When she recognized the other vehicle, the driver applied the brakes but was unable to bring the vehicle to a complete stop due to the slick road surface. The pre-crash movement coded going straight, event other vehicle in lane traveling in opposite direction.

The driver of V1 is a 20-year old female who possesses a valid driver's license. It is not known if there are any restrictions or endorsements. The identity of this driver was unknown to the researcher until 53 days after the crash when the police report was received. When contacted by the researcher the driver refused the interview due to pending litigation. There are no further facts or circumstances about this driver known. The police report does indicate that there were three additional female occupants occupying vehicle one at the time of the crash. Their ages were 15, 18 and 19 years old. It is unknown if they were conversing or otherwise distracting the driver from the driving task. There was no indication on the police report that consumption of drugs or alcohol was factors for this driver. Police cited a failure to yield the right-of-way as a contributing factor for this driver. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded going straight V1 went from the second lane across the eastbound second lane, heading for an apartment complex entry driveway. There were no indicators from the scene inspection or vehicle inspection of vehicle one that there were any vehicle or environmental related factors other than the wet roadway. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection, Reason for critical event misjudgment of gap or other's speed..