This crash occurred just past noon involving four passenger cars at a signalized intersection with protected left turn signals. The speed limit for the roadway is 64 kmph (40 mph). The north & south roadways are a divided with four lane going north and four lanes going south on the approach to the intersection. The road for eastbound traffic approaching the intersection was a divided roadway with three eastbound lanes & two westbound lanes. The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Oldsmobile Bravada, was traveling south in the first lane. The driver had left home a 3 minutes prior to the crash and was heading for a home improvement store located a mile from the crash site. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Dodge Caravan, was traveling north in the fourth lane, a left turn lane, and was attempting to make a left turn at the intersection. Vehicle three (V3), a 2000 Ford Taurus, was stopped in the first lane of the eastbound lanes. Vehicle four (V4) a 2003 Honda Accord was stopped in the first lane of the eastbound lanes V3 and V4 had red lights at the intersection. The front of V1 impacted the right side of V2. V2 rotated counter clockwise. V2's front impacted the left side of V3. V2 came to rest at the second point of impact. V1 rotated clockwise after the first event and came to rest at the traffic median of the eastbound traffic lanes. It slightly impacted the front of V4 with its left side. The front airbags of V1 and V2 deployed during the crash events. The drivers of V1 and V2 were not injured. The right front passenger and the driver of V3 were taken to local hospitals. All three vehicles were towed from the scene. V4 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 61-year old male who claimed to be well rested and in good health. He possesses a valid license with no restrictions or endorsements. He was not in a hurry, no previous arguments not conversing, and was attentive to the driving task. He takes medication to control high blood pressure. There was no indication of alcohol or drug involvement. He slept 8 hours the night before the crash. He got up early to play a round of golf that day. He drives the route about 4 times a week and despite driving his wife's vehicle, he is very familiar and comfortable with the vehicle. He had just left his home and was on his way to a nearby home improvement store. He said he did not see from what exact direction V2 was coming. He was not sure if V2 came from the oncoming traffic lanes and made a left turn, or if V2 came from the exit of the shopping area and attempted to pass through the intersection. He was not sure if he applied his brakes or not. The posted speed limit at this intersection is 64 kmph 40 mph. He stated he was going about 72 kmph 45 mph.

The critical pre crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction, over left lane line. No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V2 is a 54-year old male who claimed to be well rested and in good health. He possesses a valid license with no restrictions or endorsements. He was not in a hurry, no previous arguments not conversing, and was attentive to the driving task. There was no indication of alcohol or drug involvement. He slept 8 hours the night before the crash. He said he was turning left at the intersection after he stopped for 3-4 seconds. He was sure he had a protective green left turn arrow. At the time of the crash, the light at V2's lane of travel turns green for both directions. After the lights of the southbound lanes turned red, the northbound left turn lane will receive a green left turn arrow. Prior to that, the left turn vehicle has to yield the right of way.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V2 as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or others speed.

The driver of V3 was a 22-year old female. She had driven 1.6 kilometers (1 mile) to the crash site. She did not possess a valid driver's license and had borrowed her sisters. The driver of V4 was a 33-year old female. Both vehicles were stopped in traffic, waiting for the lights to turn red. V3 did not have an advisory sign prohibiting a right turn on red. Both vehicles played only passive roles in this crash and were not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason was not assigned to either of these vehicles.