This was a single vehicle, run-off road impact. The crash occurred on a dirt, forest service road. The roadway runs east to west and has mountainous curves and grades. The grade prior to the crash area is -6 percent with a left hand curve. This curve has a positive super elevation of +7 percent for the eastbound lane. The posted speed limit is 48 kmph (30 mph). The crash occurred during the morning daylight hours. and the driver reported that the sun was shining at an angle that caused glare on certain portions of the roadway, making it difficult to consistently see the road edge.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1978 Ford Fairlane station wagon, was eastbound negotiating the curve. As V1 reached the bottom of the grade, the sun glare and shadows blocked the view of the roadway curving left. The driver continued straight and when the glare lifted, he realized the road was curving. The driver braked hard and steered left, but the vehicle began to slide on the dirt road. V1 slid off the right road edge. Once over the edge, V1 struck a roadside delineator with the front bumper then rode down the road edge embankment hitting a small tree and then a drainage embankment. V1 came to rest heading east. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage to the steering and suspension. Two female occupants in this vehicle were slightly injured. One of the occupants was transported to a local hospital for treatment for a breathing problem. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1 is 25 years old. He reported that he was in good health and had slept well the night before the crash. He drives this road daily, on his way to work. He was not conversing at the time of the crash. He does not wear glasses and does not take any medications.

The critical pre-crash event was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for this vehicle was coded as a driver related factor: too fast for curve/turn. The sun glare was considered an associative factor.