A two-vehicle crash occurred on a four lane four-way intersection. This crash occurred in the evening hours during rush hour. The intersection is a tri-light controlled four-way intersection with left turn only lanes on all four sides. The entire intersection is on a curve. The east side of the intersection has a negative 6% grade. The west side is level. The roadway is bituminous asphalt and was dry at the time of the crash. The speed limit for this roadway is 89 kmph (55 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Chevrolet Cavalier two door occupied by the 17 year old female driver only, was traveling westbound on a two-lane divided roadway approaching an intersection. As V1 approached the intersection there is a left turn only and a right turn only lane making this roadway a four-lane roadway at the intersection. V1 stopped in the left turn only lane waiting to turn southbound at the intersection. There were many vehicles in the intersection as this was rush hour traffic. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Ford Escort four door occupied by the 58 year old female driver only, was traveling eastbound on a four lane roadway approaching the same intersection. As V2 approached the intersection it was intending to travel straight through. As V1 initiated the left turn, the front of V2 struck the front of V1. V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to a final rest in the intersection. V2 came to rest on the south shoulder east of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's action. This driver assumed that V2 was going to yield the right of way. This driver stated to the investigating officer that V2 was slowing down and assumed it was going to yield. She also stated that she attempted the turn on a yellow light. Vehicles waiting to turn north at the intersection also obstructed this driver's view.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.