This two-vehicle afternoon intersection type crash occurred in a 4-way, urban, traffic signal controlled intersection. The eastbound roadway is one-way, consists of 3 through lanes, is straight, level and of bituminous construction. The southbound roadway is one-way, consists of 3 through lanes is straight, has a +5% slope and is of bituminous construction. At the time of the crash it was clear, and there were no adverse weather conditions, road defects or sight restrictions. The posted speed limit for both roadways is 48 kmph (30 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1993 Chevrolet Lumina van with one occupant, was traveling east in lane three intending to go straight. The V1 driver, a 17-year-old female, stated that she was distracted by poor vehicle performance and related noises. As she approached the intersection, the V1 driver stated that when she noticed the traffic light turn yellow, tried to accelerate to clear the intersection. V1 did not seem to respond, she then noticed the light turn red and attempted to stop. She believes that her vehicle's brakes locked up, then was contacted on the left side by the front of vehicle two (V2). The impact caused both V1 and V2 to enter counterclockwise rotations and both vehicles came to final rest to the west of the intersection. A witness following V1 stated the driver ran two red lights prior to this incident. According to witness one, they did not see any brake lights from V1 pre-crash. V2, a 1991 Mazda MPV van with three occupants, was traveling south in lane two intending to go straight. According to the V2 driver, a 40-year-old male, he had been stopped at a red traffic light, then proceeded forward into the intersection when the light turned green and the front of V2 struck the left side of V1. According to witness two, stopped behind V2, V2 did not immediately proceed forward when the traffic signal turned green. After a few seconds V2 proceeded forward and contacted V1. Witness two did not notice any V2 avoidance actions. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason was coded as a driver related factor: aggressive driving behavior. This driver ran several red lights before this crash occurred. He also stated that when he approached this intersection and saw the yellow light and he rapidly accelerated to go through the intersection. Witnesses verified that this driver did not stop or slow down prior to entering the intersection. The driver had concerns about the brakes on his vehicle. He was also thinking about noises that V1 was making and it's poor performance

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.