The crash occurred on a north/south four-lane rural highway. It curved to the east (right) as it traveled northward with a radius of curvature of 536meters and a negative 5.5% grade. The highway had right shoulders with rumble strips; on the left there was 1.3meters between the left lane line and the median with no rumble strips present. Initially there was a guardrail dividing the north and south lanes but as the highway traveled north the median widened and the guardrail ended with only grass separating the directions of travel. The grass median was 5 meters wide at the roadway departure point, widening to 39meters at the vehicles final rest. There was also a paved median crossover that began 37meters north of the end of the guardrail that provided access to a non-involved two lane road that intersected on the east side of the highway. North of the crossover there was a drainage ditch running through the center of the median. The ditch dropped off 140cm from the north edge of the crossover pavement. The median sloped towards the center drainage ditch on both sides (east and west) gradually decreasing in grade from 27% to 15% as it continued northward. The posted speed limit on the highway was 89kph (55mph). Conditions were dark and dry on a weekday morning just before dawn.

Vehicle #1 was a 1996 Saturn SL1 traveling north on the highway. It edged off the left side of the roadway 7m north of the end of the guardrail just as the road began to curve right (east). The vehicle's initial impact was a left sideswipe to a 'do not enter' sign that was in the median. The Saturn continued north and went across the paved crossover going airborne as the pavement dropped off into the median (140cm). It landed 7m from the edge of the pavement causing front undercarriage damage and deploying the frontal airbags. Vehicle #1 finally came to rest facing north near the center of the median 155m north of roadway departure and was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

Vehicle #1 was driven by a 33-year old male that was not belted. He was not injured in the crash. He reported that he fell asleep and ran off the road. The driver told police that medication had made him drowsy but denied drug use to the researcher. EDR data was extracted from the vehicle and indicated a maximum-recorded velocity change of 15.5kph (9.65mph) for the airbag deployment event. Unfortunately, precrash data was not available on this model.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was falling asleep. The only associated factors were two physical factors. The driver was deaf and had participated in strenuous recreational activities (basketball and weight lifting) which he normally takes part in several times a week. He was on his way to his job where he works 40 hours per week (five 8-hour days) and had worked three days since his last day off. He claimed to have gotten 7.75 hours sleep the preceding night, going to bed around his normal time and getting about the same amount of sleep he is accustomed to. Drug use was coded as unknown since he denied drug use to researcher but told police that's what had made him drowsy.