This two-vehicle crash occurred during early morning hours in an intersection. The undivided east/west roadway is comprised of two lanes in each direction and is not traffic controlled. The undivided north/south roadway is a two way, two lane undivided roadway with parallel parking allowed on both sides. Stop signs control traffic entering the intersection. Near the northwest corner of the intersection was a housing construction site, surrounded by a chain link fence. The speed limit was 48 kmph (30 mph) for the east/west road and 40 kmph (25 mph) for the north/south road.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Audi A4 carrying one occupant, was traveling northbound in the first lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Flxible transit bus carrying four occupants, was traveling westbound in the first lane. The driver of V1 came to a stop and noticed a vehicle approaching from the west. He looked right and saw the bus approaching from the east. The driver was under the impression that the intersection was a 4-way stop and proceeded straight ahead. The bus driver slammed on the brakes and attempted to swerve, but the bus skidded and the front of the bus contacted the right side of V1. This impact caused V1 to rotate counter-clockwise about two hundred seventy degrees as it was pushed west towards the northwest corner. V1 came to rest at the corner facing eastbound. The bus continued toward the same corner and the front of the bus contacted the front of V1, pushing V1 backward into the chain link fence. The bus then contacted a light pole with its front end. V1 came to rest facing eastbound while the bus came to rest facing westbound against the pole. Both vehicles were towed due to damage and both drivers received non-incapacitating injuries and were transported to a medical facility. The three remaining occupants on the bus were also transported with non-incapacitating injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 38 year-old male that was on his way to work. He was familiar with the roadway but had only owned the vehicle for a month, though he claimed he was comfortable with it. He stated that he was supposed to be at work 10 minutes before the crash occurred, but didn't leave his home until that time. This indicates he was late for work and in a hurry. Though reportedly familiar with the roadway, the driver was under the impression that vehicles on the east/west street also had stop signs.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions. The driver of V1 assumed that the bus would stop before the intersection.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 (the bus) was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.