The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a six-lane rural portion of interstate highway with a concrete traffic barrier dividing it into three lanes each way. The left shoulder was 3 meters wide and the right shoulder was 4.4 meters wide and bordered by grass. Grade measurement 200 meters back from the first harmful event was -6.2% and grade measurement at final rest was +3.4%. The roadway where the crash occurred was straight as it approached an interchange. The crash occurred in mid-afternoon on a weekend under daylight, cloudy and dry conditions. The posted speed limit was 112kmph (70mph).

Vehicle #1 was a 1996 Chevrolet S-10 pickup truck traveling in the far left lane at or slightly above the speed limit. Vehicle #2 was a 2001 Mercury Mountaineer traveling in the far right lane at about the speed limit. Both vehicles were in the eastbound lanes and traveling east. The driver of Vehicle #2 swerved to the left crossing the center lane in an apparent avoidance maneuver striking the right front of Vehicle#1 with the left rear of Vehicle#2. Vehicle #1 steered left braking with lockup onto the left shoulder and struck the dividing wall with its left front. Vehicle #2 then went into a yaw to its left, first steering right, which brought it into the far right lane and then steering left. This began a yaw to the right in which the vehicle crossed traffic lanes again onto the left shoulder and struck the divider wall with the left half of its front plane. Both vehicles came to rest on the left shoulder facing east. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle #2 was driven by a 26-year old female who was pregnant in her first trimester and refused treatment at the scene. She stated that the vehicle in front of her in the right lane appeared to just stop in front of her causing her to swerve hard left and hit Vehicle #1. She was not sure of her speed at the time of either impact. Vehicle #2 was towed due to damage. Both front airbags did deploy, the driver was belted and the passenger (a 2 year old female) was restrained in a child seat and sustained no injuries.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #2 was that this vehicle crossed its lane line on the left side and the Critical Reason for the Critical Event was overcompensation. This was chosen because both drivers stated that traffic was slowing suddenly and the driver of Vehicle #2 also stated that she steered left initially to avoid colliding with another vehicle. She was taking a pre-natal medication. A highway-related associated factor coded to this vehicle was that traffic ahead of the crash was slowed unexpectedly for an unknown reason.

Vehicle# 1 was driven by a 34-year old male. He stated that as he was traveling in the left lane and traffic ahead began to slow. He saw Vehicle #2 swerve left across traffic and as he began to brake and steer left he was struck. He then continued until he hit the wall. He stated that he had slowed to about 55mph at the time of the first impact. This vehicle was driven from the scene and the belted driver was uninjured.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was other vehicle encroaching from adjacent lane, same direction over right lane line. No Critical Reason was coded to this driver. He was wearing his prescription glasses that corrected a hyperopic (far-sighted) condition. A highway-related associated factor was that traffic slowed unexpectedly for an unknown reason.