This crash occurred on an interstate on a weekday evening. The weather was over cast. This crash happened on the southbound side of the interstate just after the merging area of the interstate the speed was posted at 105kmph (65mph) the slope of the roadway was level concrete and dry. As this vehicle tried to merge into lane #1 the drive noted another vehicle merging into its lane. Then over compensating swerved crossing lane #3 and the median lane making contact to the divider wall braking off the left rear wheel assembly. The vehicle then slid back across the interstate to contact the guardrail on the right shoulder of the roadway coming to final rest at the guardrail.

The Vehicle in this crash was a 1996 Chevrolet Lumina driven by a 50 year-old female who stated that she is in good health and only wears glasses for reading. She also stated she is taking a thyroid medication. She had stated that she was on her way home from the movies and was merging onto the southbound interstate. She had stated that back where the East and West interstate merged that a non-contact vehicle was not letting her merge and as they came to merge onto the interstate south that she took lane 2 and then stated that she wanted to merge back into lane 1. Looking over her right shoulder saw that the non-contact vehicle was merging into her lane and that was when she pulled her steering wheel to the left so not to make contact to his vehicle. She then swerved to the left across the interstate and hit the center wall. The vehicle skidded along the wall for a few feet and then it spun around back across the interstate and came to final rest along the guardrail. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The Critical Precrash Event was coded: this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was: performance error overcompensation.

An associating factor was that the witness of the non-contact vehicle stated that he noted the driver and the front of the interior of the vehicle had pop (soda) spilled all over it. He thinks the driver was holding or taking a drink of the pop and didn't see that he was braking because of a slower moving vehicle, which caused her to veer to the left.