The crash occurred on a clear, dry morning in the daylight, on a two-way, three-lane, straight, level, bituminous roadway. V1 was traveling northbound at approximately 64kmh (40mph) with a posted speed of 72kmh (45mph).

The 47 year-old female driver of V1, a 2001 Ford Explorer 4 door, fell asleep as she attempted to turn right into a fast food restaurant driveway. The driver stated that she had been feeling sleepy throughout her 25-30 minute drive from home to work. The driver reported that she had been shaking her head and rolling down the window in an attempt to remain awake. Feeling increasingly sleepy, she decided to pull off of the road and turned approximately 30 meters short of the intended driveway. The driver stated that she did not remember anything past beginning her turn. V1 exited the roadway on the right, went up the cement curb, across the grass and the front of V1 struck a <8cm diameter metal post. V1 front then struck the front and rode up onto the right side of a legally parked unoccupied vehicle in a restaurant parking lot. V1 then rolled into a second legally parked unoccupied vehicle, where it came to final rest facing east with its' right side wheels on top of the first vehicle. The vehicle was towed from the scene due to damage, and the fully restrained driver reported no injuries sustained in the crash and did not seek medical treatment. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was 'this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side.' The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as 'driver related error-critical non-performance error-the driver was asleep.'

A Contributing Factor of 'driver fatigue' was coded as the driver stated that she had started a new prescribed medication for treatment of Lupus four weeks ago and that it made her tired. She also has Epilepsy, which requires her to get 8-10 hours of sleep per night, and she did sleep 8 hours the night prior to the crash, but reported that she has felt fatigued upon awakening every day since taking the new medication. The driver stated that she was certain that she fell asleep and did not have a seizure, as she has only had three seizures in 44 years, and that they were triggered by strobe lights. She was scheduled to have her prescribed medications evaluated in three weeks. The medication lists dizziness as a possible side effect.

The driver's physical factors and their related prescribed medications were coded as Contributing Factors. The driver has a seizure disorder medication and is also being treated for depression with another prescribed medication, both that have possible side effects of drowsiness, tiredness, and dizziness and carry warnings about driving. The driver also has a severe osteoarthritis condition of her lumbar spine, but had not taken any additional medication for that condition the day of the crash.

The driver was familiar both with her vehicle and with the roadway and there were no mechanical defects found during the vehicle inspection. The driver stated that she had no emotional or work related stress or concerns on her mind prior to the crash, but reported that she is going through a divorce and that she is seeing a psychiatrist and a therapist. The driver stated that she had been “falling asleep all the way to work, I kept rolling the window down, felt like falling asleep” and “this condition has happened before”.

The properly licensed driver currently has no restrictions on her driver's license but a re-examination will be ordered as a result of this crash. There were no citations issued and alcohol or illegal drugs were not considered and the police did not order tests.