The crash occurred mid-afternoon involving two vehicle's at a signalized intersection. The speed limit for the roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). The road is 4-lane divided concrete roadway in both directions of travel. The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash it was daylight .

Vehicle one (V1), a 1991 Pontiac Sun fire convertible, was traveling east in the fourth left turn lane, making a left turn at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Ford Explorer Sport Trac was traveling west in the second lane approaching the intersection. The front of V2 impacted the right side of V1. At impact V2 rotated clockwise and came to rest at the close to the southbound traffic lanes, facing northeast. V1 rotated counter clockwise and came to rest within the intersection, facing west. Both vehicles side slapped each other during rotation. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. The drivers of both vehicles refused to be treated by the ambulance. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

V1 was operated by a 17 year-old female who was talking on her phone prior tot the crash. She was commuting to work from her home, and was well rested and healthy. She drives the route on a daily basis and was comfortable/familiar with the vehicle. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or others speed. An associative factor was inattention due to having a phone conversation.

V2 was operated by a 30 year-old male. The researcher checked if the driver experienced a limited vision of the traffic light due to possible sun glare. This was done 60 minutes after the crash occurred, and sun glare was not considered a factor. Fatigue was coded as a factor for this driver because they had only 3.5 hours of sleep in the previous 24 hours and the driver had been awake for about 11 hours at the time of the collision. They were commuting to work from home at this time. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction, over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.