The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a four lane highway (two lanes in each direction) divided by a grassy median, with a left turn lane that began approximately 40 meters east of an intersecting two lane road on the north side of the highway. The intersecting road was a minor two way, two-lane road with a stop sign for southbound traffic at the intersection with the highway. The side road had a posted speed limit of 48kph/30mph and was straight and level. The highway had a posted speed of 80kph/50mph and was straight with a westbound negative grade of -5.2%.

Vehicle #1 was a 1996 Dodge 1500 cargo van (empty) traveling south on the two-lane road attempting to cross the highways westbound lanes to turn left and travel east on the highway. As Vehicle #1 was crossing it was impacted in the left side by the front of Vehicle #2, a 1998 Chevrolet Malibu that was traveling westbound on the highway in the left travel lane. Vehicle #1 spun about 60 degrees counterclockwise and came to rest facing east. Vehicle #2 traveled another forty meters west and came to rest partially on the shoulder and partially in the grass bordering the shoulder facing northwest. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle #1 was driven by a twenty-four year old belted male who was uninjured in the crash. No air bags were deployed in this vehicle. The driver stated that he was waiting to cross the highway and turn left on the other side. He saw a big brown van that was slowing with its right turn signal on in the right westbound lane of the highway. It looked like it was going to turn onto the road that the driver of Vehicle #1 was trying to turn out of. He stated that it looked like it was clear because everyone else was way up the hill. He pulled out when he was sure that the van was turning right and was struck by Vehicle #2.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for Vehicle #1 was this vehicle traveling: turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was a decision error, other, turned with obstructed view. Some associated contributing factors coded to this vehicle are: The impending problem was masked by traffic flow (Van). In addition the driver is very uncomfortable driving this vehicle and stated he does not like driving this van (company van); the last time that he drove it (six months previous to this crash) he had another crash in this vehicle. The non-contact van is considered to be a sightline restriction for Vehicle #1 looking in the direction of Vehicle #2.

Vehicle #2 was driven by a seventy-five year old unbelted male with deployed airbag that was transported to a local trauma center with minor injuries. The driver said he was only going about thirty-five miles per hour because he doesn't like to go fast. He was traveling down the hill in the left land on his way back from the bank when a white van pulled out in front of me. One minute the road was clear and the next it wasn't. I only had time to touch my brakes. Vehicle #1 pulled out in front of the big brown van and then he was in front of me. The EDR data indicated a longitudinal Delta V of -23.91mph at 280 milliseconds from algorithm enable.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for Vehicle #2 was other vehicle encroachment: from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event is not coded to this vehicle. A contributing associated factor for this vehicle was his view of the other vehicle (V1) was obstructed by the non-contact van per interview.