The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a six-lane high occupancy and high volume highway. The roadway was divided by a concrete median barrier and there were six lanes and two emergency paved shoulders in each direction. It was mid-day and the skies were clear on a weekday. The roadway was straight and level with a posted speed limit of 105 kmph (65 mph).

Vehicle #1 was an unknown white van thought to be traveling in either lane 1 or lane 2. Vehicle #2 was a 2003 BMW 3-series that had just entered the roadway at an entrance ramp and had merged into Lane #1. Vehicle #3 was a 1995 Toyota Corolla that was traveling in the second lane of travel. For an unknown reason, Vehicle #1 impacted the right rear of Vehicle #3. This impact caused Vehicle #3 to skid to the right in a clockwise rotation. Vehicle #3 exited his lane and entered Lane #1, and the right front side of Vehicle #2 impacted the left front side of Vehicle #1. This impact redirected Vehicle #3 to the left, and it began to rotate in a counterclockwise direction across all lanes of travel before the front of the Toyota impacted the concrete median barrier. The white van continued on without stopping. Neither the driver of Vehicle #2 or Vehicle #3 was injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for Vehicle #1 was not known. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was also unknown.

A 20-year old female drove the 2003 BMW. The car was not towed due to damages. No Critical Pre-crash Event and no Critical Reason were coded to the driver of Vehicle #2 because she was not involved in the first harmful event. No associated factors were coded to her and she was not thought to have contributed to the crash.

An 18-year old male drove the 1995 Toyota Corolla. This vehicle was towed due to damages. The Critical Pre-crash Event for the driver of Vehicle #3 was when another vehicle was in his lane, traveling in the same direction at a higher speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to the driver of Vehicle #3. An associated factor coded to this driver was driver inexperience.