This two-vehicle daytime collision occurred just after noon during daylight hours at a 4-way, traffic signal controlled intersection. The east/west roadway consists of two through lanes in each direction divided by a left turn lane and is straight, level, bituminous, and was dry at the time of the crash. The roadway has a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). At the time of the crash it was clear, and there were no adverse weather conditions, sight restrictions or road defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a light blue 1988 Dodge Ram Pickup, driven by a 17 year-old male was traveling westbound on the roadway in lane three, approaching the intersection intending to turn left. Vehicle two (V2), a white 2000 Dodge Dakota Pickup driven by a 55 year-old male was traveling eastbound in lane one approaching the intersection intending to go straight. As V1 and V2 entered the intersection, V1 turned left and the two vehicles collided front to front. After impact with V2, V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest in the number one eastbound lane facing generally east. After impact with V1, V2 departed on a southeast trajectory, departed the southeast corner of the intersection, impacted a pole located off the southeast corner of the intersection, and came to rest at that point of impact facing generally east. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was traveling from to his friend's house for lunch, was on his lunch break from school. He reported to be in good health, with no pre-existing conditions. He has no sight or hearing factors, and was not fatigued. He was familiar with the roadway, as he drives it daily. The driver was listening to the radio while driving. Due to the driver's lack of experience, he misjudged the velocity & gap distance of V2 and thought he could make his turn before V2 reached his vehicle. This was also a failure to yield the right of way byt this driver. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was attributed to V1 as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction, over the left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.