This single-driver collision occurred on a four-lane east/west roadway. The roadway is dry, level, asphalt and divided by a raised grass median. The roadway is designated as a 56 kmph (35 mph) zone and is free of defects. There were no adverse weather conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one, a 1987 Toyota Camry was traveling eastbound in the second lane of the two-lane, divided roadway. Vehicle two, a 1991 Honda Civic was legally parked against the north curb, facing westbound on the opposite side of the median. The tread of vehicle one's left rear tire separated from the tire, causing the driver to lose control of the vehicle. The driver veered left, impacting the raised curb with the front left wheel. Vehicle one continued across the grass median in a northeasterly direction, where the front of vehicle one impacted a small tree, knocking it down. Vehicle one continued moving forward and an overhanging tree impacted vehicle one in the windshield and left A-pillar area. Vehicle one entered and traversed both westbound lanes and departed the roadway again to the north, where the front of vehicle one impacted the left side of vehicle two. Vehicle two moved backwards off the road and impacted a cinder-block wall with its back plane. Vehicle one came to rest near the north road edge, partially off the roadway. Vehicle one was towed due to damage. Vehicle two was left in the parking spot. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a fifty-one-year-old female driver indicated that the vehicle veered out of control after the tread separation. The driver of vehicle one has sustained injuries from a previous traffic collision that causes her a "tingling" sensation when she lacks exercise. She says this doesn't effect her driving but on long trips she has to pull over and stretch. The driver suffers from depression and stopped taking her medication three weeks prior to the crash. The driver has a hyperopic condition and was wearing her prescription glasses at the time. The driver was on her way to physical therapy when the crash occurred. The driver has only been driving for one year, having completed driving school the previous year. The driver reported that she applied the brakes, but was unable to bring the vehicle to a stop. She then attempted to stop the car by disengaging the ignition but the keys were not in the ignition. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded "this vehicle control loss due to: blow out/flat tire: Left rear tread separation". The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded "vehicle related factor: tire/wheels deficiency".