The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a rural U.S. Highway that ran east/west and was divided by a grassy median with crossovers for access to either side. Where the crash occurred it was intersected on the north and south side by a rural arterial road. On the Highway there were two travel lanes in each direction and on the eastbound side at the intersection with the arterial there was a third lane for left turns only. The intersection was controlled by stop signs for the arterial. There were no controls for the highway. The posted speed limit for the highway was 89kph(55mph). The highway was straight and level with daylight and dry conditions.

Vehicle 1, a 2003 Saturn SL2, was traveling eastbound in the right lane on the U.S. Highway. Vehicle 2 was a small John Deere tractor-style riding lawnmower. As V1 approached the intersection it was being passed on the left by a non-contact SUV. When the SUV passed Vehicle 1 the riding lawnmower came out of the crossover in an attempt to cross the eastbound lanes and head south on the arterial. V2 made it across to the right eastbound lane when it was struck on the right side by Vehicle 1. Vehicle 1 came to rest about 80 meters east of impact facing east, straddling the two eastbound lanes. Vehicle 1 was towed due to damage. V2 came to rest about 50 meters east of Point of Impact on the right shoulder and in the grass to the right (south) of the shoulder. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle 1 was driven by a 65-year old belted male whose airbags deployed. He was uninjured in the crash. EDR data indicated V1 was traveling at a steady speed of 92kph (57mph) and the brake switch was still off 1 second prior to the deployment event.

The critical pre-crash event for Vehicle 1 was Other Vehicle Encroachment, from crossing street across path. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle. The driver takes several medications for various conditions including diabetes.

Vehicle 2 was an 80-year old male driving a riding lawnmower to a repair shop. The critical pre-crash event for this vehicle was This Vehicle Traveling, Crossing over (passing through intersection). The critical reason for the critical event was coded as an Unknown Recognition Error. The driver of V2 was killed in the crash.