This crash occurred on a 4-lane, two-way undivided roadway. The crash occurred on a weekday evening. The skies were clear the roadway was dry. The posted speed was 56 kmph (35 mph). Witnesses stated that the vehicle in the crash was traveling at a high rate of speed and was all over all the four lanes. The vehicle then departed the roadway on the right side, traveling on the grass before impacting a traffic light pole, breaking it off. The vehicle then traveled through the intersection, jumping the curb on the other side and striking a fire hydrant with the left side of the vehicle. It then contacted a bush and a sign in front of the building were it came to final rest. The driver was transported to the local trauma unit for his injuries. The vehicle was towed from the scene due to extensive damage.

The vehicle was a 1993 Ford F150 pick-up driven by a 59-year old male who stated that his doctor had put him on a strong antidepressant for both depression and sleep problems. He stated he was on his way to his son's home and while driving, the medication put him in a very relaxed state and after that he cannot remember anything. The driver reported that he has no other health problems and wears glasses only for reading. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The Critical Precrash Event was coded "This vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side." The Critical Reason for the Critical event was coded as aggressive driving. Associated factors include the use of both illegal drugs (opiates, cocaine) and prescription medications - as per medical records, he was taking both an antidepressant and a muscle relaxant. Medical records also indicated that this driver suffered from manic depression. The driver of V1 reported that he was told earlier in the day that his mother had been taken to the hospital in poor health. Excess speed was also thought to be an associated factor.

Witnesses stated that the driver was traveling at a high rate of speed and was traveling all over all four lanes of travel, running vehicles off the road and almost making contact to the vehicle of one of the witnesses. After making contact to the traffic light pole and breaking it off, the light pole made contact to the second vehicle listed on the police report. V#1 did not contact this vehicle.

This researcher had a long conversation with the driver trying to pick up little things about the crash. The driver stated that he does not remember anything about his mother but did know he was going to his son's home for some family problem. He also stated he was going to rehab for his drug problem. This driver left the hospital against the hospital's advice as stated in medical reports.