A two-vehicle collision occurred early evening daylight hours on a weekday. The roadway was dry and free of defects. The collision occurred in a signalized intersection. There was traffic congestion at the time.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Scion Xa, was traveling northbound in the fourth lane of a four-lane, two-way, divided, concrete roadway without a positive barrier. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Toyota Camry, was traveling eastbound in the second lane of a four-lane, one-way, concrete roadway. The posted speed limit for V1 was 56 kmph (35 mph) and for V2 it was 72 kmph (45 mph). Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 did not stop for the red traffic signal and entered the intersection. As V1 entered the intersection, the front of V1 struck the right front of V2. V1 rotated clockwise and coasted to rest into a nearby parking lot southeast of the point of impact. V2 rotated counter clockwise and came to rest in the intersection facing northeast. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the collision.

The 50-year-old male driver of V1 was well rested and familiar with area. He was conversing with a passenger and entered the intersection against the red light. He steered to the right in an attempt to avoid the collision. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see). The driver, due to the on-going conversation, failed to look to either side ahead

The 26-year-old male driver of V2 was well rested and familiar with the area. The driver stated that he was stopped at the red light and entered the intersection when it turned green. He took no evasive action. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.