This two-vehicle crash occurred in the morning on a dark, two-lane, undivided roadway in a rural region. The roadway runs east west and is straight at the location of the crash. There were no adverse weather conditions and the posted speed limit is 72 kmph (45 mph).

Vehicle 1, a 1996 Jeep Grand Cherokee Laredo 4x4, was traveling east and Vehicle 2, a 2001 Ford F-150 4x2, was traveling west. As the two vehicles grew closer, Vehicle 1 began to drift into the opposing travel lane. Vehicle 2's driver recognized Vehicle 1's unusual path so he took his foot off the accelerator and steered to the right side of his lane; however, Vehicle 1 continued to travel into Vehicle 2's direction and struck it on the left side. After colliding with Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1 continued east while departing the right side of the road. Vehicle 1 traveled on the grassy roadside for approximately 50 meters before it re-entered the roadway, departed the left side of the road, and struck two small trees. Vehicle 2 drove to a complete stop on the right side (north) side of the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene and its driver was transported to a local trauma center for minor injuries. Vehicle 2 was also towed from the scene but its driver was not injured in the crash.

The driver of Vehicle 1 was a 17-year-old male that has a troubled history and revoked driver license. His father arrived at the scene and provided some background information on his son. According to the driver's father, the driver has a known drug problem, is always involved in trouble and was expelled from high school last year for being a nuisance. The driver is attending classes at a charter school and works part- time at his father's construction company.

His father reports that at some point last night, his son left their home with his mother's Jeep and went out for the night. Several attempts were made to reach their son all night, but they did not hear from him until early morning. The driver told his father that his friend "broke a leg" and he needed a ride to the hospital. The father did not believe the story and an hour after that conversation, the father received another call from his son notifying him of the crash. The investigating trooper said the driver was acting violently with EMS but was not sure if he was on drugs or not.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle 1 was coded: this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the left side of travel lane. The Critical Reason for Critical Precrash Event was coded unknown reason. I left several messages for the driver that went unreturned before the phone number was finally disconnected.

The driver of V2 is a 27-year-old male that was driving to work this morning on the same road he travels everyday. The driver stated he was driving west and notice a Jeep traveling in the opposite direction, cross the double yellow lines. The two vehicles were about 150 feet apart at this time. He took his foot off the accelerator and moved to the right side of his lane. The Jeep continued to "hug" the double yellow lines until the two vehicles intersected. As they meet, the Jeep sideswiped the left side of his truck. He was able to control his truck and pull it off to the right side of the roadway. He was not injured. He stated it was dark at the time of the crash and both vehicles had their headlights on.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle 2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction-over left lane line. The Critical Reason for Critical Precrash Event was not coded for this vehicle.