This two-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of a 4-way intersection, controlled by traffic signals in all directions. The east/west roadway consisted of 4 lanes. The north/south roadway had only 2 lanes. The posted speed limit was 56kph (35mph). There were no atmospheric conditions at the time of the incident and the roadway was dry. The gradient for both vehicles involved was determined to be level.

Vehicle one (V1) was traveling west attempting to make a left at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2) was heading east, intending to continue straight through the intersection. Both vehicles had a green light at the intersection, however V1 did not have a green arrow, as none was available. Therefore V1 was required to yield to oncoming traffic. V1 was traveling at approximately 18-32kph (11-20mph) when the front of the vehicle struck the left front of the opposing vehicle (V2). V2 was traveling at the speed of 56kph (35mph) and spun clockwise, and then continued forward while V1 hit V2 again in the left side before coming to final rest on the property of the north/east corner of the intersection. The impact also caused V1 to spin counter-clockwise and continued forward. V1 was driven to a safer place after impact off to the side of the road. Only V2 had to be removed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 did not suffer any injuries as a result of the impact. The interview with driver of V1 on scene revealed that he did not see the oncoming vehicle as he was making the left turn. He knew that he had a green light and thought the "coast was clear." Since the driver did not see the other vehicle until the very last second, no avoidance actions were taken. The driver did not make a note of any internal or external distractions. Further, no inattentive factors for vehicle one were attributed to this crash. The driver did mention that he had a minor heart condition, but that it did not hinder his ability to operate the vehicle. He was not currently taking any medication, prescription or otherwise, at the time of the crash. The fatigue level of the driver could have been described as normal.

The Critical Precrash Event for this vehicle was coded as turning left at intersection. The reason for the Critical Precrash Event was coded as inadequate surveillance (looked but did not see).

V2 was traveling at approximately 56kph (35mph) through the intersection before it was struck by V1. After realizing a crash was about to occur, the driver of V2 hit the brakes and steered to the right in an attempt to avoid the collision. Unfortunately, this action was not sufficient enough to prevent this crash from taking place.

All three occupants of V2 were transported to the hospital for possible injuries. The interview was obtained from the front seat passenger, who claimed that the driver of V2 was in good physical health. The driver also was not taking any type of medication on the day of, or days leading up to the crash. V2 was making a trip of quite some distance, but the two front seat occupants would take turns driving. They would switch about every five or six hours, with short breaks in between. The interviewee claimed they were only driving no more than one half hour from the last break, before the impact occurred. No emotional or fatigue related issues were mentioned as a factor of this crash. In addition, no internal or external distractions could be attributed to this crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for this incident was coded as other motor vehicle encroachment from opposite direction-over left lane line. No Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was coded to this vehicle.