The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a two-way roadway that is divided by a center median with three lanes in each direction. It was daylight and clear and the ground was wet from a previous rainstorm. The roadway was straight and level and had a posted speed limit of 48kmph (30mph).

V1 was a 2000 Mercedes-Benz ML320 that was stopped for the Traffic control device when it was rear-ended by V2, a 1996 Toyota Corolla. Both vehicles came to final rest in the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 42 year-old male who did not sustain any injuries and was unable to be located for an interview. V1 was driven away before it could be inspected.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded as other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in the same direction with higher speed. The Critical reason for the Critical event was not coded to the vehicle. Although the roads were wet the driver of V1 was not thought to have contributed to the crash.

V2 was driven by a 41 year-old male in good health despite a history of high blood pressure (for which he took an unknown medication). The driver stated that the intersection had two sets of traffic control devices and he thought that the driver of V1 would go through the second set after he went through the first set. The driver attempted to avoid the crash by braking (with lock-up) and steering right, but impacted the rear of V1 regardless. The driver of V2 suffered no injuries but V2 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as a driver related factor, false assumption of other's actions. The driver assumed that V1 was going to go through second set of traffic lights. An associated factor was a highway related factor, wet roads. The driver was also taking two unidentified prescription medication for high blood pressure and high cholesterol.