This three-vehicle crash occurred at a four-way intersection. There are five north-south lanes, the center lane of the north and south legs are left-turn lanes. There is a dedicated right turn lane for northbound traffic, divided by a painted median. The intersection is controlled by a traffic light on colors with a pedestrian signal. The asphalt roadway had no indication of defects. The crash occurred at during early evening dusk hours in clear weather. There were no sight line restrictions and no obstructions noted at the scene. The speed limit on the north/south roadway is posted 72 kmph (45 mph). The speed limit on the east/west roadway is posted 56 kmph (35 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Ford Crown Victoria sedan, driven by a 72 year-old female was traveling southbound in the third lane of a five-lane, two-way, undivided roadway, and intending to turn left at an intersection into eastbound traffic. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Suzuki Sidekick, driven by a 60 year-old female was traveling northbound in the second lane of opposing traffic, intending to pass straight through the same intersection. Vehicle three (V3), a 1990 Chevrolet Motor home, driven by a 48 year-old male with three passengers was stopped facing westbound in the second lane. V1 moved ahead into the intersection and stopped, awaiting an opportunity to turn left. When the light turned yellow, V1 began turning as V2 entered the intersection. The front of V2 impacted the right side of V1. V1 rotated clockwise and moved northeast into the westbound lanes, where the back of V1 contacted the front of V3, bringing V1 to rest. V2 also rotated clockwise from impact and deflected northeast, coming to rest along the north curb of westbound traffic. V1 was towed due to damage; V2 and V3 were driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was attributed to V1 as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's action. The driver stated she assumed other vehicle would stop.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction, over left lane line. The critical reason not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason not coded to this vehicle.