The crash happened mid-morning involving one passenger car and one van on a divided roadway with a raised median. The speed limit on the roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph) The road surface concrete dry and there was no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash. The roadway alignment prior to the crash site consists of a slight left-curvature. The roadway has a 6 % uphill slope prior to the crash site.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Saturn Sl, was stopped in the third lane of a four- lane divided (no positive barrier) roadway. V1 was about to make a left turn into the entrance of an apartment complex located east of the northbound travel lanes. V1 was facing south. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Ford Econoline Van, was traveling south in the same lane. V2's front impacted the rear of V1. V1 rotated clockwise and moved south. V1 crossed all three southbound travel lanes and departed the roadway to the west. The front left corner of V1 impacted a low brick wall located west of the roadway. V1 came to rest at the brick wall. V2 came to rest near the original impact area. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Both vehicles traveled on a left curve uphill road prior to the crash. V2's driver could not provide an accurate estimate how far V1 was ahead of him, but there were no following too close factors involved. It is unlikely the elevation of the roadway was a factor for the driver of V2 to recognize V1 too late. V1 slowed down to a stop prior to the crash. The driver of V2 stated he was going around 72 kmph (45 mph) in a 56 kmph (35 mph) zone. V2 was used as a delivery van. The van was used as a delivery van by a flower delivery service. The cargo consisted of flower pots in a Styrofoam carrier. The cargo shifted forward but had insignificant weight, about 23 kg's (50 lbs). For coding purposes this was insufficient weight to be considered as cargo.

The driver of V1 was a 20 year old female, who also had a 12 year old passenger in the vehicle. They were on their way from the driver's house to visit with a friend. The driver was well rested, does not have any employment, and was in good health. She drives the route daily but does not have a driver's license. She was stopped to make a left turn from the wrong travel lane. She had no previous driver training, and did not say how long she had been driving for. Driver inexperience was an unknown factor for this driver. V1 was stopped in the travel lane waiting to make a left turn. V1 was towed from the scene. V2 was driven from the scene. Both drivers refused to be treated by an ambulance. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction at higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V2 was a 59 year old male who claimed to be attentive to the driving task and looking straight ahead prior to the collision with no distractions. He stated he was traveling at a constant velocity prior to impact and his vision of V1 was not obscured. He was coming from work on his way to a customers's location to make a delivery. His health was fair with high blood pressure as a pre-existing condition. He did not say if he was taking medication for this condition. He claimed to be rested with 7 hours of sleep the previous night and works 40 hours per week. He drives the route daily and was familiar with driving the vehicle. There were no vehicle factors present and it was in good working order. He was in a hurry due to his work related delivery schedule. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped, The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V2 as a driver related factor: too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others.