A crash occurred during morning daylight hours involving a passenger car and a tractor pulling one trailer at an intersection with traffic lights. The speed limit for the roadway is 54 kmph (35 mph). The road is a 3-lane divided (no positive barrier) downhill asphalt roadway from north to south. It is an undivided (two-way traffic) 3-lane up hill road from south to north. Lane 2 is a left turn lane only. The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Toyota Celica driven by a 34 year-old male, was traveling south in lane two of the southbound lanes attempting to pass through an intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Freightliner tractor with one trailer driven by a 22 year-old female, was traveling north in the fourth lane attempting a left turn from the fourth lane of traffic at an intersection. The front of V1 impacted with the front of V2. Both vehicles came to rest within the intersection. V1 was towed from the scene the driver of V1 suffered minor injuries but refused to be treated by an ambulance on location. V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Prior to the crash, the driver of V1 approached the intersection driving at the speed limit. She saw the truck tractor proceeding into the intersection. According to her own statement the truck was already too far into the intersection. She thought the truck would yield the right of way, and did not take evasive action or slowed down until she realized the truck would not yield the right of way.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; form opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V2 was driving a semi truck for just 9 month. She assured the researcher she got all the required sleep prior to starting her current trip, and was not in a hurry. At the time of the crash she has driven about 482 kilometers (300 miles) in 7.7 hours. According to her own information, she rarely drives on this roadway. Her truck cabin was full of communication equipment including a GPS/communication unit mounted on the steering wheel. Inexperience, distraction and fatigue could have played a role in her decision to make a left turn despite noticing V1 approaching the intersection.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was assigned to V2 as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or others speed. The driver did not have a protected left turn arrow and did not have the right of way.