The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of an east / west arterial road that was straight along the portion that the crash occurred. The road has a grass median which divides four lanes of travel (two in each direction). The road is intersected on the south side by a residential street that has two lanes (one north, one south) with a stop sign controlling the residential street's traffic. The residential street has a positive grade of 4% at the stop sign. The arterial road has a positive grade of 2 % approximately 50 meters west of the intersection just before it levels off at the intersecting road. The posted speed limit on the residential road is 30mph / 48kph. The posted speed limit on the arterial road is 50mph / 80kph. The crash occurred in the late morning on a weekday, under daylight and dry conditions.

Vehicle 1 was a 2002 Ford Taurus in the left turn lane on the westbound side of the arterial road turning left across eastbound traffic when it was impacted on the right side by Vehicle 2, a 2000 Oldsmobile Alero. Vehicle 1 then spun counter-clockwise and came to rest straddling the left yellow fog line of the eastbound lanes at the edge of the median on the east side of the intersection and was facing east. Vehicle 2 came to rest in its original travel lane facing east in the southeast corner of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle 1 was driven by a 38 year-old female that was belted whose airbags did not deploy. She was uninjured in the crash. Accompanying her in the car was a 45-year old belted male that was also not injured.

The critical pre-crash event for Vehicle 1 was this vehicle traveling: turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was a recognition error: inadequate surveillance, looked, but did not see. Associated factors included a sightline restriction caused by a non-contact vehicle that was stopped in the left eastbound lane waiting to turn left. The driver of vehicle 1 stated that she could not see completely around it. Turned with obstructed view and impending problem masked by traffic flow pattern were also coded. The driver was also talking with the passenger at the time of the crash. She was wearing glasses to correct a nearsighted condition.

Vehicle 2 was driven by a 68 year-old female that was belted with deployed frontal airbags. Although listed on the police report as sustaining possible injuries, she was not transported to any local treatment center to be treated.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle 2 was other vehicle encroachment: from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle. The only contributing factor for this vehicle was vision impairment: driver needs glasses (has prescription for them) but was not wearing them at the time of the crash.