This crash occurred mid-morning involving two passenger cars at an intersection with traffic lights. The speed limit for the roadway is 54 kmph (35 mph). The road is a 4-lane divided (no positive barrier) right curved concrete roadway for southbound approach to the intersection. The roadway for westbound approach to the intersection was a slight left curve ending at the intersection. It featured 4 lanes of travel, with two lanes in each direction. The westbound lanes included a right turn only lane and a left-turn/straight lane. A green arrow protected the left turn. The road surface is concrete and was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Honda Civic driven by a 29 year-old female was traveling west attempting a left turn from the second lane of travel at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Lexus LS 430, driven by a 82 year-old female was traveling south in the second lane going straight through the intersection. V 1 turned left at the intersection with the intention to enter the third lane of southbound traffic. After entering the southbound lanes, V1 partially crossed the lane line of lane 2 during the left turn movement. At this instant, the left front corner of V2 impacted with the right rear of V 1. V1 rotated clockwise and moved further south. It moved into lane 1 facing northwest. V 1 was impacted on the right side again by V2's right front . During this collision, the right rear wheel was separated from V1. V1 departed the roadway to the west and impacted a utility pole with its left side. It came to rest at the utility pole facing north. V2 rotated clockwise after the impact, and continued to move in the first lane of the southbound lanes. It dragged V1's right rear wheel for about 15 meters (49 feet) south, causing sideswipe type damage to the right side V2 before the wheel separated from V2. V2 departed the road to the right and came to rest partially off the road and partially in lane 1, facing south. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. The driver of V1 was transported to a local medical facility treated and released. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: poor directional control (e.g., failing to control vehicle with skill ordinarily expected). This coding was chosen because the driver failed to maintain control of the vehicle within the number 3 southbound lane and traveled into the number two lane where V2 was traveling. This vehicle had a protected left turn arrow at the intersection and the driver turned left without the arrow, an illegal maneuver.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment: from crossing street, turning into same direction, No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle.