V1, a 1993 Chevrolet Cavalier, was traveling southbound on a 4-lane, one-way dry asphalt roadway in the late afternoon hours. V1 was approaching an intersection intending to go straight. V2, a 2004 Pontiac Grand Am, was traveling eastbound on a 4-lane, one-way dry asphalt roadway in similar conditions. V2 was also approaching the intersection intending to go straight. Both roadways had a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). Both vehicles entered the intersection at approximately the same time. The front of V2 contacted the right front of V1. V1 rotated in a counterclockwise direction and the right rear of V1 "slapped" the left rear side of V2. V1 then departed the roadway to the south before coming to final rest. After the initial impact, V2 rotated in a clockwise direction and the left rear side of V2 was struck by the right rear of V1.

The driver of V1 was a 23-year old female who reported that she had been traveling between 34-48 kmph (21-30 mph) prior to the crash. She stated that she could not see the traffic light because the sun was in her eyes. She had no health-related problems and was rested and traveling home. She was wearing her prescribed lenses that corrected a myopic (nearsighted condition). She was uninjured in the crash and refused treatment. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was an illegal maneuver because the driver of V1 went through a red light. Her contention that the sun was in her eyes was discounted due to her direction of travel (south) and the fact that a witness who was traveling in the same direction behind V1 had no problem seeing the red traffic light.

The driver of V2 was a 56-year old female who reported that she had been traveling between 50-64 kmph (31-40 mph) prior to the crash. She noticed that V1 was coming at her so she tried to steer left and hit the brakes. She was rested and traveling home. She had a history of high blood pressure and was taking medication for it. She was wearing her prescribed lenses that corrected a hyperopic (far-sighted) condition. She sustained minor injuries and was transported to a local trauma facility.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to the driver of V2 and she was not thought to have contributed to the crash. She took appropriate avoidance actions.