This two-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours on a weekday. The crash occurred at the intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway, which are both designated 56 kmph (35 mph) zones. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light traffic signal without a protected left turn phase. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse atmospheric conditions, and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Nissan extended cab pickup, was traveling eastbound in the fourth lane of a seven-lane, two-way, undivided, dry, level, bituminous roadway. V1 was stopped in the middle of the intersection and awaiting an opportunity to turn left into northbound traffic. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Dodge Durango, was traveling westbound in the third lane of opposing traffic, approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. As V1 made its turn, the front of V1 impacted the left side of V2. V1 spun counter-clockwise and came to rest facing west in the westbound lanes. V2 deflected right and departed the road over the northwest corner, where the front of V1 impacted a steel traffic signal pole, bringing V2 to rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 23-year-old male driver of V1 is licensed to drive in Mexico, and has received no driver's training. He reported that he was watching a vehicle in front of V2 pass through the intersection, and he did not observe V2's approach. As the extraneous vehicle passed, the tri-light entered the yellow phase, and the driver of V1 proceeded to turn, not seeing V2. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was: This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver related recognition error, inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

The 30-year-old female driver of V2 reported that she observed V1 stopped in the intersection as she approached. She said that V1 was "creeping forward", but she did not take any evasive action and instead proceeded through the intersection as the light entered the yellow phase. An associative factor of false assumption of other's action was attributed to V2. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was: Other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over left lane line. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.