The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a two-way, eleven-lane interstate roadway, divided by a concrete barrier. There were six southbound and five northbound lanes. The roadway curved slightly to the left. This was a level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 105 kmph (65 mph). Conditions were dark on a weekday evening with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, an unknown make/model, was traveling southbound in lane one (the exit lane). V2, a 1992 Honda Civic with three occupants, was traveling in lane two. V1 was traveling slower than V2. As V1 began to pass the slower moving vehicle, V1 changed lanes, making contact with V2. The driver of V2 lost control of the vehicle. V2 continued to travel southwest, in a clockwise rotation, making contact several times with a guardrail. V1 left the scene of the crash. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.

V1 was a hit and run vehicle. The Critical Precrash Event was this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the left side of travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was an unknown recognition error. For unknown reasons, the driver of the hit and run vehicle failed to perceive or comprehend the surrounding circumstances. One associated factor for this driver was decision related. He or she was traveling too slowly for the traffic stream. The driver was traveling at about 72 kmph (45 mph) in a 105 kmph (65 mph) speed zone. Another possible associated factor could have been vehicle related, although the nature of the vehicle factor could not be determined. The vehicle was moving with the hazard lights on, indicating some sort of vehicle related problem. The driver was initially in an exit lane, and should have exited the interstate, but did not.

V2, the Honda Civic, was driven by a 20-year old male who reported no injuries. He stated that he was on his way home from basketball practice. He was in the lane next to the exit lane. He noticed an older model hatchback up ahead, driving very slow with its hazard lights on. The driver said that he assumed the vehicle was having car trouble and was going to get off at the exit because that's what lane the other car was in. He didn't think much of it, and continued southbound. As he began to pass the other car, his friend in the passenger seat screamed and the driver looked over to see V1 changing into his lane. The driver believes that is when the two vehicles made minor contact. He said that he jerked the wheel to the left, hit the brakes, and then overcorrected to the right, losing control. The driver stated that he rotated many times, making contact along the guardrail. He traveled approximately 150 meters before coming to final rest.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane (same direction) over the right lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. One associated factor for this driver could have been fatigue. The driver had just come from basketball practice and stated that he felt fatigued at the start of that portion of the trip. Another factor could have been recognition related. The driver was conversing with friends in the vehicle. Another associated factor might have been aggressive driving. Based on the distance between impact and final rest, it was concluded that the driver of V2 was probably speeding. Driver related experience may have also been a factor. The driver only has two years of driving experience, and had never taken any form of driver education.