The crash occurred on a north/south roadway at an intersection with an east/westbound roadway. The north/south roadway was a five-lane undivided urban highway. There were three south and two northbound lanes. The third southbound lane was a left turn only lane. The westbound roadway was divided by a raised concrete curb median with four westbound lanes and three eastbound lanes. All lanes were controlled by a traffic signal at the intersection. The roadway had a posted speed of 72 KMPH (45 MPH). The conditions were morning on a weekday with dry roads and clear skies.

Vehicle # 1 was a 1997 BMW traveling southbound in lane three making a left hand turn. Vehicle #2 was a 2000 Ford Econoline van that was traveling westbound in lane two at approximately 48 KMPH, intending to travel straight through the intersection. Vehicle #1 had a green arrow and attempted to make a left hand turn. The driver of Vehicle #2 also claimed he had a green light. The front of Vehicle #1 collided with the right side of Vehicle #2. Both vehicles were moved off the roadway and there were no injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The BMW was driven by a 40-year old male. He stated that he approached the intersection to make a left hand turn and never saw Vehicle #2. The BMW was towed due to damages. The driver of V1 reported working 60-70 hours a week and training for a marathon, which could make him fatigued although he said he was not. The officer indicated that this driver was not at fault for the accident.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of Vehicle #1 was this vehicle turning left at an intersection. The Critical Reason was not coded for this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to this driver.

The driver of Vehicle #2, a 31-year old male, claimed to have had a green light as he went through the intersection. Vehicle damage indicated that V2 had a lot of speed when struck by V1. The officer felt that V2 ran a red light, and vehicle damage substantiated this belief. Vehicle #1 struck the right side of the van. The van was not towed due to damages.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of Vehicle #2 was when he attempted to cross over the intersection. The Critical Reason was an illegal maneuver. An additional associated factor coded to this driver was unfamiliarity with the roadway, as he reported that he had rarely traveled on it.