This is a two vehicle left turn intersection crash that occurred at 0817 hours on a two way, five lane, dry asphalt roadway. The roadway has two northbound and two southbound lanes to the north of the intersection that is separated by a left turn lane. The roadway has two northbound and two southbound lanes that are separated by a left turn lane to the south of the intersection. There is also a dedicated right turn lane. The cross street has one westbound and two eastbound lanes on the east side of the intersection that are separated by a raised median. There are also two left turn lanes at the east side of the intersection and a dedicated right turn lane. There is one westbound and two eastbound lanes to the west of the intersection separated by a left turn lane. The area where the two roadways meet is controlled by a traffic light on colors with a pedestrian crossing light. There were no environmental factors that contributed to this crash. There were no sight line restrictions or obstructions noted. The speed limit for the westbound/eastbound roadway is posted 56 kmph (35 MPH). The speed limit for the northbound/southbound roadway is posted 72 kmph (45 MPH).

V-1, a 2000 Hyundai Elantra 4 dr, driven by a 51 year-old male was traveling northbound in the left turn lane approaching the intersection. The vehicle entered the intersection on a green light and made a left turn across the path of V-2. The front of V-1 struck the left front corner of V-2. The impact caused V-1 to rotate counterclockwise and began to travel in a southerly direction through the intersection for approximately 24 meters before it came to rest in the number one southbound lane to the south of the intersection. The vehicle was towed due to damage the driver was transported to a local medical facility. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

V-2, a 1986 Lincoln Town Car 4 dr, driven by a 27 year-old female was traveling southbound in the number one lane at between 64-72 kmph (40-45 MPH) approaching the intersection on a green light. The driver of V-2, stated that she saw V-1 approaching the intersection. The vehicle then began to make a left turn and struck her vehicle. The driver of V-2 stated that she did apply the brakes but did not know if the brakes locked up. After impact, V-2 rotated clockwise and traveled in a southerly direction coming to rest near the west side of the intersection facing in a southwesterly direction. and was towed due to damage.

The pre event movement for V-1 was coded going straight . The critical pre crash event was coded This vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection . The critical reason was coded driver related factor- false assumption of other's actions. (The driver said that he did not know he was supposed to yield to traffic traveling southbound). Assuming that the other driver would yield the right of way to him, was a false assumption on the part of the driver of vehicle one. The pre crash movement for V-2 was coded going straight . The critical pre crash event was coded other vehicle encroachment-from opposite direction-over the left lane line . The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.