This three-vehicle crash occurred mid-afternoon on a dry, straight, uphill, two-lane, bituminous, roadway that runs north to south and supports two-way traffic. The crash occurred in a construction area and traffic was congested at the time of the crash. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions present at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1989 Chevrolet K-1500 pickup truck was traveling southbound in lane one at 56 KPH(35 mph). V1 was towing a boat. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Kia Optima was stopped in lane one just south of the construction entrance. Vehicle three (V3), a 2002 Nissan Maxima was also stopped in lane one just south of the construction entrance. The front of V1 struck the rear of V2. The front of V2 then struck the rear of V3. The front of V3 then struck the rear of a forth vehicle that was not included in the police report. All three vehicles vehicle stopped at impact. V1 was towed due to disabling damage, V2 was towed due to non-disabling damage and V3 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

There was no interview with the drivers of V1 and V2. The driver of V1 is a seventy-one year old male. There is no know pre-crash information on this driver and the vehicle was not inspected. The driver of V2 is a seventy-year-old female. There is no known pre-crash information on this driver. The vehicle was inspected and there are no vehicle factors noted. The driver of V3 is a sixty-two year old male. This driver was stopped when he was impacted on the rear plane. Before the crash this driver was in a conversation with the passengers in the vehicle. This conversation was of a social nature.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: type of driver error unknown. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event for V2 was not coded to this vehicle. V3 was not involved in the first harmful event; and the critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.