This single vehicle crash occurred during late afternoon dusk hours in a residential, T-intersection. The north/south road is 2-way, not divided, consists of 2 travel lanes, is straight, runs downhill for northbound traffic and is of bituminous construction. There is a stop sign for northbound traffic at the intersection. The east/west roadway has the same characteristics as the north/south roadway except that it is level in the crash area. The posted speed limit for both roadways is 40 kph (25 mph). At the time of the crash, there were no sight restrictions, road defects, or adverse weather conditions, however, it was dusk.

Vehicle #1 (V1), a dark green 1994 Cadillac Seville 4-door, had been stopped partially in lane one and partially off the right side of the road. The previous V1 driver, a 59 year old female, had exited V1 to "drop off some supplies" and after she was away from V1, noticed it rolling down a steep grade, entering lane two, going through the stop sign at the T intersection, departing the north edge of the T intersection and impacting a telephone pole with its front. V1 rebounded somewhat backwards from the pole and came to rest on its wheels in the number one westbound lane facing generally north. The V1 motor was not running at the time of the crash. There were 2 minor children in V1. A 13-year-old female was in the right front seat, and an 8-year-old female was in the back, restrained in a child safety booster seat. This occupant reportedly got out of the child seat, climbed into the drivers seating position, and then either inadvertently knocked the transmission into drive or released the emergency brake. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1.

The non-restrained minor child in the driver's seat was transported to a trauma center with minor injuries. V1 was towed due to damage.

The critical pre-crash event was coded "this vehicle traveling-end departure." The critical reason was coded "other performance error (8-year-old driver)." A representative from Child Protective Services provided limited interview information.