A two-vehicle daytime collision occurred around noon on a overcast Monday. The collision occurred in the northbound lane of a wet, two-lane, two-way bituminous roadway. The pre-crash roadway is a long curve with curve warning signs posted for each direction of travel. The posted speed limit for the roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph).

Vehicle 1 (V1), a 1993 Hyundai Excel 2-door coupe, was traveling south in lane one, which is initially straight and then curves to the right. In the straight section of the road there are warning signs that a traffic signal for an intersection is ahead in addition to Chevron curve warning signs once the curve nears. Vehicle 2 (V2), a 1996 Dodge Caravan, was traveling north in lane one heading up the hill negotiating a curve to the left. As V1 was negotiating the curve to the left it crossed the centerline of the roadway and the front left of V1 impacted the left side of V2. V1 came to rest in the northbound lane. V1 and V2 were both towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 20-year-old Hispanic male whose pre-crash factors are unknown, as he was not interviewed, due to language barrier. He was not registered as the owner of the vehicle, so it is unknown how familiar he was with the vehicle. The police report listed that this vehicle being over the center lane line as a contributing circumstance to the collision. A witness who was traveling behind V2 observed V1 slide across the wet roadway into V2's travel lane. The critical pre-crash event was coded: This vehicle traveling/ over lane line on left side of travel lane. In addition to the wet roadway, a contributing factor for the control loss was that both rear tires were under-inflated; however, the right rear tire was severely under-inflated with just 41 kPA (6 psi) of pressure. The tires were all of the same size, but different manufacturers made all four tires. There were precrash skid marks from V1 leading from the original travel lane across the centerline into the on-coming travel lane. The skid marks are in a straight fashion and do not indicate the vehicle was in a yaw at impact. The witness indicated that traffic in V1's travel lane was not backed up from the light.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was assigned to this driver for losing control of his vehicle and crossing into on-coming traffic and considered a driver decision factor of traveling too fast for the curve with contributing factors being the wet road and under-inflated tires.

The driver of V2 was a 59-year-old male whose pre-crash factors are unknown, as he was not interviewed. The critical pre-crash event was coded: other motor vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction- over the left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.