The crash occurred at the intersection of a two-way, two-lane, rural, bituminous roadway with an un-posted speed limit of 80 kmh (50 mph), and a gravel/slag two-way, two-lane residential driveway. It was afternoon on a weekday during daylight hours the conditions were cloudy and dry.

V1, a 1995 Mercury Sable LS 4 door was traveling westbound looking for a driveway. V2, 2001 Dodge Stratus SE 2 door was traveling eastbound going straight. As V1 was proceeding up the hill to turn left into a driveway, V2 came up the other side of the hill and V2's front contacted V1's right front. They then side slapped and V1's right back contacted V2's left back. V1 came to rest off the road on the south side facing east. V2 came to rest on the south side in the driveway facing south. Both vehicles were towed due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, a 1995 Mercury Sable, was driven by an 18 year-old female, who stated she was traveling westbound on the road, looking for the driveway. The driver was transporting her younger brother's two friends to their homes. The front right passenger was telling the driver which driveway in which to turn. The driver was not very familiar with the area where the crash occurred. The driver stated that she slowed down to 56 kmh (35 mph) and began her turn. The driver did not see V2 traveling eastbound coming over a hill until it was too late for avoidance maneuvers. The front right corner of V1 was struck by the front of V2. V1 rotated counterclockwise and the right back of V1 struck the left back of V2. V1 continued to rotate counterclockwise and came to rest off of the road on the south side facing east. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. The driver and both passengers were fully restrained. The 15 year-old front right and back right male passengers were transported due to possible injuries.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to the driver of V1 was 'this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection.' The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded was 'driver related factor inadequate surveillance-failed to look.' A sight restriction was coded due to the driveway's close proximity to the crest of the hill. A contributing factor of the driver's unfamiliarity with the roadway was coded. Two local residents interviewed stated that when they are traveling westbound to turn left into the driveway, they pull all the way up to the far side of the drive, closer to the crest of the hill, in order to observe the eastbound lane, before they make the turn. In addition, this is a relatively inexperienced driver, having only had her license for two years.

V2, 2001 Dodge Stratus SE 2 door, driven by a 23 year-old male on his way to his parent's home after work, was traveling eastbound on the bituminous road negotiating an S-curve. The driver of V2 stated that he was traveling 72 kmh (45 mph). V2 came out of the curve on a >2% uphill slope, crested a hill and as he continued into the downhill slope, saw V1 making a left hand turn in front of him into the driveway on the south side of the road. The driver of V2 braked (with full lock-up), and steered right onto the gravel shoulder. The front of V2 struck the front right corner of V1 on the shoulder. V2 rotated clockwise and the left back of V2 struck the right back of V1. V2 came to rest on the south shoulder facing south. V2 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver denied injuries.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to the driver of V2 was 'other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line.' The roadway features also were coded as a sight restriction for this driver.