This two vehicle crash occurred shortly before noon during daylight hours on a six lane concrete raised median divided roadway, with three Eastbound lanes and three Westbound lanes. The crash occurred in the late morning, the weather was clear, and the roadway was straight, level, and dry. The speed limit on the roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph). The crash was located in an intersection area with an approximate 24 meter long (79 feet) gap in the raised median that allowed turns into an abandoned business property north of the roadway.

Vehicle one (V 1), a 1989 Dodge Dynasty sedan driven by a 20 year-old female with one passenger was traveling eastbound in the third lane approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V 2), a 1990 Nissan Maxima sedan driven by a 23 year old female was Westbound in the third lane approaching the intersection.. V1 began to make a U-turn across the third Westbound lane. The front of V2 impacted with the right side of V1. Both vehicles traveled off the roadway to the Northwest, where V1 struck a utility pole with it's front end, coming to final rest at the pole. V2 came to final rest behind V1. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene. The drivers and passenger were transported to a local medical facility. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related recognition factor: external distraction. The driver focused attention on her cousin's vehicle traveling in the opposite direction. Because the driver's attention was focused on the vehicle she thought it was her cousin's, she began her U-turn without adequate surveillance and judgment of the surrounding traffic. An associated factor for this vehicle, in a hurry, illegal u-turn. Another associated factor coded to this vehicle was a decision error, false assumption: assumed that other driver would yield right-of-way.

Per partial interview on-scene, driver V2 thought that V1 was going to wait before attempting to complete the U-turn. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction, over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.