This two-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours on a weekday morning. The crash occurred on a straight, level stretch of an eight-lane, two-way bituminous north-south roadway, just prior to an intersection with an east-west roadway. The intersection was controlled by a tri-light traffic signal, and the speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph) in all directions. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions, and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a Toyota 4-Runner SUV of unknown year, was traveling southbound in the fourth lane, approaching the intersection. The fourth lane is designated for left turns only. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Honda Odyssey, was stopped at the intersection ahead of V1 in the same lane. V1 applied the brakes and skidded forwards, where the front of V1 impacted the back of V2. Both vehicles came to rest in their original lane. After the crash, V1 backed up, made a U-turn, and fled the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

Nothing is known about the driver of V1. Physical evidence and witness accounts indicate that at some point the driver of V1 realized that a crash was imminent and applied the brakes (with lockup), but was unable to avoid a collision. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: Other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related error, type of driver error unknown.

The 30-year-old male driver of V2 was stopped at the red light and waiting for the green phase to turn left into eastbound traffic. The driver and three passengers had just left a shopping center, where they had purchased a new television that was in the cargo area. They were on their way home at the time of the crash. The driver reported that he heard the screeching of tires just prior to the collision, but never saw V1's approach. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.