A three vehicle daytime collision occurred on a cloudy weekday during mid-afternoon daylight hours. The collision occurred on a north/south roadway on approach to a driveway. The roadway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of five lanes which includes a two-way left turn center lane. The driveway is located at the west edge of the roadway. The driveway is undivided, dry, level (except for a sag as it enters the roadway), and consists of two lanes. The roadway is designated a 56 kmph (35 mph) zone. Parallel parking is allowed on both sides of the street. A large truck that was parallel parked just north of the driveway restricted the sightline of the drivers of both vehicle one and vehicle two.

Vehicle one (V1) is an unknown hit and run vehicle. V1 was exiting the west edge driveway in an attempt to turn left onto the roadway. V2 is a 2005 Nissan Altima four-door that was traveling southbound in lane one approaching the intersection. Vehicle three (V3) is a 2001 Mazda 626 four-door sedan that was legally parked in a private parking lot located on the east side of the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

As V1 made the left turn onto the roadway, its front plane contacted the right plane of V2. V2 rotated clockwise as it traveled in a southwesterly direction, and ran off the east road edge. V2 struck the curb before it entered a parking lot. The left plane of V2 then contacted two utility pole stumps used for decorative purposes. The front of V2 came to rest facing west in the private parking lot, as its front contacted the left plane of V3. V1 fled the scene and was never identified. V2 was towed and the driver was transported. V3 was unoccupied.

The driver of V1 fled the scene. Unfortunately, the police could not locate the driver or vehicle. There is no information regarding V1.

The driver of V2 is a 21-year-old female traveling from her home to the bank. The driver had only been on the road for approximately five minutes. The driver is eight months pregnant. She takes vitamins. She has been on disability, from work, for a week because of her pregnancy. She has only been driving for 15 months. The driver informed the researcher that V1 was exiting the driveway as she passed. The driver stated that she could not see V1 because of a large truck that was parked north of the driveway.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning right at Intersection. The Critical Reason was assigned to V1 as an environmental related factor: view obstruction by other vehicles. The vehicle that was parked along the west curb obstructed both the view of V1 and V2. Vehicle two had the right of way.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from driveway, turning into same direction. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.