This two-vehicle crash occurred near a three-legged intersection. The north/south roadway is level and divided by a curbed median. In the southbound direction, the roadway is curved to the right (radius of curvature 126 meters) and consists of two through lanes with a left turn lane at the intersection. The speed limit on this roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph). The east/west roadway (on the east side of the north/south roadway) is straight, has one lane in each direction, an eight percent uphill grade and is controlled by a stop sign. The speed limit on this roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Chevrolet Cavalier, was stopped westbound at the stop sign. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Nissan pickup, was southbound in lane two. V1 turned left at the intersection. Just south of the intersection, the front of V2 struck the right side of V1. The vehicles rotated and the right side of V1 struck the left side of V2. V2 departed the roadway to the right and the front struck a lamppost. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-year-old female, was traveling from her workplace to a medical appointment. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She drives this route daily. This driver stated that she looked both directions before entering the intersection. This driver saw V2 but thought that she had time to turn southbound before V2 reached the intersection. She steered right and accelerated in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The driver of V2, a forty-two-year-old female, was traveling from work to her home. She was well rested, in good health and comfortable with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. She has a thyroid condition and takes the medication Synthroid. This driver stated that she saw V1 but did not think V1 would enter the intersection. She steered right and applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; misjudgment of gap or other's speed."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into same direction." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."