This four-vehicle crash occurred on a weekend afternoon on a north/south roadway with a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). This roadway had a total of four physically undivided travel lanes with two lanes being for southbound travel and the other two lanes allowed for northbound travel. The weather was cloudy; the asphalt surface dry and free of defects, and this stretch of road was level and straight.

Vehicle 1 (V1), a 1992 Isuzu Rodeo driven by a 56-year old male, was traveling northbound in lane 1. The driver stated that he was working a few extra hours making some deliveries and that he rarely travels this road. When asked what happened the driver's first response was, "I took my eyes off the road for a second." When asked, "Was there a distraction or some reason that happened?" driver replied stating, "People was walking by here (driver pointed towards the sidewalk to his right) and they was fighting. When I looked back on the street they (driver pointed to V2, V3, and V4) was all stopped for a light." (all statements in quotations are verbatim statements.) The driver also explained "I didn't know that there was a light up there." The driver stated that all he could do was apply his brakes. When driver engaged his foot brakes, his wheels locked up and he skidded directly into the rear of Vehicle 2 (V2). V1 sustained minor damage and remained fully operational. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

V2, a 2005 Nissan Altima driven by a 65-year-old female was stopped for a red light and there were 5 other vehicles that were stopped in front of her. She explained that she was quite familiar with this particular roadway and was on her way to meet a friend for at a nearby eatery. She stated that as she was sitting for the traffic light, V1 slammed into the rear of her vehicle. The majority of the impact was absorbed by the V2's trunk, though V1 struck V2 with enough force that V2 was pushed forward and into the rear of Vehicle 3 (V3).

V3, a 1995 Honda Accord driven by a 33-year-old male was stopped directly in front of V2 and also stopped for the red light. Four other vehicles were stopped in front of him. The driver explained that he was very familiar with this roadway and uses it on a weekly basis. He stated that he was out for an afternoon with his daughter. As he was waiting for the light to change, he heard the screeching tires of V1 and then heard the impact of V1 as it struck V2. As this rear-end chain reaction continued, his vehicle was struck from behind by V1 and was pushed forward with just enough force that his vehicle struck the rear of V4. The damage sustained to the front of V1 and to the rear of V4 was nothing more than paint transfer and slight scratches. V3 remained fully operational and was able to be driven from the scene.

V4, a 1996 Lincoln Continental driven by a 34-year-old female was also in lane 1 and stopped behind three other vehicles that were all stopped for the red traffic light. She stated that the light for the intersecting street had just turned to yellow, and that she was expecting the traffic light to turn green at any second. It was at that time when she heard screeching tires from behind her and the sounds of the major impact to V2's rear by the front of V1. She also stated that she felt as if she had been only bumped by the front of V3 and that it was very minor.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was other motor vehicle stopped in lane. The Critical Reason for Critical Pre-Crash Event was a driver related factor/external distraction. Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 were: inadequate surveillance in that the driver failed to look far enough ahead which could have allowed him to have seen the traffic light, and an associated factor of being unfamiliar with the roadway in that the driver rarely travels in this area or on this roadway. An associated factor coded to the driver's vehicle was: worn tire tread on all for tires.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason for Critical Pre-Crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to this driver.

The Critical Pre-Crash Events and Reasons were not coded to either V3 or V4 for they were not involved in the first harmful event. No associated factors were coded to either of these drivers or their vehicles.

Emergency medical services were dispatched to the scene. All drivers and the one passenger in V3 stated that they were not in need of medical transport. The driver of V2 stated that she didn't feel well but wasn't certain if she was hurt or just shaken up. All drivers and occupants were wearing their seat-belts.