This three-vehicle crash occurred mid-afternoon at the intersection of a five-lane, north/south roadway and a driveway entrance to a parking area and general merchandise store. The driveway is on the east side of the roadway and is 11.6 meters wide. The driveway can be entered from the number one northbound traffic lane. There are no traffic controls for the five-lane roadway at this location and there were no traffic controls for the driveway. The north/south road is straight, dry, asphalt and level with no traffic controls. The posted speed limit for the north/south roadways is 56 kph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one(V1), a 2005 Ford Explorer XLT suv driven by a 70 year-old female was northbound in the number one lane of the five-lane roadway approaching the driveway at a speed of about 56 kph (35 mph). Vehicle two(V2), a 2003 Cadillac Deville sedan driven by a 79 year-old male with one passenger was traveling ahead of vehicle one in the same number one curb lane. Vehicle two slowed to about 5 mph and began to make a right turn into the driveway and parking area. Vehicle three(V3), a 1996 Plymouth Grand Voyager SE van driven by a 46 year-old female was stopped at the entrance of the driveway, facing west, and intended to turn right onto the five-lane roadway. The driver of vehicle one failed to stop and struck vehicle two in the rear. Vehicle two was then propelled forward and the front struck the left side of vehicle three. A secondary impact occurred when the vehicles rotated into each other causing damage to the left rear bumper corner of each vehicle. All three vehicles were moved to a location in the parking lot. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

V1 category other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in dame direction while decelerating. Critical reason driver related factor "Following to closely to respond to unexpected actions".

V2 category this vehicle traveling turning right at intersection. Critical reason not coded to this vehicle.

V3 category other this vehicle not involved in first harmful event.