This crash took place at the entrance of a private driveway. The north/south roadway was a 2-lane undivided roadway. The private driveway was on the east side of this intersection and was a 2-lane undivided driveway with 1 lane in each direction. The north/south roadway was straight and level with a posted speed of 64 kmph (40 mph).* This crash occurred on a weekday night. The road was wet as it was lightly raining at the time of the crash. The road was poorly lit and visibility was reduced. There was very little traffic on the roadway.

V1, a 2000 Dodge Dakota pickup, was traveling southbound in lane 1 intending on making a left turn into the private driveway. V2, 2001 Ford Escape Sport Utility Vehicle, was traveling northbound in lane 1 intending to continue to go straight. V1 slowed down in anticipation of turning and looked to see if the road was clear before stopping for one second and then proceeding to turn into the private driveway. After V1 began the turn, its driver finally saw V2 approaching from the opposite direction. The driver of V1 applied his brakes but could not avoid colliding with the front left corner of V2. The driver of V2 reported seeing V1 stop before making the turn into the private driveway. V2 hit the brakes and steered to the right to try to avoid the collision but was unsuccessful. The two vehicles came to final rest at their point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 33-year old male. No injuries were reported in this vehicle. The driver was on vacation and was from out-of-state. The driver and his family had been staying in the same place for the past 4 days and had been driving on this roadway each day. The driver claimed that when he slowed down to make the turn into the private driveway, he did not see V2 coming and that is why he believed it was safe to turn. After the accident, the driver told the police that he did not believe that V2 had its headlights on or he would have seen the vehicle coming and would not have made the turn. Police investigation determined that V2's lights were on and operational.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a recognition error- inadequate surveillance. The driver of V1 did believe that the way was clear to successfully make the turn although the intersection was not clear. The driver firmly believed that V2 did not have its lights on. The roadway was poorly lit and the fact that it was raining would have made it difficult to see V2. Associated factors coded to this driver include unfamiliarity with the roadway, the rain, and the wet roadway.

V2 was driven by a 24-year old female. All of the passengers with the exception of a young child in a child seat reported "C" injuries and were transported to the hospital to be treated. The young child was transported to the hospital for observation only. This driver was continuing down the roadway and saw V1 stop with its turn signal on. V2 proceeded since this driver had the right of way. As V2 got closer to the intersection, V1 began to turn. V2 braked and steered to the right but was unsuccessful in avoiding the collision.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction, over the left line." The Critical Reason was not coded for this vehicle. Associated factors coded to this driver include a history of bipolar affective disorder that was kept under control by taking prescription medications, the rain, and the wet roadway.

*The PAR lists the speed limit as 35 MPH. A re-investigation by the researcher determined that the crash occurred in a 40 MPH zone. Prior to the intersection, the posted speed for V1 went from 35 MPH to 40 MPH. For V2, the posted speed dropped from 45 MPH to 40 MPH.