This three-vehicle crash occurred at an intersection controlled by traffic control signals. There are right hand turn lanes in all directions of travel. For westbound traffic there are four travel lanes including a left turn lane on approach to the intersection. For southbound traffic, there are three travel lanes including a left turn lane. The westbound direction has a downgrade of 6 percent with a posted speed on 64 kmph (40 mph). The north/south roadway is level with a posted speed of 40 kmph (25 mph). All control lights were working properly with good visibility and no obvious road defects. The crash occurred in mid morning with moderate traffic flow.

Vehicle three (V3), a 2001 Chevrolet Tahoe with one occupant, was southbound and stopped in the left turn lane waiting for traffic to clear to turn left in the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), 1982 Chevrolet pickup with two occupants, was northbound crossing thru the intersection. Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Ford Ranger pickup with one occupant, was westbound in lane three and entered the intersection as V2 was crossing the intersection. The front of V1 struck the right side of V2. Both vehicles moved together in a northwesterly direction where the left side of V2 struck the front of V3. The three vehicles came to rest at the impact point. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene; V3 was driven. None of the occupants were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.

A 73 year-old male operated V1. He claimed to be in good health and had been on the road since early in the morning. He drives this road regularly and is familiar with the vehicle. He stated he had fallen asleep for a split second before the crash and could not remember the events prior to the crash. He could not remember seeing the stoplight nor remembering V2 crossing thru this intersection. The driver entered the intersection against the red traffic control signal. The driver stated that he takes 4 medications daily and does not suffer from sleep apnea. He sleeps 7 hrs daily and works a 40-hour week. He does not work weekends and has worked one day since his last day off. He works from 0330 hours to noon daily. On this day he had driven 418 kilometers (260 miles) and was about 161 kilometers (100 miles) from home. He stated that he felt okay but was beginning to get a little sleepy. Because his vehicle was carrying medical supplies it was towed directly to his work place 161 kilometers (100 miles) away. The pre-crash critical event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling- crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason was coded as a driver related factor: sleeping, that is, actually asleep. Because the driver fell asleep at the time of the crash, fatigue was considered a factor for him.

A 37 year-old male drove V2. He stated that he did not see V1 enter the intersection and only felt the impact. He was on his way home from a landfill. He was in conversation with the 12 year-old passenger. He stated that he is not employed and was not in any hurry. He is in good health other than having a back problem that does not effect his driving. The driver did not complain of injury but the 12 year-old female passenger did hit her head on the passenger door glass. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment-from crossing street, across path. A critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle. The driver failed to detect V1 prior to the impact.

A 48 year-old male drove V3. The driver was waiting for oncoming traffic to clear the intersection to turn left. The vehicle was stopped at impact. The driver was enroute to a vehicle maintenance shop after being on patrol. He drives the route weekly and is familiar with the vehicle. The vehicle was not involved in the first harmful event and a critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle.