This crash occurred in the late afternoon of a weekday in the middle of a four-way residential intersection. The intersection consisted of a north/south three-lane roadway (one lane in each direction with a center left turn lane) and an east/west four-lane roadway controlled by a properly functioning traffic signal. The inside lanes of the east/west roadway were bituminous while the outside lanes were concrete. The roadway was dry, straight, and level with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The bituminous north/south roadway was dry, straight, and level and also featured a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 2003 Chevrolet Impala, was stopped facing north at the intersection waiting to cross over. V2, a 2006 Dodge Ram was westbound in lane two approaching the same intersection where it also intended to go straight. As a non-contact vehicle heading west cleared the intersection V1 entered the intersection against the red light. As V1 continued through the intersection she was struck on the right side by the front of V1 as it came across the intersection. The force of impact caused her vehicle to rotate slightly counter-clockwise before coming to final rest facing northwest in the southbound lanes of travel. V2 came to final rest facing north in the northbound lanes of travel. V1 was towed due to damage while V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 55-year-old female, in good health was wearing her prescription lenses for a myopic (near sighted) condition. She had just left a friends home she was visiting and was traveling north on the roadway. All of the intersections prior to this one had been controlled by stop sign and she thought this was no different. She stated that she entered the intersection when believe it was her turn. She did not see the traffic light. She suffered non-incapacitating injuries as a result of the crash but was not transported for treatment.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as inattention as the driver was not focused on the driving task. Associated factors coded to this vehicle include inadequate surveillance, a false assumption and failure to obey a traffic control device. The driver also stated that she has not been sleeping well at night so she may have been fatigued.

The driver of V2, a 24-year-old male, in good health was traveling west to his place of work to fill his vehicle with gas. He stated that as he approached the intersection he noted the light was green and continued along at a steady speed. As he entered the intersection a vehicle to the right (V1) pulled into the intersection as if she had a green light. He braked and steed right to try and avoid V2 but could not. He stated after contact his vehicle rotated clockwise to face in a north direction for final rest. He stated after the police officer arrived the officer asked him to pull his vehicle to the side of the roadway if it was drivable.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factor coded to V2 was a false assumption as the driver assumed the other vehicles would yield the right of way.

Witness #1 stated she was traveling north on the roadway. She also stated the traffic light was red as she pulled up behind V1. She stated as the first westbound vehicle passed through the intersection V1 entered the intersection against the red light. She stated V2 braked but could not avoid V1.

Witness #2 stated he was traveling west about 25m behind V2. He saw V1 start across the intersection. He stated his lane of travel had a green light. He saw brake lights on V2 and watched it steer right but it could not avoid V1.