This two-vehicle crash occurred at early morning hours in a driveway area on a five-lane, undivided, east/west, straight, level, dry roadway. There is a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection just west of the driveway. Both directions consist of two through lanes and a left-turn lane at the intersection. Road surface dry,level asphalt. The speed limit for this roadway is 56 kph (35 mph). This crash took place during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions present.

Vehicle one, a 2006 Toyota Corolla, was westbound in lane two, with the intention of moving into the turn lane to facilitate turning left into a coffee shop driveway that was located just before the intersection. Vehicle two, a 2002 Honda Civic, was eastbound in lane two, intending to continue straight after passing through the intersection. There was a large truck stopped westbound in the left-turn lane at the intersection. Vehicle one changed lanes to the left and then attempted to turn left into the driveway. The front of vehicle one struck the front of vehicle two. Vehicle one rotated counterclockwise and came to rest facing southwest partially in the number two westbound lane. Vehicle two rotated slightly clockwise and came to rest in the westbound lanes facing southeast. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Vehicle one driver, a thirty-three-year-old female, was commuting from home to her job in another city. She was familiar with her route and her vehicle and the only medication she takes is Phentramine, an appetite suppressant. She had been awake for almost two hours, but stated that she "needed her coffee." This driver is near-sighted but was not wearing corrective lenses at the time of the crash. She was focused on first getting in to the turn lane and then on her travel lane into the driveway. She noticed the truck that was in the turn lane, but began to make her turn because she thought the traffic signal at the nearby intersection was red and thinking that there would be no traffic in the eastbound lanes. Vehicle two driver, a forty-six-year-old male, was commuting from home to work. He was well rested and comfortable with his vehicle and route. He did not see vehicle one prior the impact and was not able to attempt any evasive maneuvers. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-event movement for vehicle one was coded turning left, category "this vehicle traveling: turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as "driver related factor; "inadequate surveillance" (turned left without ensuring there was no oncoming traffic."

The critical pre-event movement for vehicle two was coded as going straight, category "other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event "not coded to this vehicle."