This two-vehicle crash occurred in the early afternoon hours on an overcast weekday. The location was an interchange intersection inter-city with continuous heavy traffic. The intersection has six legs and is controlled by functioning overhead signals and crosswalks. The weather was cloudy, but clear with no rain. The roadway was dry bituminous. The posted speed limit is 48 kmph, or 30 mph.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1993 Ford F150 4x2 pickup, was traveling southbound exiting the freeway from a three lane, one-way roadway. Traffic control for V1 was right-turn only to head westbound from all three lanes. V1 was in the left #3 travel lane, entered the intersection and turned left to head southbound against the green arrow that directed his lane of travel to head westbound only. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Mazda 626 four door sedan, was traveling eastbound on a six-lane divided arterial in the #1 curb travel lane. Traffic control for this lane is right-turn only to head southbound; or, right-turn onto the on-ramp leg at the southeast corner of the intersection. Based on the location of the crash the driver of V2 was intending to take the on-ramp at the southeast leg of the intersection. As V2 traveled straight through the intersection it was impacted on the front plane near the left corner with the front plane of V1 as it turned left to head southbound. On impact both vehicles rotated, side-slapped and then came to rest just north of the south crosswalk in the northbound travel lanes. Both vehicles were towed due to damage.

The researcher did not obtain the police report until more than 4 months after the crash date, which hampered the researchers ability to collect data for this crash. No interviews were obtained with either driver, nor were any medical records obtainable. The majority of the information for this crash comes from the police report and inspection of V2. According to the Police report both drivers were wearing a lap & shoulder belt. The driver of V1 was not injured. The driver of V2 complained of pain and was transported to a non-cooperative medical facility for treatment.

The driver of V2 was a 22-year-old female who was not drug tested. There were no contributing factors assigned to this driver on the police report. The vehicle inspection of V2 did not reveal any vehicle related factors. According to a witness statement on the police report the driver of V2 did have a green light as she proceeded straight through the intersection. The driver stated to police that she did not see V1 prior to impact. The critical precrash event for V2 was: other vehicle encroachment/ from opposite direction- over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not assigned to V2

The driver of V1, a 29-year-old male, was not drug tested but was driving on a suspended license. The driver of V1 failed to comply with proper lane travel, made an illegal left turn on a green arrow and crossed the intended path of V2. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was: this vehicle traveling/turning left at intersection. The driver of V1 stated in the police report he was familiar with the intersection and he had been traveling through the same way for years, making the illegal left turn at the intersection. The police report indicated V1 made an improper left turn as a contributing circumstance for the collision. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to the driver of V1 as a driver decision error: illegal maneuver.