A two-vehicle mid-day collision occurred at the intersection of a side street and a city street. The side street, which runs east/west, consists of two lanes of two-way travel and the city street consists of four lanes of travel. Both roadways are straight and level. The surface of the side street is asphalt while the cross street is concrete. Traffic entering the intersection from the side street is controlled by stop signs. The speed limit is 56 Kmph (35 mph) for both roadways. At the time of the crash the sky was clear and there were no adverse conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1990 Toyota Camry with only a driver was stopped for a stop sign at the intersection facing west. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Saturn SL1 with only a driver was headed south on the city street in lane one. V1 entered the intersection from a stop at the same time as V2. The front of V1 struck the left front quarter panel of V2. V2 was deflected to the southwest corner of the intersection where it mounted a curb before the front of the vehicle struck a tree where the vehicle came to rest facing south. V1 came to rest at the impact point. V2 was towed due to disabling damage and V1 drove from the scene. Neither driver was injured as a result of the collision. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 35-year-old male who refused to be interviewed for the study. The driver admitted to the investigating officer he was at fault and did not see V2 prior to entering the intersection from a stopped position. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: This Vehicle Traveling crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event is coded as Driver Related Factor- Inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

The driver of V2 was a 52-year old female. She stated that she was casually driving up the road. She did see V1 prior to the crash and tried to avoid the collision by braking and steering right but was unable to prevent a collision. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: Other Vehicle Encroachment: from crossing street across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.