This is a three-vehicle, rear end crash that occurred during morning daylight hours on an urban, four lane, bituminous roadway in a section with a 2% upgrade and no traffic controls. There were two eastbound and two westbound traffic lanes divided by double yellow lines. The three vehicles were all in the number two eastbound traffic lane. The number one lane had been closed due to an earlier produce spillage. The posted speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph). The weather was clear and calm.

Vehicle one (V1) a 1997 Mazda Millenia four-door sedan. driven by a 20 year-old female with one passenger the driver stated that she was traveling she observed traffic ahead and that the sun glare was in her eyes. Vehicle two (V2) a 1996 Honda Accord LX 4 door sedan driven by a 29 year-old female with one passenger was traveling east in the number two lane. Vehicle three (V3) a 1995 Chevrolet S-10 Extended Cab pickup truck was driven by a 21 year-old male was traveling east in the number two lane and stopped for traffic ahead. V1's front contacted the rear of V2 causing V2 forward into the rear of V3. V2 was towed from the scene due to damage. V1 and V3 were driven from scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 37 kmph for V1 and 37 kmph for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: too fast to respond to unexpected actions of others (specified as: Forward traffic was congested due to lane one closure.). The driver of V1 was commuting from home to her baby sitters to drop off her daughter, a 17-month old passenger. The driver indicated no interior or exterior distractions, but did say the morning sun glare obscured her vision a bit even though she was wearing sunglasses at the time. She was well rested and takes no medications.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in the lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.