This three-vehicle crash occurred on an undivided, straight roadway. The westbound lanes consist of one through lane and a right turn lane and have a 5% downhill grade. There are two three-legged intersections in the crash area; the first is on the right and the second is on the left. The speed limit on this roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours and it was raining.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Dodge Ram pickup, was westbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Chevrolet Venture, was westbound in front of V1 and vehicle three (V3), was westbound in front of V2. A non-contact vehicle stopped to turn left at the second intersection. V3 slowed behind this vehicle. V2 traveled partially into lane one. The front of V1 struck the back left corner of V2. V1 continue westbound and the front struck the back of V3. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a seventeen-year-old female, was traveling from her home to pick up a friend to go shopping. She was well rested and healthy. This driver stated that she did not feel comfortable driving this vehicle. She also stated that she was thinking about shopping while she was driving. She further stated that when she noticed V1 and V2 slowing, she applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The driver of V2, a thirty-nine-year-old female, was traveling with four young children, from one store to another store. She was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle as well as her passengers. This driver travels this route daily. She stated that she realized that she could not stop for V3 so she steered right and applied the brakes.

The driver of V3, a fifty-eight-year-old female, was traveling with her two sisters, from her home to a restaurant for lunch. This driver was well rested and in fairly good health. She was comfortable with her vehicle and passengers and travels this route daily.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: following too closely to respond to unexpected actions. This driver's inexperience was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.