This two-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours on a weekend. The crash occurred on a straight stretch of a five-lane, dry, level, positively divided, concrete expressway, on approach to an exit ramp. The speed limit in the area of the crash was 105 kmph (65 mph). At the time of the crash, there were no adverse atmospheric conditions, and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Acura Integra two-door coupe, was traveling westbound in the second lane, and intending to change lanes into the first lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Acura 2.2 CL two-door coupe, was traveling westbound ahead of V1 in the first lane. As V1 changed lanes to the right, V2 decelerated for slower traffic ahead. The front of V1 impacted the back of V2. Both vehicles moved ahead and came to rest in the first lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 18-year-old male driver of V1 reported that he was following another vehicle that changed to lane one a few car lengths ahead, and he needed to change to take the exit. V1 was on the way to a basketball game, and the driver and two passengers were engaged in conversation about the game and also about the music that was playing over the radio. The driver also reported that he wears contact lenses for near-sightedness, but was not wearing them at the time of the crash. The driver's primary attention was focused on his side-view mirror, tracking other vehicles in the first lane. He accelerated into a gap and, when he looked forward, he saw V2 and realized that it was slowing in front of him. He engaged the brakes and skidded forward into the impact. V1 was equipped with low-profile wheels and tires. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was: other vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded as a driver related recognition error: external distraction.

The 23-year-old male driver of V2 reported that he saw V1 change lanes in his rear-view mirror as V2 was decelerating. The driver of V2 was unable to take any evasive action. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was: other vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.