The crash occurred on a two lane undivided roadway with a posted speed limit of 30 MPH (48 KPH). The roadway had the profile of an "S" curve beginning with a curve to the left which had a radius of curvature of 141 meters and superelevation of 0% in the eastbound lane and 4.1% in the westbound lane. There was a -2.3% grade prior to a small hillcrest on the left-hand curve. Then the roadway curved to the right with a radius of curvature of 282 meters and a superelevation of 2%. The weather was clear, the roadway dry and it was daylight at the time of this weekday afternoon crash.

Vehicle 1, a 2000 Ford Windstar, was traveling east on the roadway approaching the hillcrest on the left hand curve. Vehicle 1 drove off the right side of the roadway in an attempt to avoid on oncoming vehicle. Operator Vehicle 1 braked and corrected to the left crossing into westbound lane. Operator then corrected to the right, back to the left and began to rotate counterclockwise. Vehicle 1 went off the left side of the roadway, struck an earth embankment, spun and rolled over two quarter turns to the right coming to rest on its roof facing south. Vehicle 1 was towed due to damage. Police did not consider either alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no tests. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1.

The Ford Windstar (Vehicle 1) was driven by a belted 17-year-old male who had no injuries. The belted 15-year-old female right front passenger was transported, treated and released for minor bleeding to the back. The left second seat belted 15-year-old female was transported, treated and released for minor bleeding to the elbow. The right second seat belted 17-year-old male had no injuries. The driver stated that he was coming from a friend's house only a few miles up the road and going to his house. They had all been conversing as they were going down the road. The driver stated that as he approached the hillcrest another vehicle was in his lane. He stated he drove off the right side of the roadway to avoid a collision. He braked and corrected to the left, then right and the vehicle began to skid. He corrected back to the left and the vehicle went off the road and did a "mix", not quite a roll to one side and landed on its roof. He also stated that he was traveling between 45-50 MPH prior to the crash. He had high school driver education in February and had obtained his license 7 days prior to the crash. He drove the road weekly and was familiar with it. He stated he was in good health, was not fatigued and took no medications of any kind.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle 1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was coded as poor directional control. This was chosen due to the driver's inexperience. Additional factors coded to this driver were traveling to fast for conditions since he stated he was doing 45-50 MPH on a roadway posted 30 MPH, aggressive driving for speeding when he indicated that he knew the road and drove at that speed and inadequate/incorrect evasive action when he stated that he braked and steered too hard to straighten the vehicle out.