This two-vehicle collision occurred during light rain on a weekend afternoon. The crash occurred at the intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway. The speed limit in 56 kmph (35 mph) in all directions, and both roadways are five-lane, two-way, bituminous roads. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light traffic signal. The roadway in the area of the crash was free of defects, and the road surface was wet from light rain. Along the northeast curb, the remains of a previous single-vehicle collision were visible from the intersection.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound in the third (left turn only) lane, and was approaching the intersection with the intention of turning left. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was traveling westbound in the first lane, approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. As V1 entered the intersection on the green phase of the tri-light, the driver saw an ambulance along the northwest curb-line with emergency flashers activated. The ambulance was attending the previous collision. The presence of the ambulance confused the driver of V1, and she executed a left turn as V2 entered the intersection. The front of V2 impacted the right side of V1. Both vehicles deflected northwest to final rest in the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 77-year-old female driver of V1 reported that she did not know what to do upon seeing the ambulance, and thought she had to clear the intersection in order to yield to it. She also reported that she takes care of her husband who had hip surgery several weeks ago. She stated that being his caretaker has caused both fatigue and stress in her life, and she is driving more than normal because of his needs. She has a myopic condition and was wearing prescription sunglasses. She takes vitamins for her health. The driver did not have the wipers on because the rain was very light. The driver of V1 reported that she did not see V2 before making a left turn. She applied the brakes at the last second, but could not avoid the collision. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded as a driver related recognition factor: external distraction.

The 59-year-old male driver of V2 reported that he was traveling to his sister's home from his residence. The driver was listening to the radio as he traveled. He has high blood pressure, and takes Prinivil and thyroid medication. He is both near-sighted and far-sighted, and was wearing eyeglasses at the time of the collision. He has 19-years of driving experience, but no formal training. The driver did not have his wipers on because the rain was extremely light. The driver stated that as he approached the intersection he saw a large truck make a left turn across his path. V1 was behind the large truck, and the driver of V2 could not see V1 until he was in the intersection. When he realized that V1 was turning, he applied the brakes, but was unable to avoid the collision. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.