This two-vehicle crash occurred at a three-leg intersection that joins with a private driveway to make it a four-leg intersection. The north- and southbound lanes entering into the intersection each consist of a right-turn-only lane, two through lanes, and a left-turn-only lane. The east-west roadway consists of one westbound lane and two eastbound lanes; one is a right-turn and through lane and the other is a left-turn-only lane. These roadways are all straight, level and bituminous with the north-south roadway having a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph) and the east-west roadway having a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). There were no traffic control devices at the intersection. It was early afternoon on a weekday; the road was dry and the sky was clear. The traffic flow was moderate.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Buick Century with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane four, the left turn lane with the intention of making a left turn. Vehicle two (V2), a 2007 Toyota Yaris with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane three. A non-contact SUV was stopped in the southbound left turn lane also waiting to make a left turn. V1 attempted a left turn to go westbound, and the driver of V2 locked the brakes to avoid a collision, but the front of V2 struck the left side of V1. Both vehicles were driven to a final rest out of harm's way. V2 was facing southbound, still in lane three, and V1 was facing westbound in lane one of the east-west roadway. V1 was not towed from the scene. V2 was towed due to moderate front-end damage. Neither occupant was injured Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

A 52-year old female drove V1. She advised that she was a courier making a delivery to a nearby address. She said that she was stopped in the left turn lane with an SUV stopped in the opposing left turn lane. She couldn't see the traffic headed southbound completely, but was able to see that the traffic light a block away was red and thought there were no more cars coming. She then proceeded to turn left and that's when she saw V2. She reported putting on the brakes, but was too far out in the lane. She is familiar with the vehicle and drives the route weekly. She stated that she wasn't in a hurry, but her delivery did have a schedule. She said she got seven hours of sleep the night before, her normal sleep time, and she woke up feeling rested. She takes vitamins and normally works an 8-hour day.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded to V1 as: other decision error (specified as: turned with obstructed view). The SUV in the southbound left turn lane partially obstructed the driver's view of oncoming traffic.

A 73-year old female drove V2. She said she saw a car making a left-hand turn in front of her and stepped on the brakes, but couldn't stop in time. She is mostly retired and works an average of ten hours a week selling a beauty product. She normally sleeps 6 ½ hours a night, but slept 8 ½ hours the night before the collision. In the preceding 24 hours, the only medication she had taken was Naprosyn for her arthritis.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction, over the left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle.