This two-vehicle collision occurred on a weekday evening, after dark. Streetlamps illuminated the scene at the time. The collision occurred at a four-leg intersection. The north/south roadway has five lanes including a left turn pocket. The roadway is dry, level and made of asphalt. The roadway is designated 56 kmph (35 mph). The intersection is controlled by a tri-light signal, which was working properly at the time. There were no adverse weather conditions and the roadway was free of defects in the area of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, was traveling southbound in the third lane, approaching the intersection with the intention of turning left. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Geo Prizm 4-door sedan, was traveling northbound in the number two lane, approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. As V1 made its turn, the front of V1 impacted the front of V2. Both vehicles deflected north to final rest in the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 17-year-old female driver of V1 could not be interviewed. She reported to police that she was stopped just past the entrance of the intersection, and was waiting to turn left. She reported that the traffic signal turned from yellow to red, and she thought that V1 would stop and allow her to proceed. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related decision error, false assumption of other's actions.

The 23-year-old male driver of V2 reported that he learned to drive in Japan. He was wearing his contact lenses, and has a corrective lenses restriction on his license. He was on his way to a park with his two puppies in the passenger seat at the time of the crash. He reported that he saw V1 stopped in the intersection waiting to turn. He said that he entered the intersection as the tri-light changed from green to yellow. He does not know what happened after that, and he took no evasive actions. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.