This two-vehicle collision occurred at the intersection of an interstate off-ramp and an arterial surface street. The off-ramp has three lanes, with a lane three being left turn only, and a downhill grade of -4% just before intersecting the street. The off-ram also curves to the left. The street is an east-west arterial street with a -3% downhill grade and passes under the interstate just east of the intersection. Both roads are paved with asphalt, and were wet at the time of the crash. The speed limit for arterial streets is 48 kmph (30 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with rain.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1985 Chevrolet S-10 pickup, was southbound in the left turn lane of the interstate off-ramp. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Dodge Stratus sedan, was westbound in the second lane. The front of V1 impacted the front of V2. V1 left the scene and was found ten blocks away. V2 spun and came to rest in the eastbound lanes. V1 was not towed due to damage. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 is an unknown hit-and-run driver. There is no known pre-crash information on this driver. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: type of driver error unknown.

The driver of V2, a thirty-seven year old male, was heading from the airport to a football game. This driver had been driving for about thirty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that he had the green light, and the police report verifies this. This driver gave a partial interview and indicated that he was late for kick off. It is unknown how often he drives this vehicle or over this road, but this driver is from out of town.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.