This two-vehicle rollover collision occurred during daylight hours on a weekday. The crash occurred in an interchange area on a four-lane, positively divided, curved left, concrete expressway. The four-lane freeway merges with two additional lanes in the area of the crash, and the leftward curvature straightens as the roadways merge. The speed limit on the expressway is 105 kmph (65 mph), and the left-most lane is reserved for high occupancy vehicles. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse atmospheric conditions and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Toyota Camry sedan, was traveling southbound in the second lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1989 Nissan 240 SX 2-door hatchback, was traveling southbound in the fourth lane, slightly ahead of V1. As the roadways merged, V1 changed lanes to the left, and V2 attempted to change lanes to the right. As V2 entered the third lane, the left side of V1 impacted the right side of V2. V1 lost control and veered left, where it impacted the concrete median barrier with its front plane. V1 rotated counter-clockwise away from the barrier and rolled four quarter-turns towards its right. V1 came to rest on its wheels, facing northwest in the roadway. V2 lost control after impact and moved left, where the front of V2 impacted the concrete barrier. V2 rotated clockwise and struck the barrier again with its left side. V2 came to rest in the HOV lane, very near the barrier, facing south. Two witnesses to the crash reported that V1 and V2 both appeared to be traveling over the speed limit and their descriptions of both drivers' behavior are consistent with a road-rage incident. Neither driver was forthcoming about the reasons for their aggressive driving behavior. Both drivers claimed the other driver was approaching from the rear and they were overtaking them. Per witnesses both drivers were speeding and engaged in a high-speed contest involving rapid & frequent lane changes with V2 honking its horn. Both independent witnesses estimate both vehicles traveling well above 113 kmph (70 mph) and V2 was being the more aggressive of the two vehicles. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The 61-year-old male driver of V1 reported that he needs hearing aids in both ears, and requires glasses for myopia. He was wearing his hearing aids and glasses at the time of the crash. He was traveling with a passenger, his wife, on the way to a doctor visit, but reported no activity in the vehicle. His wife, and passenger, stated that she was asleep and saw nothing. He takes the medications Synthroid and an unknown medication for enlarged prostrate.. He stated that V2 was behind him, and that he thinks V2 impacted the barrier and then impacted his vehicle. He stated during the interview that his precrash speed was greater than 113 kmph (70 mph), and he was in the far right (#1) travel lane. He also told the NASS researcher he was an experienced driver who raced motorcycles and go-carts for 40 years.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from adjacent lane (same direction) over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle; however, associative factors of aggressive driving were coded.

The sole occupant of V2 was its 22-year-old driver who was on his way to work. He stated during the interview that his precrash speed was greater than 113 kmph (70 mph) and he admitted to driving in the far left HOV lane reserved for car pools. Prior to the crash he did not make any avoidance actions. He stated that a cell phone was present in the vehicle but he was not using it. He has asthma but takes no medication for it.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the right side of travel lane. The critical reason for the Critical Event was attributed to the driver of V2 as a driver decision error: aggressive driving behavior. This was selected based on his behavior towards other traffic, his speed, and his illegal use of the HOV lane. Witnesses stated the driver of V2 was honking his horn and veered toward a witness vehicle and also V1 in an aggressive manner.