This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged intersection. Both roadways are straight and consist of one lane in each direction. The north/south roadway is level. The eastbound approach is controlled by a stop sign and has a 5% downhill grade. The speed limit on these roadways is 40 kmph (25 mph). It was dark with streetlights on at the time of the crash and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Buick Regal, was southbound in lane one, stopped for the stop sign. Vehicle two (V2), a 1991 Buick Century, was eastbound in lane one. V1 entered the intersection and the front of V2 struck the left side of V1. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a seventy-year-old male, was traveling with a sixty-nine-year-old female. They had taken his mother back to the nursing home and were on their way to the grocery store before going home. He was well rested and comfortable with his vehicle and passenger. He has high blood pressure and takes the medications HCTZ and Clonidine. This driver travels this roadway rarely. They normally take a different route, which has four-way stops at the intersections. This driver stated that he thought that V2 had a stop sign.

The driver of V2, a thirty-three-year-old female, was traveling with her three-year-old son who was in the back seat. She was comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. She drives this route daily. This driver stated that she is bipolar, has had manic depression and takes the medications Lamictal, Ativan, Clonazepam, Trazodone, Seroquel, Buspar and Campral. This driver had worked sixteen hours per day for the past four days. She had gotten her normal five hours of sleep and had been awake for fourteen hours. This driver noticed V1 entering the intersection and applied the brakes, but skidded and was unable to avoid a collision.

The pre-event movement for V1 was coded as "stopped in traffic lane." The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; false assumption of other's actions." Failure to look to either side ahead was an associated factor.

The pre-event movement for V2 was coded as "going straight." The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle." Fatigue was an associated factor.