This three-vehicle collision occurred in lane one of a two-lane access controlled highway heading west. The road has two lanes of regular travel paved with concrete and is straight and level in the area of the crash. The crash occurred just as an on-ramp merges into lane one. The speed limit for the road is 80 kmph (50 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1985 Toyota pickup was westbound in the first lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Lexus ES300 was westbound in the first lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 1992 BMW 525i was westbound in the first lane. All vehicles were traveling with the flow of traffic when traffic came to a stop in front of V3. V3 slowed to a stop, and V2 slowed to a stop behind V3. V1 was not able to come to a stop in time and the front of V1 impacted the rear of V2. V2 then impacted the rear of V3. All vehicles were towed although V2 and V3 were not disabled. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a fifty-year-old male was on his way to the boat store on an errand. The driver of V1 stated that he was looking at the boats to the right of the highway when traffic slowed in front of him. When he looked forward, he hit the brakes but was unable to stop in time. This driver had only been driving for a few minutes at the time of the crash. This driver drives this vehicle several times a month and over this road daily.

The driver of V2, a thirty-seven year old female, was unable to be reached for an interview.

The driver of V3, a forty-nine year old female, was on her way to the cemetery. It is unknown how long this driver had been driving. This driver indicated that she was on the phone with a friend. It is unknown how often this driver drives this vehicle or how often over this roadway.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: external distraction.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.