The crash occurred in the westbound lanes of a six-lane roadway divided by a grass median. There were three westbound and three eastbound lanes. The roadway was straight and level. The posted speed limit was 56kph (35 mph). The conditions were dry and clear on a weekday night.

Vehicle #2 a 2004 Chevy Cavalier was traveling in lane three. V2 had the green light as he approached the intersection when V1 a 1994 Jeep Cherokee was pulling out of the gas station attempting to make u-turn across three lanes of traffic. As V1 pulled into the roadway across lanes one and two, V2 had the green light and did not see V1 pulling across his lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Jeep Cherokee, was driven by a 40-year-old male who stated that he was trying to pull out of the gas station to make a u-turn when he got into the middle of the intersection he was hit by V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling this vehicle traveling making a U-turn". The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was "driver related factor illegal maneuver". The driver was not injured and the jeep was towed due to damages. The driver was cited a ticket for causing a crash, improper lane change.

V2, the Chevy Cavalier, was driven by a 25-year-old male who stated he was driving in lane 3 going the speed limit when he approached the intersection. Out of the blue he saw V1 attempting to make a u-turn and he was unable to stop without hitting V1.

The Critical Precarsh Event for V2, was "other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane over right lane line". The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle, as he was not thought to have contributed to the crash. The driver was not injured and the vehicle was towed due to damages. The driver of V2 was legally deaf and was wearing a hearing aid. This was an associative factor related to the driver. Although, the driver stated in the interview that this did not affect his driving maybe he would have noticed V1 pull out of the gas station if he speed out or other driver beeped there horns or if there were any sounds warning the driver of V2 that he needed to take caution.