This crash occurred in the morning of a weekday in the eastbound lanes of a fully controlled, rural, divided highway. The eastbound highway featured two bituminous, dry, straight, and level lanes with a posted speed limit of 113kmph (70 mph). Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight, but cloudy. Traffic conditions were normal.

V1, a 1994 Ford Econoline150 van, was eastbound in lane one traveling at 104kmph (65 mph). As V1 continued east, the right rear wheel came off of the vehicle. The driver felt the back right of the vehicle drop down, and the van began to rotate counter-clockwise. V1 crossed into the left lane, over the left paved shoulder and across the rumble strip before departing the roadway. The right hub caught in the soft soil in the grassy median causing V1 to roll left two-quarter turns. V1 rolled 11 meters from the trip point and came to final rest on its top facing southeast. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage Police Reported Travel Speed is 113 kmph for V1.

V1 was driven by a 28 year-old female who was on her way to complete a financial transaction. She stated that she was just driving along when she heard a noise and felt the back right corner sag, she than realized the wheel and come off. The driver and front right adult male passenger were fully restrained and the two children in row two were restrained in child safety seats. There were no reported injuries and none of the occupants required transport.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded was as a vehicle related factor, the tires/wheels failed due to the lug nut separation, which caused the right rear wheel to come off of the vehicle. Associated factors were coded for the driver's limited experience with V1, which she purchased the week prior to the crash, but had driven 10 times. The driver had only been driving for one year and was on the road where the crash occurred for the first time.