This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-leg intersection. Both roadways are two-lane (one lane in each direction), straight and level. The north/south traffic is controlled by stop signs. The speed limit for both roadways is 40 kmph (25 mph). There are several trees and shrubbery on the southeast corner of this intersection. The tree limbs partially obscure the stop sign for northbound traffic. These trees, as well as a slightly elevated yard, restrict the sightline between northbound and westbound traffic. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Buick Regal, was northbound, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Cadillac Deville, was westbound, approaching the same intersection. As V1 approached the intersection, the driver reached down to adjust the radio and did not notice V2. The driver of V1 observed V2 at the last minute and steered left and applied the brakes. The front of V1 struck the left side of V2. The vehicles rotated and the right side of V1 struck the left side of V2. V2 then traveled to the northwest off the roadway and the front struck a chain-link fence before coming to rest facing northwest. V1 rotated counterclockwise, traveled to the southwest and came to rest facing south/southwest after the front struck a chain-link fence. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-eight-year-old female, was running an errand and was on her way home. She was very familiar with her vehicle but drives on this roadway only rarely. She stated that she takes Amitriptyline for depression. She stated that although she is fairly healthy and has no particular concerns in her life, she slept only six hours the previous night (rather than her normal eight hours) and felt tired all day.

The driver of V2, a forty-six-year-old male, was traveling from a relative's home to his home. He claimed to be well rested and was very comfortable with his vehicle and his route. This driver stated to the police officer that he had a head cold, had been taking cough drops and had been drinking the night before until 03:00 o'clock in the morning.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded not coded to this vehicle.