This two-vehicle crash occurred in the evening of a weekend in the middle of a four-way urban intersection. The intersection consisted of an east/west two-lane roadway and a north/south two-lane roadway controlled by visible stop signs in each direction. Curbside parking was permitted on the right side only of all travel lanes. The bituminous roadways were dry, straight and level with a posted speed limit of 32 kmph (20 mph) in all directions. The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1993 Buick Lesabre 4-door sedan, was northbound in lane one approaching the intersection where it intended to go straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 Acura Legend 4-door sedan, was stopped westbound at the intersection. V1 failed to stop for the stop sign and its front struck the left side of V2 as it crossed the intersection. After the initial impact V2 rotated clockwise and side-slapped V1. V1 continued forward and departed the roadway over the northwest corner and struck the stop sign, located on the curb edge. V1 then struck (with its left side) a concrete wall of a building and scraped against it for several meters before coming to final rest on top the curb against the wall. V2, after the side-slap continued rotating until it came to final rest facing southeast in the southbound lane. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 20-year old male, could not be reached for comment. However, according to a witnessing police officer, V1 was traveling northbound through the intersection at a high rate of speed, approximately 72 kmph (45 mph), disregarded the stop sign and contacted vehicle two which was traveling approximately 8 kmph (5 mph) in the middle of the intersection. Several witnesses at the scene said police were in pursuit of V1 before the crash. Police questioned on scene would not comment regarding pursuit. The driver of V1 was given the following citations: driving without a current valid driver's license, driving without insurance, driving without a valid driver's license while causing injury or death, displaying a card or plate on a vehicle for which it was not issued. The driver of vehicle was not injured and was arrested a few blocks away from the crash scene after police pursuit and is currently incarcerated.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) the intersection. The Critical Reason coded to this vehicle was an unknown decision error. Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle include aggressive driving, speeding, and failure to obey a traffic control device.

The driver of V2, a 19-year old female, refused the interview and chose not to take part in this study. She was transported by EMS to the hospital with non-incapacitating injuries (bleeding from the head and neck as well as back pain). She was present on scene at the researchers arrival being attended to by medics.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other motor vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no known associated factors coded to the driver of V2.