This crash occurred in the westbound lane of a two-lane undivided residential roadway. There was one lane in each direction of the dry asphalt level roadway. There was very slight immeasurable curvature to the roadway. The speed limit was 48 kmph (30 mph). It happened early on a weekday morning. The weather was sunny, clear and dry, and traffic was light.

V1, a 2001 Jeep Cherokee sport utility vehicle, had one occupant and was westbound in lane one. V1 swerved to the right to avoid a collision with an unknown eastbound vehicle that the driver thought was crossing into her lane. She drove off the road to the right and then steered to the left to bring her vehicle back onto the roadway. V1 crossed the double yellow lines and the driver then jerked the wheel hard to the right. This action caused V1 to skid longitudinally to the right and it departed the roadway and struck a drainage ditch and high embankment. V1 came to rest facing northwest, spanning the drainage ditch with the right front bumper against the embankment. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

V1, the Jeep Cherokee, was driven by a 20-year old female who was driving from home to a doctor's appointment but who was not in a hurry. The driver claimed she was driving 48-64 kmph (31-40 mph). She stated that she saw an unknown vehicle heading in the opposite direction and thought that it was going to cross over into her path. When questioned, she said she did not see the other vehicle cross the double yellow line lane markings. The driver said she swerved to the right and then the left across the yellow line and then back to the right to avoid a collision with the other vehicle. When V1 swerved back to the right, the right side wheels went off the edge of the roadway and into a drainage ditch that paralleled the roadway. It then struck the vertical embankment on the opposite side of the ditch. The ditch was about 1.3m deep and 1.2m wide.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of road on the right side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver related error of overcompensation. Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 were: recognition - driver focused on approaching traffic, and the performance errors of overcompensation and poor directional control.