***The partial interview for V1 was given by the driver's attorney. The attorney did not want his client to give a statement and ask that any additional questions that were not answered be sent to him and he would have his client fill them out and return. At the time the case was released, the questionnaire was not returned***

***The interview for V2 was given by the driver's daughter*** Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

This crash occurred in a 4-way controlled intersection. The southbound approach was a 5-lane undivided roadway with three lanes going southbound and two going northbound. The northbound approach was a 5-lane undivided roadway with three lanes going north and two lanes going south. The east/west roadway was a 6-lane undivided roadway. Both roadways were straight, level, and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 80 kmph (50 mph). A traffic light controlled the intersection in all directions. The crash occurred in the early weekday evening and the roads were dry and the sky was clear and dark, but the intersection was well lit. Traffic flow was moderate.

V1, a 2001 Ford Mustang 2-door coupe with one occupant, was traveling north in lane three intending to make a left at the intersection. V2, a 1996 Toyota Tercel 2-door coupe with one occupant, was traveling south in lane one intending to continue straight through the intersection. Both of the vehicles were stopped at the intersection for the red light. When the light turn green both drivers entered the intersection. V1 made a left turn in front of V2. Neither driver was able to avoid the collision and the right front of V1 struck the front of V2. Both vehicles came to final rest in the left turn only lane (lane four) of the westbound approach.

V1, the 2001 Ford Mustang, was driven by a 41-year-old female who reported "C" injuries and was transported to a hospital. V1 was heading north and was in lane 3 intending on making a left at the intersection. A police officer was in lane 1 heading north and witnessed the crash. When the light turned green, the driver of V1 immediately turned left, thinking that there was a left-turn arrow illuminated but the police officer said there was not. The attorney was looking into the possibility of a light malfunction being the cause of the accident but this was not substantiated.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was a false assumption of other actions. The driver of V1 thought that she had the green turn arrow and that oncoming vehicles would have a red light and not be going through the intersection. Without the return of the questionnaire from the driver/attorney, no other associated factors could be coded to this driver.

V2, the 1996 Toyota Tercel, was driven by a 48-year-old female who reported "B" injuries and was transported to a hospital. The driver was heading from her home to her daughter's house to drop something off. Approaching the intersection, she was in lane one traveling south and intending to continue south through the intersection. When she approached the intersection, she stopped for the red light. When the light turned green, she and the cars behind and next to her began to enter the intersection. While she was in the intersection she was struck by V1. She did not see the vehicle coming and did not have any time to avoid the accident.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction - over left lane." No Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. The only associated factor coded to this driver was the use of prescription medication to control diabetes.