This crash occurred in the late evening of weekday in the southbound lanes of a divided north/south roadway near a signal-controlled intersection. The southbound lanes were composed of three lanes and two designated left turn lanes divided from the two northbound lanes by a small concrete median. The bituminous roadway was dry and straight with a slight elevation and a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1967 Lincoln Continental 4-door with two occupants, was southbound moving into lane five, a designated turning lane, from the through traffic lanes. V2, an unknown vehicle, (it had left the scene before this researcher's arrival) was stopped in lane five for the red light at the upcoming intersection. As V1 completed its lane change it failed to stop for the red light and struck V2 in the back. V1 was towed due to damage while V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

The driver of V1, a 27-year-old male reported no injuries. He advised that had just taken out his vehicle for the first time after refurbishing it, and was just out for a test drive. He stated that when he was approaching the intersection, the brakes did not seem to work well. He said that his car felt heavy and that the brakes probably could not handle the weight of the car.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The Critical Reason for Critical Event was coded as a vehicle related factor, degraded braking capability. Associated factors coded to the driver were experience related as it was his first time driving this vehicle and he rarely travels this road.

V2 left the scene before this researcher's arrival and no further information could be obtained regarding either the vehicle or its driver. The Critical Precrash event for V2 was coded other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There are no known associated factors that could be coded to V2.