This two-vehicle crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. The main road runs east to west and has five lanes west of the intersection and six lanes west of the intersection. Westbound traffic has a left and a right turn lane and two through lanes. The left turn lane is controlled by a left turn on green arrow only. The grade for this roadway is -6 percent when going west with a posted speed of 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during darkness with overhead lighting and no adverse weather.

Vehicle one (V1), 2005 Dodge Grand Caravan, was westbound in the fourth lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Nissan Altima, was eastbound in the second lane. A non-contact vehicle ahead of V1 turned left at the light, V2 slowed to avoid missing the non-contact vehicle. V1 turned left at the intersection and the front of V1 impacted the front of V2. Both vehicles came to rest in the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-one year old male, was not interviewed. Medical records indicate that this driver was taking Coumadin. The only information for this driver comes from the PAR. This driver indicated that when the light turned green for his direction of travel, all vehicles proceeded. This driver indicated that immediately following the crash, this driver looked up at the light and the green arrow was still green and was just changing to yellow.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions. The driver of V1 assumed that V2 would not enter the intersection on a red light.

The driver of V2, a twenty-two year old male, was heading from home to work. This driver had been driving for about twenty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver works as a correctional officer and had just recently changed to the midnight shift and this was his first week on the midnight shift. This driver indicated that he never saw the other vehicle but did see the non-contact vehicle turn in front of him. This driver slowed to miss the other vehicle. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.