This two-vehicle crash occurred in the intersection of a six-lane roadway and a two-lane roadway. The six-lane road is divided with two lanes in either direction and a left turn lane. This intersection is controlled by a traffic signal. The speed limit on the road is 56 kph (40 mph). At the time of the crash, the road was wet and it was raining.

Vehicle one, a 1985 Chevrolet C-10 pickup was southbound in the first lane. Vehicle two, a 2000 Honda Accord was northbound in the third lane (left turn lane). Vehicle two turned left at the intersection. The front of vehicle one impacted the right of vehicle two. Vehicle two rotated clockwise and the left rear wheel impacted the curb. The back of vehicle two then impacted a utility pole. Vehicle one came to rest facing northwest in the first southbound lane. Vehicle two came to rest facing east off the west shoulder. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a thirty-eight year old male had just left work and was heading home at the time of the crash. This driver had only been driving for about two minutes at the time of the crash. This driver indicated that he saw the other vehicle pull out and he braked but could not stop in time to avoid the crash. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis. This vehicle also had one wheel with low tread depth.

The driver of vehicle two, a sixty-one year old female was heading to a store from home. This driver had been driving for about seven minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that she saw a few vehicles across from her that were turning left and thought she had enough time to make the turn. She stated that she never saw the other vehicle. This driver was taking Claritin as a medication. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as “other vehicle encroachment: from opposite direction-over left lane line”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as “not coded to this vehicle”. The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “this vehicle traveling: turning left at intersection”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “driver related factor: inadequate surveillance”.