A four-vehicle crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a six-lane interchange, divided by a curbed median. Southbound lanes consist of two through lanes and one right turn lane onto an entrance ramp. Northbound lanes consist of a right turn lane onto an entrance ramp, two through lanes and one left turn lane onto an entrance ramp. This was a straight, level, bituminous, roadway with a posted speed of 64 kmph (40 mph). It was rush hour on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was congested and was stopped for a red light south of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 GMC Yukon four-door with one occupant, was southbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Ford Focus four-door with three occupants, was southbound in lane three stopped in front of V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 1997 Toyota 4-Runner four door with two occupants, were southbound in lane three stopped in front of V2. Vehicle four (V4), a 2005 Saturn ION four-door with one occupant was southbound in lane three stopped for forward traffic, which was stopped at a red light that was at an intersection south of the crash. The driver of V1 applied her brakes after seeing the vehicle in front of her had stopped and impacted with its front to V2's back. V2 was pushed forward and impacted with its front to V3's back. V3 was pushed forward and impacted with its front to V4's back. V1 came to rest on its wheels facing southwest in lane two. V2 came to rest on its wheels facing southeast on the curbed median. V3 came to rest on its wheels facing southwest in lane three. V4 came to rest on its wheels facing south in lane three. V1 was towed from the scene due to moderate fontal damage. V2 was towed from the scene due to severe back damage. The drivers drove V3 and V4 from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 35 year-old female. The driver stated she does not work, but does help her husband with the books from his self-employed job. She takes the medication Sentrol (sp) on a regular basis and is in good health. She stated she left home and had had turned left onto the roadway of the crash from a side street. She was driving to her daughter's school and had driven less than 1.6-kilometers (1-mile) at the time of the crash. She entered lane three and was behind V2 traveling at a police reported speed of 40 kmph (25 mph). She looked over her right shoulder so she could get into lane two and was starting the lane-change when she looked back onto the roadway and saw the vehicles in front of her were stopped. She applied her ABS brakes before the impact and slid into the back of V2. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded "Other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was driver related, external distraction. The driver looked behind to change into lane two and failed to look far enough ahead.

The driver of V2 was a 33 year-old female. She had left the babysitters house and had driven 3.2 to 4.8 kilometers (2 to 3 miles) and was on her way to meet her husband at the horse stables. There was a 79-year-old male passenger, her father, in the right front seat and a 16-month-old male passenger in the center seat of the 2nd row. Her father was visiting from out of town and they were talking at the time of the crash. She stated she had stopped behind V3 for more then ten seconds when she was impacted in the back. She stated she was pushed forward 1.2 to 1.5 meters (4 to 5 feet) after impacting V3. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded "Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V3 was a 27 year-old male who was a little skeptical at the scene to talk about the crash. The passenger in the vehicle was a two-year-old male. After numerous attempts the researcher was not able to contact the driver. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V3 was coded "Other, not involved in the first harmful event”. The Critical Pre-crash Reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V4 was not involved in the 1st harmful event and the Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle.