This single vehicle crash happened in the morning during daylight hours. The location was a two-lane divided (positive barriers on both side) concrete highway interchange ramp. The roadway was curved to the right. The weather was clear and the road dry. The posted speed limit was 105 kmph (65 mph), with no curve warning signs or advisory speed limit signs posted.

Vehicle one (V1) was a 1993 Nissan Sentra Sedan driven by a 17 year-old female with one passenger, a 15-year-old female. It was traveling southwest in the second lane of the ramp negotiating the right curve. The driver intended to change into lane one of the ramp. An unidentified vehicle was traveling in lane one. When V1 attempted to change lanes, the other vehicle accelerated and passed V1 on the right. The driver steered to the left to avoid a collision. The vehicle departed the left side of the roadway and it's left front corner impacted the concrete traffic median. The vehicle ricocheted clockwise and the left rear panel sideswiped the left concrete median. V1 crossed lane two and one and entered the right shoulder. The driver tried to steer to the left but could not avoid the impact with the right concrete median. The vehicle ricocheted from the concrete median and rotated counter clockwise. The right rear sideswiped the median. V continued to move on the shoulder before it came to rest partially in lane one and partially on the shoulder. The vehicle was towed from the scene. The driver and the right front passenger were briefly treated at the scene by EMS and released. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road to the left side. The critical reason was coded as a driver related performance factor - overcompensation. When the driver realized a collision with the vehicle next to her would not be possible due to the other vehicle accelerating, she abandoned the attempt of the lane change. She overcompensated her steering movement to the left and was unable to control the vehicle.