A two-vehicle daytime collision occurred shortly after noon in daylight hours on a Saturday. The collision occurred in an intersection on a two-way, two-lane undivided residential roadway. The pre-crash roadway is a slight downhill grade for both directions, and leveling off in the area of the intersection. The roadway is straight, with bituminous paving. Access to the roadway is not controlled. There are no traffic control devices for northbound or southbound vehicles at the intersection. The posted speed limit for the roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Ford Focus 4 door wagon, was traveling south in lane one. Vehicle two (V2) a 2004 Kia Sorento was traveling north in lane one. As V2 approached the intersection, V1 initiated a left turn, cutting it very short, and right in front of V2. The front right corner of V1 impacted the front of V2. Both vehicles came to rest adjacent to the impact point. The passenger of V1 was transported to the hospital, due to injury. The passenger in V2 was injured but not transported. V1 was towed due to damage, and V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 54 year-old male whose pre-crash factors are he had a colonoscopy two days prior and found out he may have cancer, he is reportedly in good health otherwise with no hearing restrictions, his vision restrictions are limited to needing reading glasses only. He was traveling with his mother to the store, and he travels this roadway several times a month. He felt as though he may have pulled out in front of a car traveling in the same direction as he turned onto the roadway initially, so he sped up more than normal. As he approached the street he was taking a left turn on, he never saw the other car until they hit. He also has factors of work stress as he hates his job, and the people he works with are unkind to him.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event assigned to this driver is a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

The driver of V2 is a 49 year-old female whose is reportedly in good health with no hearing restrictions, her sight restrictions are limited to needing reading glasses. She was headed from church to her son's friend's house to bring her son some money, her and her husband were discussing their worries, about what their son would be using the money for. She also says that work is stressful as there is too much work, she is familiar with the roadway as she used to live in the neighborhood, and now drives it monthly.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction-over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.