This two-vehicle rear-end crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a five-lane undivided roadway. There were two northbound lanes and three southbound lanes. Northbound approach had a -2% downhill slope, was straight and bituminous. The posted speed limit for this roadway was 56 kmph (35 mph). Conditions were daylight, sunny and clear. Setting was early afternoon hours on a holiday weekday.

Vehicle 1, a 2003 Saturn Vue, compact utility vehicle with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane two. Vehicle 2, a 1998 Toyota Corolla four door subcompact was traveling northbound in lane two directly in front of V1. V2 had slowed down and stopped due to the traffic control signal changing to red. V1 was unable to reduce speed and collided into the rear of V2. After impact, V1 traveled 3.8 meters (12 feet) north and came to final rest in lane two, V2 traveled 6.7 meters (22 feet) north and came to final rest in lane two after being pushed in front of the overhead traffic control device. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.

The Saturn Vue (V1) was driven by a 92 year-old retired male who sustained no injuries from the crash. He reported being on a leisurely drive home from his daughter's house, where he had spent the night. He reportedly slept in that morning, had breakfast with his daughter and decided to go home and do some chores around the house. He reported traveling 48 kmph (30 mph) through two green traffic lights while traveling straight on that roadway. He looked to the right toward an ice cream shop, because he was thinking about stopping for a milk shake. When he returned his eyes straight ahead, he realized V2 had stopped for the red light. He claimed to have hit his foot brakes, but knew he couldn't stop, just hoped he could slow down and lessen the impact. He then collided into the rear of V2 and pushed it forward. V1 was towed from the scene with disabling front end damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was Other Motor Vehicle in Lane, Other Vehicle Stopped. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a Driver Related Factor, External Distraction. The driver of V1 stated that he had been focused on the ice cream shop and not the roadway. An associated factor was arthritis and a clogged heart valve. This driver also requires glasses for driving and uses a hearing aid.

The Toyota Corolla (V2) was driven by a 45 year-old female who was transported from the scene with possible injuries. On the day of the crash, she was taking her sister, with whom she had spent all morning, back home. She reported driving straight ahead at 48 kmph (30 mph) when the traffic light turned red. She stopped her vehicle, looked in her rearview mirror and saw V1 "flying down the hill toward her." She attempted to put her car in gear and accelerate to avoid being hit, but the events happened too quickly and she was struck in the rear. V2 did not suffer disabling damage, but was towed from the scene.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was Other Motor in Lane, Traveling in the Same Direction with a Higher Steady Speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. This driver requires glasses and a hearing aid to drive. She was talking to her sister prior to the crash occurring. No other associated factors were coded for this driver.