This two-vehicle crash occurred shortly after noon on a Sunday. The location was in the southbound lanes of a busy interstate highway. This roadway was a bituminous four-lane divided roadway. The impact location is just north of another highway junction. The weather was cloudy and wet from previous rain, and visibility was clear. The posted speed limit was 97 kmph (60 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Dodge Intrepid 4 door sedan with three occupants, was traveling southbound in lane two, approaching stopped traffic. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 GMC Yukon SUV with four occupants was stopped in the congested traffic in lane two facing southbound ahead of V1. As V1 approached V2, V1 began a steady honk then the front of V1 struck the rear of V2. V2 drove over to the right shoulder. V1 remained stalled where it was at impact until the trooper pushed it over to the right shoulder. V2 was not disabled and was driven away from the scene. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 24 year-old male whose precrash factors are unknown as he was unable to be reached for interview. There were two additional passengers in the vehicle: a 22-year-old female in the right front seat and a 21-year-old male passenger in the right rear seat. Citing pending litigation, no interviews were granted by these two occupants. The driver told the investigating officer he was not hurt from the collision and refused aid while on-scene. The damage to both vehicles is across the entire end plane and indicates the driver of V1 did not try to steer left or right to avoid the impact and stayed in his original pre-crash travel lane. It is unknown if he attempted any braking inputs. The tires were in good condition and slightly above recommended inflation levels. There was no indication of any vehicle related factors for V1 by the investigating officer or from the vehicle inspection.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. This driver failed to recognize that forward vehicles were stopped in the southbound traffic lanes. The critical reason was coded as an unknown driver factor. There was not enough information to determine if the Critical Reason was recognition, decision, or possibly even a critical non-performance factor for the driver.

The driver of V2, a 39 year-old female, was wearing a lap & shoulder belt and reported she was not injured. She was traveling with her husband and two children, they were headed to the theater, and running a bit late for the show. She was sort of in a hurry. She was having a conversation with her husband regarding family matters. She takes a thyroid medication, and wears corrective lenses. She was well rested, and does not work outside of the home. This is a route that she drives daily. She also is very comfortable with the condition of her vehicle. She was stopped in the congested traffic in the southbound lanes ahead of V1.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The driver was talking with her husband just prior to the collision, however heard the honking of the other vehicle, and spotted it in her rearview mirror, and may have braced. A critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle.