A two vehicle daytime collision occurred shortly after noon during daylight hours on a Tuesday. The collision occurred on a four-lane two-way arterial street where it intersects with a side street. Both roads are straight, level, and paved with concrete. At the intersection, the side street has a stop sign, but there are no control devices for the arterial road. The speed limit for the arterial road is 56 kmph (35 mph).

Vehicle 1 (V1), a 2003 Ford F150 pickup, was stopped on the side street waiting to turn left. Vehicle 2 (V2), a 1998 Ford Windstar minivan, was headed south in lane two. V1 turned left from the stop sign, striking the front of V2 with the left front corner of V1. This pushed V1 to the right and in a clockwise rotation, with the front of V2 scraping down the left side of V1. Both vehicles were towed from the scene, but neither driver was transported to the hospital for injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The drivers of both vehicles agreed that there was a transit bus stopped just north of the intersection in lane one discharging passengers at the northwest corner of the intersection. This bus created a sight line problem for both drivers. The bus prevented V2 from seeing V1 pull from the side street, eliminating enough reaction time for an avoidance maneuver from V2. The driver of V1 stated that the bus driver had waved him ahead to make his left turn. According to a witness listed in the police report, the witness stated that she did not see the bus driver wave V1 into traffic.

The driver of V1 was a 26-year-old male who had just left work and was on his way to get lunch. He drives the road daily and was familiar with this intersection. The pre-event movement for V1 was coded: stopped in traffic lane. This driver stated that he had stopped at the stop sign for more than 10 seconds before proceeding into the intersection. He indicated that he checked traffic in both directions he was waived out into the intersection by the transit bus driver and then he looked to the right before he pulled out into the intersection. He made a false assumption that traffic in the lane adjacent to the transit bus was clear. The critical pre-crash event was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was assigned to this driver as a driver related decision factor: other decision error (specified as: V1 turned with obstructed view by intervening in-transport transit bus). The critical reason was assigned to V1 because this driver had a stop sign as a traffic control and did not yield the right of way to V2. The driver made a decision to turn from the stop sign with the view to his left obstructed by the transit bus.

The driver of V2 was a 47-year-old male who was on his way from a job site to a paint store. It was this driver's first time on the road and he stated he was going straight in the number two travel lane and as he passed the transit bus on in the number one lane, V1 was suddenly in front of his vehicle and he had not time to make any avoidance actions to avoid the collision. The driver of V2 did not see V1 because the transit bus obstructed his view of V1. The pre-event movement for V2 was coded: going straight. The critical pre-crash event was coded: other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle.