A single-vehicle collision occurred a couple hours before mid-night during dark hours. The collision occurred on a two-way, six-lane divided interstate, off the left side of the roadway. The pre-crash roadway is a slight downhill grade, and a curve right with a radius of 188 meters (617 feet) with bituminous paving, and street lights present in the area of the crash. The weather was clear and the roadway was dry. The roadway has a posted speed limit of 97 Kmph (60mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1991 Ford Escort with three occupants, was traveling southbound in lane three. According to witness, driver of V1 was driving aggressively, changing lanes and driving very fast. She was driving very close to the left barrier, and swerved to the right to miss the barrier. Upon steering right, the driver over corrected and steered left and the vehicle began to rotate counter-clockwise, and departed the roadway via the left shoulder. The right side tires of V1 tripped on the uneven ground, causing V1 to roll right 4-quarter turns, coming to rest on the wheels facing northwest on the left shoulder. V1 was towed due to damage. The tire-marks start in lane two, and the vehicle did not have any damage on the left side from the barrier. None of the occupants were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

It is unsure if the driver of V1 was the 22 year-old female listed on the police report, or her husband an unknown-aged male, whose pre-crash factors are unknown. He was not interviewed. Most of the pre-crash factors for the female are unknown as she was interview with her husband as an interpreter, in broken English. He kept telling he didn't understand. She is reportedly in good health, with no hearing or sight restrictions, she was traveling home from work with her children in the car, and he claims he arrived at the scene following the accident. Per witnesses, he handed her the keys at the scene, and they were sure he was alcohol impaired. It is unknown who was really driving the vehicle

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "This vehicle traveling: off the edge of the road on the left side”. The critical reason was: "Driver Related Factor: Aggressive Driving behavior”. Witnesses following the vehicle prior to the crash claimed the vehicle was speeding with rapid lane changes. The vehicle was acting erratic before the vehicle entered the highway from an on ramp. .