A two-vehicle daytime collision occurred shortly after noon on a Friday. The collision occurred at a T-intersection with on a east/west two-way, four-lane, undivided roadway that intersects with a north/south five-lane, two-way road. Just prior to the intersection the center lane of the north/south roadway becomes a center-divider in the northbound travel direction due to the T-type intersection configuration. The pre-crash travel in both roadways is level and straight, with bituminous paving. The posted speed limit for both roadways is 56 kmph (35 mph). A stop sign is posted at the intersection for the east/west leg for westbound travel, and there are no traffic controls for north/south travel.

Vehicle 1 (V1), a 2004 Pontiac Grand Prix, was traveling west in lane one, approaching an intersection in the #1 travel lane. The roadway he was traveling has a stop sign posted at the intersection. Vehicle 2 (V2), a 1990 Ford F-series regular cab pickup, was traveling north in lane one. As V1 entered the roadway to turn right, the front left of V1 impacted the right side of V2. V2 then rotated clockwise to the northwest across three travel lanes and came to rest facing east on the west shoulder. V1 rotated clockwise and came to rest facing east in the northbound #1 travel lane. Neither vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 57-year-old male who is reportedly in good health with no hearing restrictions, his sight is corrected with glasses, for an unknown condition. He regularly takes insulin for his diabetes, which is under control. He was just headed from a sandwich shop nearby looking for a local business. He focus just prior to the crash was looking for a particular street sign, he claims he looked, but did not see V2. He was well rested, and this was his first time on this roadway. He is somewhat comfortable with the car, he does drive it regularly, but it is a company car. It was the first time the driver had driven this roadway and he stated he did not see the stop sign. The police report cited the driver for not stopping for the stop sign.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning right at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was assigned to this driver as a driver related recognition error: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see).

The driver of V2 was a 31-year-old male who was arrested on-scene for unrelated charges. The majority of this driver's pre-crash factors are all unknown, as he was not interviewed. According to the police report narrative: the purpose of this trip was the driver was taking his three children to his mother-in-law's house, to drop them off while on his way to work overtime.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into same direction. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.