This crash occurred in a 4-way intersection of an east/west and north/south roadway. Both roadways were undivided; the north/south roadway had 3 lanes of travel and the east/west roadway had 4 lanes of travel. The north and south roadways had stop signs, while the east/west roadways had no traffic control device. The posted speed on the east/west roadway was 72 kmph (45 mph) and the posted speed on the north/south roadway was 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred in the late evening hours on a weeknight. It was cloudy out, but the roadways were dry. Both roadways were illuminated by streetlamps.

Vehicle #1 was a 1989 Oldsmobile Cutlass driven by a 21-year old female. V1 was traveling south and failed to complete a full stop, proceeding into the intersection. As the vehicle crossed over the second westbound lane, it was struck on the left side by the front of Vehicle #2, a 1995 Ford Ranger pickup. V2 was driven by a 22-year old male who was proceeding westbound in the second lane of travel with the right of way. After impact, V1 rotated counterclockwise and skidded to the southwest corner of the intersection. V1 climbed over the curb and came to final rest on the grass. Vehicle #2 rotated counterclockwise and came to final rest facing in a southeast direction in lane #2 of the eastbound lanes of travel. A witness to the crash helped the driver of V2 push his vehicle to the southwest curb of the intersection so it would not be hit again by other traffic. The driver of V1 was transported to a local trauma unit with life-threatening injuries. The driver of V2 refused transport to a hospital. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 reported that she was in good health and was taking no medications. She stated that she does wear corrective lenses and was wearing then at the time of the crash. She stated that she had just dropped off her children at her ex-husband's house and was going to a friend's home and they were going out for the evening. She claimed that she did not roll through the stop sign. She stated that she rolled up to the stop sign and looked to the left and then to the right. She stated that that she did not look back to the left as she usually would because she was in a bit of a hurry.

The driver of V2 reported that he was in good health and was not taking any medications. He reported that he does not wear corrective lenses. He stated that this was his first time driving this roadway and he was on his way to meet some friends at a nightclub one mile down the road. This driver was very upset at the scene because the back and side glass was broken out of V1 and there was an empty child seat in V1. The driver of V1 was unconscious at the scene and could not immediately respond to questions as to whether there had been a child in the vehicle at the time of the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling - crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). Associated factors coded to this driver include alcohol use (one hour after the crash the driver was found to have an alcohol level of .173), inattention (the driver stated that she had been worrying about paying her bills), an illegal maneuver (a witness stated that V1 did not stop for the stop sign), and being in a hurry.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factor coded to this driver was unfamiliarity with the roadway.