This two-vehicle collision occurred on a weeknight during evening hours. The crash occurred at the four-leg intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway. The intersection is controlled by tri-light traffic signals, and the speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph) in all directions. The south leg of the intersection is am eight-lane, two-way curved, level, bituminous road. The north leg is a five-lane, two-way, straight, level, bituminous roadway. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions, and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Land Rover LR3, was stopped in the third lane, facing south at the intersection, waiting to turn left into eastbound traffic. A non-contact vehicle was ahead of V1 and also stopped and waiting to turn left. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Dodge Durango SUV, was traveling northbound and approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. The non-contact vehicle executed its turn as V2 was entering the intersection. V1 also executed its turn, and the front of V1 impacted the left side of V2. Both vehicles deflected northeast to final rest in the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

The 23-year-old female driver of V1 was driving from her home to have dinner with her friends. She reported being well rested and in good health. She drives this route three to four times a week. She reported that the vehicle ahead of her blocked her view of opposing traffic. After it turned, she saw V2, but she thought it had stopped to allow the non-contact vehicle to proceed. She assumed that V2 would allow her to proceed. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related decision error, false assumption of other's actions.

The 31-year-old male driver of V2 reported that he was rested and in good health. He was traveling with his wife and infant child from a restaurant to their home. He stated that as he entered the intersection, the non-contact vehicle turned in front of him, forcing him to brake. After the non-contact vehicle was passed, he accelerated and his wife (the right front passenger), noticed V1 and called out. The driver of V2 applied the brakes and veered right, but was unable to avoid a collision. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over left lane line. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.