This is a two-vehicle intersection crash that occurred late afternoon in daylight hours at a four-way intersection that is controlled by a traffic light on colors. The crash occurred on two-way, five lane roadway divided by a continuous left turn lane. There are two westbound and two eastbound lanes that are separated by a continuous left turn lane. There is one northbound and two southbound lanes also separated by a left turn lane on both sides of the intersection. The roadways are straight, level and constructed of bituminous asphalt. The speed limit for the westbound and eastbound roadway is 88 KPH (55 MPH). The roadway was dry and the sky was clear.

Vehicle one (V-1), a 1994 Chevrolet 2500 Silverado 4X4 pickup driven by a 46 year-old male with one passenger was stopped in the left turn behind a non-contact vehicle waiting to turn left to travel southbound. Vehicle two (V-2), a 2003 Toyota Tacoma 4X2 pickup driven by a 18 year-old male was traveling eastbound in the #2 lane approaching the intersection on a green light. The non-contact vehicle then made a left turn across the path of V-2. V-2 then had to steer to the left to avoid the non-contact vehicle. V-1 then began to turn left directly behind the non-contact vehicle. The front of V-1 struck the front of V-2 just as both vehicles were in a left urn maneuver. The impact caused V-2 to rotate clockwise coming to rest near the east side of the intersection facing in a southerly direction. V-1 rotated counterclockwise and traveled in a backwards motion coming to rest near the east side of the intersection facing in a northwesterly direction. The vehicles came to rest within 2 meters of each other. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

The driver of V 1 stated that he was stopped in the left turn lane behind another vehicle for about 30-40 seconds. He said the light turned yellow and the car in front of him turned left. He said that he saw V-2 approaching the intersection traveling eastbound. He thought V-2 was going to stop. He then made the left turn directly behind the non-contact vehicle. The driver said that he was on his way home to eat dinner because his wife had dinner ready and he was hungry. The vehicle was towed due to damage.

The driver of V 2 stated that he was traveling eastbound at about 50 MPH approaching the intersection on a green light. He said that he saw a car stopped in the intersection. He said just as he entered the intersection the light turned yellow and the car turned in front of him. He had to steer to the left to avoid striking that vehicle. He said that the vehicle that stopped behind the non-contact vehicle also turned in front of him. He said that he barely avoided striking the first vehicle that turned in front of him. The vehicle was towed due to damage.

The critical event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection. Critical reason driver related factor "false assumption of other's actions".

The critical pre crash event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment-from opposite direction-over the left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

Associated factor for V 1 may have been in a hurry causing inattention.