This crash occurred in the early afternoon of a weekday in the intersection of a three-lane, east/west roadway and a north/south two-lane roadway. The westbound lanes of the roadway curved to the right and featured a nominal (1%) uphill grade with a posted speed limit of 72kmph (45 mph). The northbound lane was straight with a 3% uphill grade and a posted speed limit of 72kmph (45 mph). Conditions were daylight and dry with clear skies.

V1, a 2000 Dodge Grand Caravan minivan, was westbound in lane one approaching the intersection traveling at 56kmph (35 mph). V2, a 2004 Honda Accord sedan was stopped at a stop sign facing north waiting to cross the intersection. As V2 crossed over the intersection it was struck on the right side by the front of V1. Both vehicles came to final rest in the roadway northwest of the point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 30 year-old female who was transported to a local hospital with possible injuries. She stated that she was heading to lunch from work when the other vehicle pulled out in front of her. She stated she did not have time to react. V1 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street across path. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associated factors coded to V1 and the driver was not thought to have contributed to the crash.

V2 was driven by a 31 year-old male who was also transported to a local hospital with possible injuries. He stated that he was driving around a group of car dealerships. He stopped at stop sign to cross the street, looked both ways, and then proceeded. He was struck after entering the intersection. He estimated his travel and impact speeds to be 16kmph (10 mph), as he also didn't have a chance to react. V2 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was this vehicle traveling, passing through (crossing over) the intersection. The Critical Reason was a driver related factor, inadequate surveillance (looked but did not see). This driver was taking Tylenol for flu symptoms at the time of the crash. It was his first time driving on this road, which could have contributed to the crash.