This crash occurred on a weekday evening in the middle of an urban intersection. The intersection consisted of a north/south four lane divided roadway and an east/west four-lane divided roadway controlled by a properly functioning traffic signal. Both roadways were bituminous, dry, straight, and level with a posted speed limit of 80kmph (50 mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1998 Nissan Sentra, was southbound in lane three approaching the intersection where it intended to go straight. V2, a 2003 Toyota Camry was also southbound in lane three just ahead of V1. V3 was eastbound in lane one approaching the same intersection where it intended to turn right (south). As V2 passed through the intersection it decelerated for traffic ahead. V1 failed to slow down and struck the rear of V2. V1 was redirected approximately 30 degrees, and struck the left side of V3 as it commenced its right turn. V1 continued to travel in a southeast direction, departed the roadway to the right and traveled down a slight embankment before coming to rest in the parking lot of a shopping center. V2 and V3 came to final rest near their respective points of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 58 year-old female who stated that while running an errand she had a diabetic attack and passed out. She lost control of her vehicle as she entered the intersection and did not remember any of the crash events. She had been driving less than fifteen minutes before passing out. She was transported for treatment of unknown injuries and V1 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded other vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason was coded as a driver related factor a physical impairment of the ability to act. Her condition as a diabetic was coded as an associated factor.

V2 was driven by a 30 year-old female who drove away from the crash and was unable to be located. The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle in lane, traveling with higher speed. A critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was driven by a 35 year-old male who refused to be interviewed. The Critical Precrash Event for V3 was coded as not involved in the first harmful event. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle.