V1, a 2003 Peterbilt tractor-trailer, was traveling westbound on a four-lane interstate divided by a concrete median barrier. The roadway was dry, level, and curved to the right. The posted speed limit was 113 kmph (70 mph). The crash occurred in the early afternoon hours on a clear day. V1 was traveling in lane three attempting to change lanes to the right. V2, a 1987 Chevrolet Corvette, was also traveling westbound on the same highway. V2 was traveling in lane two intending to go straight. The driver of V1 stated that he looked but did not see V2 and started to make the lane change. The right front of V1 contacted the left of V2; V2 then skidded to the right where its right front contacted a guardrail before coming to final rest in the roadway.

The driver of V1 was a 41-year old male who reported that he had been traveling between 82-97 kmph (51-60 mph) prior to the crash. He had no health-related problems and had taken no medication prior to the crash. He was rested and traveling to pick up a load. He was wearing his prescribed lenses that corrected astigmatism. He sustained minor injuries but refused treatment. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for the driver of V1 was this vehicle traveling over the lane line on right side of travel. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see). An associated factor was the view obstruction related to the vehicle design. The driver was also unfamiliar with the roadway.

The driver of V2 was a 32-year old female who reported that she had been traveling between 98-113 kmph (61-70 mph) prior to the crash. She had no health-related problems and had taken no medication prior to the crash. She was rested and traveling to go shopping. She does not wear prescription lenses. She sustained minor injuries but refused treatment.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for the driver of V2 was other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane-over left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to the driver of V2 and she was not thought to have contributed to the crash. One associated factor coded to this driver was unfamiliarity with the vehicle, as this was the first time she had driven it.