This two-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours on a weekday morning. The crash occurred at the intersection of a straight, level, five-lane, two-way, east-west, bituminous roadway and a private business driveway that intersects the south curb of the main roadway. The speed limit on the main roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph), and there is a posted speed limit on the private driveway of 8 kmph (5 mph). At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions, and the roadway was free of defects. The view of crossing traffic is not blocked by trees and lighting fixtures along the south curb.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, was traveling northbound in the private drive and was approaching the main roadway with the intention of turning left into westbound traffic. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 GMC half-ton Suburban SUV, was traveling eastbound in the first lane of the main roadway, approaching the private drive on its right with the intention of continuing straight. As V1 executed its turn, the front of V2 impacted the left side of V1. The vehicles rotated towards each other and the left side of V1 contacted the right side of V2 in a side-slap configuration. Both vehicles deflected east to final rest in the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 25-year-old female driver of V1 reported that she had just dropped her mother off at work, and was proceeding to her own workplace. She was holding a cup of coffee in her left hand at the time of the crash. She reported that she stopped at the end of the driveway and checked both direction for approaching traffic, but saw none. She proceeded to turn, and never saw V2 before the impact. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related recognition error, inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

The 34-year-old female driver of V2 was traveling to a school to drop off her daughter, the right rear passenger. She reported seeing V1 approaching the roadway. She stated that V1 accelerated into traffic without stopping. The driver of V2 reported that she made eye contact with the driver of V1 as V1 entered traffic. The driver of V2 applied the brakes and steered left, but was unable to avoid a collision. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment, from driveway, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.