This single vehicle ran off the left side of the roadway crash occurred on a five lane, two-way roadway. There are two westbound lanes and two eastbound lanes that are separated by a continuous two way left turn lane. This was a straight level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 89 KHP (55 MPH). It was a morning on a weekday, the road was dry and the sky was clear.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Honda Civic 2 dr with one occupant, was traveling westbound in the number two lane. The vehicle traveled off the left side of the roadway for about 47 meters before the front of the vehicle struck an aluminum pole. The vehicle continued to travel in a southwesterly direction until it struck a large concrete block. The vehicle then rotated counterclockwise and tripped on its right wheels. The vehicle rolled to its right 4 quarter turns until it came to rest in a retention basin on its wheels facing in a southeasterly direction. The driver of V-1 was transported from the scene by EMS. The vehicle was towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

A 70-year old female drove V1. The driver told police that she was traveling westbound on her way to town. She said that she does not remember what happened prior to the crash. She said that she has a medical history of high blood pressure and had taken her medications the morning of the crash. She also told police that she has blacked out before within the past two years for unknown reasons. The medical report stated that the driver had an episode of syncope just prior to the crash.

The pre-event movement for V1 was coded "going straight". The critical pre crash event was coded "this vehicle traveling-off the left side of the roadway". The critical reason was coded "driver related factor-heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act". The driver blacked out prior to the crash. This impaired her ability to control the vehicle and keep it within the travel lanes and to maintain control of the vehicle.