The crash occurred in the eastbound lane of a two-lane, east/west urban roadway with a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). This bituminous roadway was wet, level and had a slight curve. It was early afternoon on a cloudy weekday when this crash took place. Traffic was minimal.

V1, a 1988 Pontiac Bonneville with driver as the only occupant, was traveling east in lane one. V2, a 1991 Honda Accord with driver as the only occupant, was traveling west in lane one. An unknown vehicle had been traveling in front of V1 when it stopped in lane one for unknown reasons. V1 swerved to the left and crossed the dividing lane lines entering the westbound traffic lane. V2 had just negotiated a left curve in the road and as V2 exited the curve, the front of V2 was struck by the front of V1. Upon impact, both V1 and V2 traveled in a northeasterly direction, V2 traveling backwards, until they came to their final rest along the north curb of this roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the 1988 Pontiac Bonneville, was driven by a 24-year old male who fled the scene of the crash. Police later found the driver and it was learned that V1 had a license plate that was not registered to V1. The driver reported to the police that an unknown vehicle had stopped directly in front of him and that is why V1 drove into the oncoming westbound lane. The researcher never had any contact with V1 driver and later attempts to contact him were not successful. It was concluded that the driver did not want to participate in the driver's survey. V1 driver was charged for violating an unknown vehicle code.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the left side of travel lane." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver related factor - unknown decision error. Associated factors coded to V1 were a traffic flow obstruction caused by the vehicle that had stopped in front of V1 in the travel lane, a tire deficiency, and a view obstruction that was caused by the unknown vehicle. It was unknown if the driver had been engaged in any non-driving activities, though it was known that V1 driver was not ill at the time of the crash.

V2, the 1991 Honda Accord, was driven by a 36-year old male who had already been transported to the emergency room upon researcher's arrival. V2 driver's common law wife was at the emergency room and though she provided some information about the driver, she knew very little about the details of the crash events other than V1 had entered V2's lane and struck V2. It was learned that the driver was very familiar with the roadway and V2, and the driver had at least twenty years of driving experience. It was also known that he was in good health and took no medications though he did have slightly elevated blood pressure.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction - over left lane line." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to this driver included a view obstruction caused by the stopped vehicle.