The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of an east/west primary arterial road that had five travel lanes (lane 3 was a two way turn lane) and a paved shoulder on the south side of the roadway. It happened in a business district at a shopping center driveway entry/exit that intersected the south side of the roadway, had three lanes (two exit-left and right turn only, and an entry lane) and exit traffic was controlled by a stop sign that was over fifteen meters south of the arterial roadway. The roadway had a positive (if eastbound) two percent grade with no traffic controls, was straight, and had a speed limit of 56kph (35mph). The crash occurred in mid afternoon on a weekday with no adverse weather conditions.

Vehicle #1 was a1998 Plymouth Neon that was preparing to turn left from the left turn lane of the shopping center driveway intending to head west on the arterial roadway when it was waved out by a non-contact vehicle in the right eastbound lane that had stopped to let Vehicle #1 out. As Vehicle #1 proceeded into the roadway it was struck on the left plane near its front by Vehicle#2, a 1990 Chevrolet Lumina that was traveling east on the arterial road in the 2nd lane. Vehicle #1 spun about 70 degrees clockwise and came to rest facing northeast in the eastbound lane 2. Vehicle #2 came to rest still contacting Vehicle #1 and was facing east, straddling lanes two and three. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle #1, was driven by a 19 year-old belted female whose airbags did deploy as a result of the crash. She was uninjured in the crash. the driver stated that she was trying to turn left out of the mall to go home when this blue car stopped and waved her out of the driveway. She couldn't see any one coming on the other side of the car so she pulled out. that is when she got hit. She was cited by police with failure to yield.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was an other decision error, proceeded with blocked view. The driver of Vehicle #1 stated that she couldn't see that it was clear but pulled out anyway based on the non-contact driver waving her out. That was coded as a false assumption. She was also coded with an inadequate surveillance factor of looked but did not see. Inexperienced driver was also coded as was a sightline restriction, (non contact vehicle).

Vehicle #2, was driven by a 21 year-old belted female whose vehicle was not equipped with airbags but was nonetheless uninjured in the crash. There were three minor age occupants in the vehicle. The right front occupant was a 16 year-old belted female (uninjured). The left rear occupant was a 2 year-old female in a child seat (uninjured). The right rear occupant was a 1 year-old male who was in a child seat also but was transported due to possible injury to a local hospital.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #2 was other vehicle encroachment from driveway turning into opposite direction. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Impending problem masked by traffic flow pattern was coded due to the non-contact vehicle stopped in the right lane adjacent to Vehicle #2 blocking its view of the developing situation. The driver of Vehicle #2 refused an on scene interview when it was assessed that the child occupant was going to be transported, she also gave false contact information to the police. Police charged her with driving on a suspended license.