This two-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours on a weekday afternoon. The crash occurred at the four-leg intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light traffic signal with no protected left phase, and the speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph) in all directions. The east-west roadway is a straight, level, two-way, bituminous roadway with six lanes approaching the intersection from the east, and five lanes approaching from the west. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions, and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1989 Cadillac Deville 4-door sedan, was stopped facing westbound at the intersection and waiting to turn left into southbound traffic. V1 was also following another vehicle being driven by a relative. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound in the second lane, approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. The vehicle leading V1 executed a left turn, and the tri-light changed to the yellow phase. V1 attempted to execute its left turn as V2 entered the intersection, and the front of V1 impacted the front of V2. Both vehicles deflected southeast to final rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 18-year-old driver of V1 has one year of driving experience. He was following his brother home after visiting a friend in the hospital. The driver of V1 reported that he is taking final exams in school this week. He stated that after his brother turned, the light was yellow. He saw V2's approach, but assumed that V2 would stop. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related decision error, false assumption of other's actions.

The 18-year-old female driver of V2 reported that she was traveling above the posted speed limit as she approached the intersection. Inspection of her vehicle revealed that her right-front tire was highly over-inflated, and the right-rear tire was under-inflated. As she approached the intersection, she saw the leading vehicle turn in front of her. She then saw V1 waiting to turn as she entered the intersection, but she assumed V1 would remain stopped. When V1 turned, she applied the brakes and tried to steer right, but was unable to avoid the collision. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over left lane line. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.