This two-vehicle collision occurred during dawn hours on a weekday. The crash occurred at the four-leg intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway. Both roadways are five-lane, two-way, straight, level, bituminous roads. The road surface in the intersection is in poor condition, with multiple cracks and small potholes. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light traffic signal, and the speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph) in all directions. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Ford F-150 pickup, was traveling southbound in the second lane, approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Jeep Grand Cherokee compact SUV, was traveling westbound in the second lane, approaching the intention of passing straight through. In the intersection, the front of V2 impacted the left side of V1. V1 deflected southwest and rotated counter-clockwise, departing the road over the west curb and coming to rest. V2 came to rest in the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 29-year-old male driver of V1 was traveling with a passenger on their way to work. The driver reported that he was drinking coffee, and that he was placing his cup into the vehicle's cup holder as he entered the intersection. He reported to police that he was unsure of the tri-light phase, but he thought it was green. After entering the intersection, he saw V2's approach and realized that a crash was imminent. He attempted to accelerate out of the way, but was unable to avoid the collision. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related recognition error, internal distraction.

The 29-year-old male driver of V2 was traveling alone to a friend's home. His driver license is expired, but he also maintains a current and valid international license issued in Israel. He reported that the tri-light was in the green phase as he entered the intersection. As V1 traveled in front of him, he attempted to avoid the collision by braking, but was unsuccessful. Inspection revealed that all four tires on V2 were under-inflated. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.