This two-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of a two-lane roadway and a three-lane roadway. The two-lane roadway is curved to the right for westbound traffic. This roadway intersects with a three-lane, level, dry bituminous roadway that runs north to south and curves to the left for southbound travel. A stop sign and a flashing caution light controlled this intersection. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Toyota Avalon was westbound in the first lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Ford F-150 pickup truck was southbound in the first lane and was towing a trailer. V1 was stopped for several moments at the intersection. When V1 entered the intersection the front of V2 struck the right side of V1. Post-impact, V1 rotated clockwise and its left side struck a stop sign coming to rest off of the roadway facing east. V2 jack-knifed and came to rest on the shoulder of the roadway facing north. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-eight year old female, was heading to her sons baseball game at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about fifteen minutes at the time of the crash. This driver indicated that she was talking to her son, and also the passenger, about heading to the game and whether or not they should stop and get a drink. This driver indicated that she did look both ways before proceeding. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of V2, a twenty-four year old male, was heading from his home to a home at college in this town. This driver had been driving for about thirty minutes at the time of the crash. Medical records indicate this driver was taking Lortab (Percocet), the driver stated he was not taking any medications during the interview. This driver had been moving furniture all day and was considered fatigued. He indicated that the other vehicle just pulled out from the light. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over [passing through] intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing, across path. The critical reason for critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.