This two car, single-event crash occurred at the intersection of two, two way, median divided, concrete, straight urban streets on a warm, sunny winter weekend afternoon. Both roads have a speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The intersection is controlled by traffic lights, with a pedestrian crossing signal.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1991 Oldsmobile Cutlass Ciera 4-door sedan, was eastbound waiting to turn left off of a +3% uphill, 3-lane road into a shopping mall access road. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Pontiac Bonneville 4, was westbound on a 6-lane road -3%downhill grade, intending on going straight. V1 was eastbound in lane 3 (a left-turn only lane) and had been waiting for traffic to clear the entire light, in order to take a left turn (northbound). V1 driver stated the light turned yellow, and she saw V2 approaching the intersection, but she assumed he would stop and she could clear the intersection. As V2 continued to approach, V1 driver attempted to brake, but was struck on the front right corner by V2. The impact caused V1 to come to rest facing north across traffic lanes, on the north of the intersection. V2 was westbound in lane 2, intending to go straight, and was momentarily distracted by a loud pickup truck in lane 1. When V2 driver looked back ahead, he saw the light was yellow, and decided to accelerate to try and clear the intersection. V2 driver says he did not see V1 until it was too late. V2 driver tried to brake and steer right, but struck V1 with his front left of his vehicle. He came to rest on the north side of the intersection, facing northwest. Both cars had been moved prior to researcher arrival, as the collision occurred on a busy thoroughfare. Driver 1 complained of minor injuries, and transported as a precaution due to injuries. V2 was able to drive away, but V1 was left at the scene, later towed due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

An 85-year old female, who takes a few medications for a degenerative disk in her back, and high blood pressure occupied V1. She takes the following medications: Micardis, Norvasc, Hydrochlorothiaz Tylenol, and Darvocet. She took her last Darvocet 6 hours prior to the crash. She was on her way to get groceries, and had left home moments before the event. She drives the road daily, and was comfortable with both the road, and her vehicle. She had plenty of time and was not in a hurry.

The critical pre-crash event coded to V1 is: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason is coded to V1 as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions. The driver assumed V2 was going to stop and not enter the intersection and encroached into V2's travel lane.

A 28-year old male who was on his way to his brother's house after shopping at the mall occupied V2. He had been driving for about 10 minutes before the crash. The driver takes no medications. A loud truck in the right lane before the intersection distracted him. When he looked back at the road, the light had turned yellow, and he made a decision to accelerate and try to beat the light. He was from out of town, but drives this road monthly. He was thinking about spending time with his family and getting his Christmas shopping done.

The critical pre-crash event coded to V2 is: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction- over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.