This two-vehicle collision occurred during dusk hours on a weekday. The crash occurred at the intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway. The speed limit for north-south traffic is 56 kmph (35 mph); the limit for east-west traffic is 40 kmph (25 mph). At the time of the crash, there were no adverse atmospheric conditions and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Dodge Neon four-door sedan, was traveling southbound in the first lane of a five-lane, two-way, divided, dry, level, bituminous roadway, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two, a 1999 Chevrolet Cavalier two-door coupe, was traveling southbound in the second lane, slightly behind V1. As V1 traversed the intersection, it veered left attempting to make a left turn into eastbound traffic. As V1 turned, the front of V2 impacted the left side of V1. Both vehicles came to rest in the second southbound lane. The EDR reading from V2 indicated an impact speed of approximately 28 mph (45 kmph) and recorded velocity change of 9.21 mph (15 kmph) during impact. V1 was driven from the scene; V2 was towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 27-year-old male driver of V1 is a resident of the United Kingdom, on vacation in the US, and is therefore unaccustomed to local traffic flow patterns. He also reported that he had consumed alcohol earlier in the day. He was subjected to field sobriety tests by the police, which he passed. The driver reported that he was searching for a parking space along the right curb, and that he did not move into the adjacent lane. He claims that he was impacted from behind in his original lane. Witnesses and evidence indicate that he attempted to execute a left turn from the wrong lane. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was: This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver related decision error, illegal maneuver.

The 46-year-old female driver of V2 reported that she was on her way to a business dinner at the time of the collision, and that her thoughts were focused on that event. She rarely travels through this area. When V1 executed the turn in front of her, she applied the brakes, but was unsuccessful in avoiding the collision. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was: Other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane (same direction), over right lane line. A critical reason was not assigned to this driver.