A three vehicle daytime collision occurred during late afternoon commute hours on a weekday. The collision occurred at the 4-leg intersection of a north-south street and an east-west street. Both roads are two-way traffic, with three lanes approaching the intersection with the exception of the street approaching from the south. The third lane is a left turn lane approaching the intersection. The east-west road and the intersection itself are paved with bituminous asphalt, and the road is straight and level. The speed limit of the arterial road is 56 kmph (35 mph). There were no adverse weather conditions at this time.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Chevrolet G-20 Sport Van, was headed north in lane one of the road with only a driver. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Ford Explorer SUV, was entering the intersection heading east in lane one with a driver and two passengers. Vehicle three (V3), a 1989 Honda Accord sedan, was approaching the intersection from the east in lane one with a driver and a passenger. V2 entered the intersection as V1 did, and the front of V2 impacted the left plane of V1 at the front-left corner. V1 rotated clockwise and V2 rotated counter-clockwise until the right rear corner of V2 impacted the left side of V1. V2 then continued forward into the front of V3 with its front plane. All vehicles were towed due to damage, but no occupants claimed injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 26-year-old male who was on his way from work going to band rehearsal. The NASS researcher was unable to do a complete an interview with this driver, but was able to obtain a brief description of the crash from him. He stated that he just spaced out, and didn't notice the red light as he went into the intersection.

The driver of V2 was a 46-year-old male who was talking to his two sons in the back seat about a T-ball game they were going to prior to the crash. He was taking the medication Rhinocort an unspecified antibiotic for a sinus infection, which the driver claimed did not affect his driving. This driver was considered to be fatigued due to a combination of the sinus infection and the fact that he had 5-hours of last sleep, which is also his normal amount of sleep per night. At the time of the crash he had been awake for 13.8 hours. He worked 54 hours in the past week and claimed some stress due to work. This driver wore corrective lenses for a vision condition of lazy eye. He was running behind schedule to make it to the T-ball game. There were a line of stopped cars that V1 passed on the right in the number two northbound travel lane, and these blocked the view between V1 and V2. The driver of V2 didn't see V1 until the situation was critical, and had no time to make an avoidance maneuver.

The driver of V3 was a 46-year-old male who saw the collision occur, but could not recall what color the light was. His vehicle was approaching the intersection at a slow speed when the collision occurred. Prior to the crash he was having a casual conversation with his son, who was the right front occupant. They were on their way home from school.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event assigned to this driver as a recognition factor: inattention.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle.