This two-vehicle crash took place at an intersection of a two-lane road and a five-lane roadway. The two-lane road is undivided, straight, level and controlled by a stop sign. The speed limit on the two-lane road is 64 kmph (40 mph). The five-lane road is straight and level and has no controls. The speed limit on the five-lane road is 88 kmph (55 mph). This crash occurred during dusk hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Ford F250 pickup with a flatbed trailer loaded with pump parts was stopped at the stop sign. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Chevrolet Cavalier was northbound in the second lane. V1 started from the stop sign to cross the intersection and as V1 crossed through the intersection and the front of V2 impacted the right side of V1. V1 and V2 then side slapped with V1's right to V2's left. V2 was then impacted by a piece of equipment that came off of the trailer of V1. V2 then departed the road and came to rest against a wooden stop sign. V1 and V2 were both towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a sixty-nine year old male, had been loading the trailer all day and it is unknown where this vehicle was heading. This driver does not remember much of the day or the incidents around the crash. Fatigue is considered a factor for this driver. Per medical records this driver is taking aspirin, Atenolol, Plavix and Zocor. It is unknown how often this driver has driven this vehicle or how often he drives on this roadway.

The driver of V2, a thirty-seven year old female, had just left the humane society and was heading home. This driver had been driving for twenty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 is coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over [passing through] intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to this vehicle but due to the lack of interview information was coded as: type of driver error unknown.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.