A two vehicle daytime collision occurred on a Wednesday late afternoon. The collision occurred at a four-leg intersection. The eastbound and westbound roadway is four lanes, dry, level, asphalt and has a two way left turn lane. The northbound and southbound roadway is a two lane, dry, asphalt roadway. The intersection is controlled by stop signs for the north and southbound traffic. Both roadways are designated 56 kmph (35 mph). There is sun glare for westbound traffic.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Toyota 4-runner SR5 4-door SUV with three occupants, was traveling south in the number one lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan with one occupant, was traveling west in the number two lane. As V1 entered the intersection the front of V2 struck the left side of V1. Both vehicles rotated and the left side of V1 struck the right side of V2. V1 came to rest on the northwest corner facing north. V2 impacted a break away street sign with its front plane. V2 came to rest on the south curb facing south. Both vehicles were towed with major damage. Occupants of both vehicles were transported. Witnesses to the crash stated V1 did not stop for the stop sign prior to entering the intersection. Although there was some shrubbery located in the northeast section, the driver of V1 should have still detected V2 as it approached the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 30-year-old female with 8 years of driving experience. She does not have a valid driver's license. She has an international permit from Peru. She is 4 months pregnant. She is taking vitamins. She had a passenger in the front right seat and a small child in a car seat in the right rear that was playing with a toy. They were all listening to the radio just before the crash. She said she stopped at the stop sign but did not see the other vehicle because of a tree on the northeast curb. However the witness and the driver of V2 said she never stopped at the stop sign.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked Burt did not see.

The driver of V2 is a 30 year-old male with 13 years of driving experience. He is driving a rental car because he had an accident last week in his regular vehicle. He is uncomfortable with this car because he says it's a cheap car. He rarely drives on this roadway. He was on his way to the gym. He works out 3-4 times a week for 2 hours. The sun was low on the horizon and possibly a factor for this driver. The driver detected V1 applied the brakes pre-crash and steered left but could not avoid the crash. He falsely assumed V1 would yield the right of way.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. A critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle.