A two vehicle daytime collision occurred on a Friday morning. The collision occurred on a five lane, dry, divided, asphalt highway with a downhill grade grater than 2%. The highway is designated 104 kmph (65 mph). After the first impact the highway begins to curve to the right. The number 5 lane is an HOV lane.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Toyota 4 Runner SR5 4-door sport utility with one occupant, was traveling south in the number two lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 Toyota T-100 pick up with one occupant, was traveling south in the number four lane. There is a non-contact vehicle in the number three lane next to V2. V1 veered to the right and departed the roadway. V1 impacted an asphalt curb with its right rear wheel. V1 headed southeast and rotated counter clockwise. The right side of V1 was impacted by the front of V2. V1 then rotated clockwise to impact V2's right side with V1's right front. V1 then headed southwest where it came to rest on the west shoulder facing northwest. V2 came to rest in the number three lane then drove to the right shoulder. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Neither driver was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 19 year-old female who refused the interview at the scene and was unable to be located afterwards. The driver was following her father's vehicle in front of her.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded “this vehicle traveling-off the edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason was coded “driver related factor-poor directional control”. The driver failed to maintain control of the vehicle; the vehicle veered to the right and struck the curb.

The driver of V2 is a 30 year-old male with 9 years of driving experience. He rarely drives on this roadway. The driver does not have a valid license. He said there was a vehicle on his right that stopped suddenly then V1 appeared in front of him and he did not have time to stop.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded “other -vehicle not involved in first harmful event”. A critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle.