A two-vehicle intersection type collision occurred on a Thursday morning during daylight hours when the sun was in the low horizon. The collision occurred at a four-leg intersection comprised by a north/south roadway and an east/west roadway. The north/south roadway is undivided, dry, level, straight, asphalt and consists of two lanes. The east/west roadway is undivided, dry, level, straight, asphalt and consists of five lanes. Eastbound traffic had sun glare at the time of the collision. The north/south roadway is designated a 40 kph (25 mph) zone. The east/west roadway is designated a 56 kph (35 mph) zone. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light signal that was working properly at the time of the collision.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Chevrolet Blazer, sport utility vehicle, was traveling eastbound in the number one lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 Mazda Protege, was traveling northbound in the number one lane. As V2 two waited at a red light, the light turned green. V2 entered the intersection to make a left turn. V1 entered the intersection and the front of V1 struck the left front of V2. V1 came to rest facing eastbound blocking the eastbound number one lane and the northbound number one lane. V2 came to rest facing northeast blocking the northbound number one lane and the eastbound number one lane. V1 received minor damage and was driven from the scene. V2 received moderate damage and was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 38-year-old male traveling home from a friend's house. The interview was conducted at the collision scene. He is familiar with the vehicle and drives the route daily. He was unsure as to his trip's start time. He appeared confused as to the collision time. The driver takes vitamins. The driver had his sun visor down to shield his eyes from the sun glare. The driver stated that the traffic light "changed to quickly." The driver stated that the light was green for eastbound traffic as he approached. Once he reached the intersection crosswalk, the light changed immediately to a red light. The driver applied his brakes and swerved to the right, but was unable to avoid the impact. The driver stated that V2 had been stopped behind the northbound traffic crosswalk prior to entering the intersection. The driver would not allow some of the interior photos due to "privacy" concerns.

The driver of vehicle two is a 58-year-old male traveling to the Laundromat from his home. The interview was conducted at the collision scene. He takes vitamins. He has recently had family problems on his mind. His mother is ill at a hospital in another state. His sister recently traveled to be with her and update him. The driver stated he was not thinking about his family situation while driving. It should be noted that the driver's behavior was rather strange during the interview. The driver's speech and movements were very slow. The researcher asked the driver if he had been drinking or using drugs. The driver stated that he always talks and moves in such a manner. The driver stated he was stopped approximately five seconds at the red light. Once the light turned green, he focused on a vehicle that was making a left turn from the southbound lane. He decided to enter the intersection late so as to allow a non-contact vehicle to make a left turn. The witness noted on the police report did not see the collision.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment-from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical event was coded: illegal maneuver. This driver detected V2 stopped at the crosswalk but entered the intersection against a red light.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was coded: This vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection. A critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.