The crash occurred in the southbound lane of a two-lane two-way residential street at a T-intersection, controlled by a stop sign. Southbound and northbound traffic did not have a traffic control. At the time of the crash the roadway was dry and it was daylight.

V1, a 1994 Subaru station wagon, was traveling eastbound. V2, a 2002 Chevrolet Silverado pickup, was southbound in lane 1 approaching the same T-intersection. V1 turned north at the intersection. V2's, front, struck V1's, left. Both vehicles came to rest in the roadway. The driver of V1 was injured and transported. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Subaru was driven by a 46 year-old female who stated that she was just going to the store, she doesn't normally go that way and had the day off. She stopped at the stop sign, looked both ways and proceeded to turn left. She said she never saw V2 coming from the left. She never even saw V2 when it hit her.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was coded "this vehicle turning left at intersection" and the Critical Reason for Critical Pre-crash Event was coded "driver related error of inadequate surveillance (e.g., looked but did not see)". Some factors that may have to contributed to the cause of the crash was the driver's infrequent use of that route and so unfamiliarity of that intersection, her inadequate surveillance before turning and a possible sightline restriction to the left if not enough time is taken to look for southbound traffic. A witness stated that the driver failed to stop at the stop sign.

V2, a Chevrolet Silverado was driven by a 75 year-old male who stated he was southbound on the street going about 40 kmph (25 mph). He saw a car come from the side street on his right, it was going about 8 kmph (5 mph) and it pulled right in front of him. V1 didn't stop at all at the stop sign, it looked like she was turning left. He hit the brakes - ABS, he did not steer left or right. The driver of V1 looked like she was looking straight ahead.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was coded "other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into opposite direction" and the Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was "not coded to this vehicle". A factor on this driver's part, which may have contributed to the cause of the crash, was his speed at the time of the crash, which was approximately 16 kmph (10 mph) over the speed limit.