A two-vehicle crash occurred several hours after dusk. The location is a busy inner-city four-way intersection with traffic signals and crosswalks. The roadway surface was wet bituminous. It was dark with streetlights and it was raining heavy at the time of the crash. The posted speed limit for both vehicles was 56 kmph, or 35-mph.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Oldsmobile Alero four door sedan, was traveling southbound in lane two of a five-lane arterial approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Toyota Camry four door sedan, was traveling northbound in lane four of a six-lane arterial. As V1 entered the intersection, V2 had pulled forward and started to turn left on a green arrow from northbound to go westbound. V1's front impacted the front right of V2. On impact V1 rotated counterclockwise and V2 rotated counterclockwise. V1's front then struck V2's right side. V1 was driven away from the scene; V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a 17-year-old female, was transported to a medical facility with unknown injuries. The passenger a 40-year-old male was not injured. The vehicle was not inspected and neither occupant was interviewed. The critical pre-crash event was vehicle one failed to yield the right of way to vehicle two at a controlled intersection. Even though it was dark and raining heavy there was no control loss due to the weather conditions. The critical pre-crash event for V1 is: this vehicle traveling/ crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was assigned to the driver of V1 as an unknown type of driver error. It is unknown if the driver failed to recognized the traffic control, was distracted by his passenger, made a false assumption the other driver would yield to her vehicle or made a decision to proceed through the intersection on the red light. Based on the crash vehicle dynamics, the driver of V1 became aware of V2's presence just prior to the first impact and steered left as an avoidance action. The driver had a valid driver's license; however the vehicle's ownership was registered to another person. It is unknown how much experience the driver had driving or driving V1.

The driver of vehicle two, a 61-year-old female was transported to a medical facility for treatment. Her injuries are unknown and the police report did not indicate seat belt usage. The driver was familiar with the roadway, because she travels it daily to work from her home. She was well rested and has no medical problems. Vehicle two was stopped in a left turn only lane for more than 10 seconds before the signal turned green for traffic turning left when it was struck by vehicle one. The driver of vehicle two stated she saw headlights coming southbound; thought the vehicle was going to stop. This driver's view of V1 was partially obscured due to the heavy rain. On impact vehicle two rotated counter-clockwise, was struck a second time in the right side by vehicle one and came to rest near the west crosswalk facing west. According to a witness on the police report, the driver of V2 had a green arrow when she made her turn and the driver of V1 had a red light. The Critical Pre-crash event for V2 was: other motor vehicle in lane/ traveling in opposite direction. The critical Reason for the critical event was not coded to V2.