This two-vehicle crash occurred in a traffic signal-controlled intersection. The northbound roadway is straight with a 3% uphill grade and consists of three lanes with one lane in each direction and a dedicated left-turn lane. The speed limit for this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). The east/west roadway is divided by a curbed median. The eastbound lanes are level and straight with two through lanes, a dedicated left-turn lane and a dedicated right-turn lane. The speed limit for this roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during evening hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Chevrolet Silverado pickup, was northbound in lane one, intending to go straight through the intersection. V2, a 2003 Dodge Caravan, was eastbound in lane three, approaching the same intersection. The eastbound traffic signal turned green and V2 accelerated through the intersection. In the intersection, the front of V1 struck the left side of V2. V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest in the intersection facing southwest. V2 continued to the northeast and came to rest off the roadway facing northeast. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a fifty-year-old male, was traveling from a friend's home to his own home. He was very familiar with the route and his vehicle. He takes Metoprolol for high blood pressure, aspirin, and medication for high cholesterol. He is blind in his right eye due to an accident eight years earlier. As he approached the intersection, this driver was distracted by a house on the left side that was decorated for Christmas. He was also reaching for his cigarettes, which were in his lunch box on the passenger seat. This driver was well rested when he awakened in the morning, but had been awake for fifteen hours and completed a ten-and-a-half-hour shift at work. He stated that he was felt fatigued when he left his friend's house.

The driver of V2, a sixty-five-year-old male, was traveling from the airport to his home, with three female passengers. He was well rested and comfortable with his vehicle, route and passengers. This driver takes Lipitor, Diovan and Ibuprofen for high cholesterol, high blood pressure and arthritis of his right knee. He stated that the traffic signal turned green when he was approximately a block from the intersection and he accelerated through the intersection, failing to see that V1 was not stopping for his red light.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; internal distraction." Associated factors were driver fatigue and distraction as well as the driver's vision impairment. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "not coded to this vehicle."