The crash occurred on a north/south US Highway in the northbound lanes in an area where it was intersected on the east by a secondary arterial road. The Highway had three northbound lanes on the south side of the intersection including one right turn only lane and two through lanes. There were two northbound through lanes on the north side of the intersection. There were two southbound travel lanes on the south side of the intersection and three on the north side including a left turn only lane. The northbound travel lanes were separated from the southbound side by a raised concrete median. The intersecting road had one eastbound lane, one right turn only lane and two, left turn only lanes. The eastbound lane was separated from the others by a double yellow line. This road was not physically divided. The intersection was controlled by traffic lights with no pedestrian signals. Conditions at the time of the crash were dark and unlit with heavy rain on a weekday night and a speed limit on the highway of 72kph (45mph).The highway was straight in the area of the crash, level on the south side of the intersection and had a positive two percent grade on the north side of the intersection.

Vehicle #1 was a 1988 GMC GC1 full-sized pickup truck that was turning right from the right turn only lane on the arterial road in an attempt to head north on the highway. As it was turning the back wheels of Vehicle #1 lost traction and the vehicle began to rotate clockwise while at the same time entering the left northbound lane instead of the right (intended) northbound lane. It was at this time that Vehicle #2, a 2003 Chevrolet Cavalier that was northbound on the highway in the left lane hit the back of Vehicle #1 with its front. Vehicle #1 drove to the right paved shoulder after impact and Vehicle #2 veered right after impact and also ended up on the right shoulder several meters south of Vehicle #1. Vehicle #1 was driven away and Vehicle #2 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle #1, was driven by a belted 16 year-old male who was uninjured in the crash. He stated that he was trying to turn right and the trucks rear end kicked out like it borke loose from the pavement while he was in his turn. It slung left on him and he was still tying to get it right and over into the right lane when V2 hit him from behind.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the left side of the travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was coded as too fast for conditions, heavy rain, accelerating, and turning right with a rear wheel drive vehicle. Inadequate surveillance was attributed to this vehicle as the driver stated that he did check for traffic to his left and didn't see Vehicle #2, as his view was obscured by rainfall and darkness. He also chose an unsuccessful evasive maneuver, when he realized his error he accelerated. This driver was coded with inexperienced driver. Rain and wet roads were also coded here.

Vehicle #2, was driven by a belted 21 year-old female who was also uninjured in the crash. The airbags in Vehicle #2 did not deploy. She stated that she was headed north in the left lane and V1 just flew out in front of her from her right. She swerved right but not in time and they hit. Her front to his back bumper, she went under his truck.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #2 was other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane, same direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The rain and wet roads were also coded here.