This crash took place on a two-lane undivided roadway at the entrance of a private driveway. The two-lane east/west roadway was straight, level, and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). The private driveway was a 1-lane driveway that was straight, level, and bituminous. The crash occurred on a weekday afternoon. The skies were clear and roads were dry. There was very little traffic on the roadway.

V1, a 2002 Chevrolet Trailblazer Sport Utility Vehicle, was traveling south out of the private driveway intending to make a left onto the roadway. V2, a 1998 Dodge Neon 4-door vehicle, was traveling west down the roadway intending to continue going straight. V1 was pulling out of the driveway. The driver looked and the roadway appeared to be clear and the driver inched out more into the roadway to take a better look before making the left turn. However, the roadway was not clear. V2 was continuing straight on the roadway and saw V1 pulling out of the driveway. The driver of V2 slowed down in anticipation of V1 making the left, but V1 stopped. So the driver of V2 assumed that the driver of V1 saw her and sped up to allow V1 to turn sooner. As V2 approached the driveway, V1 continued to inch out of the driveway into the roadway and they collided. Both drivers said they had no time to attempt to avoid the collision. The vehicles came to rest in V2's travel lane approximately 5 meters from point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 36-year-old female. The driver reported "C" injuries and was transported to the hospital. The driver was leaving her home intending to run a quick errand for work and then proceed to a doctor appointment 2.5 hours away (she had 2 hours and 45 minutes to make the appointment). Since this was her own personal private driveway, she drives out of the driveway multiple times a day. She has previously had 3 other accidents involving her driveway and therefore has developed a routine for coming out of her driveway. She explained that she is always facing the roadway and looks each way three times at the end of the driveway and the sidewalk. Once that is clear, she inches out to where the curb and street meet, not yet entering the roadway, and again looks to either side three times, but not before making sure that she has everything needed for the trip. For this particular trip, she needed to make sure she had money for tolls, directions, and everything needed for the doctor visit. Once she decides that the roadway is clear, she inches out into the roadway in order to get a better view of the roadway since there is a curve and shrubbery to the right of the driveway (the opposite direction that V2 was coming from). She again looks three times either way and if clear, she would turn out. It was on this final look that V1 and V2 collided. On the two other looks, the driver of V1 insisted that the road was clear, but she just did not see V2 in the roadway.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a recognition error- inadequate surveillance. The driver of V1 did believe that the roadway was clear when she looked at the roadway the previous two times, but she did not see V2 approaching. One associated factor coded to this driver was being in a hurry since the driver had just enough time to make it to the doctor appointment, depending on how long it took to run an errand for her boss and the possibility of traffic on this long trip. Other associated factors coded to this driver were inattention since she was thinking about the trip, what she may have forgotten, and her routine for coming out of her driveway, the physical conditions of high blood pressure and acid reflux disease, and the use of prescription medications to control these diseases.

V2 was driven by a 19-year-old female. She too was transported to the hospital with reported "C" injuries. This driver was on her hour-long lunch break and was going home to eat. She was traveling west on the roadway and saw V1 pulling out of her driveway. She immediately began to brake, thinking that the driver was going to turn in front her and tried to avoid a collision. However, V1 did not and instead just stopped at the curb. So the driver of V2 sped up thinking that V1 saw her and was going to wait until she passed to make the turn. As she came closer to the driveway, V1 pulled out and hit her right front. The driver of V2 reported that she did not have any time to do anything to avoid the collision.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment- from driveway turning in opposite direction." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to this driver were that this driver was under some work stress because she was recently required to work longer hours at her part-time summer job, and a false assumption of other road users actions in that she thought that V2 was going to yield the right of way and wait for her to pass.