This two-vehicle crash occurred shortly after noon during the weekday on a clear day. The crash occurred on a five-lane, uphill, dry, straight, bituminous, roadway that runs east to west. Two lanes were dedicated to eastbound traffic and two lanes were dedicated to westbound traffic. The middle lane was designated as a turning lane. This roadway intersects with a driveway of a fast-food restaurant. The private driveway supports one-way northbound traffic. This was an uncontrolled intersection (no TCD). The posted speed limit for this roadway was 56 kmph (35 mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions present at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one, a 1995 Ford F-150 pickup was stopped facing northbound in lane one of the private driveway. Vehicle two, a 1997 Jeep Cherokee was traveling eastbound in lane one. Vehicle one entered the intersection and the front of vehicle one contacted the right side of vehicle two. Vehicle two then rolled to the left about its longitudinal axis. Vehicle two rolled four-quarter turns and came to rest facing westbound in lane one. Vehicle one backed out of the roadway after the impact. Both vehicles contained one occupant. The driver of vehicle one was not injured in the crash and the vehicle was driven from the scene. The driver of vehicle two was taken to a local trauma center for incapacitating injuries and vehicle two was towed due to disabling damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 3 kmph for V1 and 3 kmph for V2.

The driver of vehicle one advised that while he was stopped waiting to make a left turn when he spilled a beverage in his vehicle. He reached to pick the beverage up and his foot came off of the brake pedal causing the vehicle to enter the intersection, striking vehicle two. The driver also complained of not sleeping well and was fatigued. He is familiar with the vehicle and the route traveled. He was on his way back to work from the restaurant.

The driver of vehicle two stated that he was traveling eastbound in lane one and the vehicle two pulled out into the intersection and struck him on the right side causing his vehicle two roll over. The driver steered left and braked in an attempt to avoid vehicle one. He works 60 hours a week and works out at a gym three days a week for an hour. At the start of the trip he stated he was fatigued. He was on his way from work to lunch. He is familiar with the vehicle and the route traveled.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded "other- leaving driveway, turning right." The critical reason was coded "internal distraction." The driver reached over to pick up a drink that had spilled over. His foot came off the brake pedal and the vehicle rolled forward into lane one. The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded "other motor vehicle encroachment-from crossing street, turning into same direction." The critical reason for this crash was not coded to vehicle two.