A single vehicle ran off roadway daytime collision occurred on a Sunday morning. The crash occurred on an interchange from a north/south interstate highway to an east/west state highway. The interchange is one-way, curves right, has an upgrade slope, and consists of two lanes. Asphalt shoulders border the north and south edges of the concrete roadway. A metal/wood guardrail borders the gore point created by the interchange and the north/south highway. South of the southern shoulder exists a raised asphalt curb. South of the curb exists a downgrade embankment that leads down a hillside. The hillside south of the southern shoulder contains chevron signs that warn of the interchange's curvature. Prior to entering the curvature exists an advisory speed sign of 64 kmph (40 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Honda Accord, two-door coupe with one occupant, was traveling westbound in the number one lane of the interchange. As V1 was negotiating the curve, it traveled across the lanes mounted the curb and the left plane of V1 contacted the guardrail. The front plane of V1 contacted a chevron warning sign located on the shoulder as it traveled down the embankment. Upon reaching the bottom of the hillside, the front of V1 contacted a bush. V1 came to rest facing northwest against the bush. V1 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1.

The driver of V1 is a 31-year-old male traveling home from his girlfriend's home. The driver suffers from depression and anxiety. He has taken several medications over the last couple of years, but has had little success controlling his mental ailments. The driver visited his doctor the day before the collision to request help from his doctor. The driver takes Xanax for his mental condition. His depression and anxiety led him to quite his job the Tuesday before the collision. The driver stated that the high-stress field of auto salesman was not helping his condition. The driver has difficulty sleeping due to insomnia. He described himself as "anxious" while driving. During the on-scene interview, the driver appeared very confused and unfocused. At times the driver did not appear to understand the early time of day. The driver stated he was traveling 96 kmph (60 mph) while negotiating the curve. The driver stated that he drove over a pothole or "boulder" and lost control. The researcher could not locate any evidence of a pothole. Prior to the collision's dispatch, the researcher heard several police dispatches describing the driver's vehicle as driving erratically.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling - off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason was assigned to V1 as a driver related factor: too fast for curve/ turn.