This three vehicle crash occurred mid-afternoon during daylight hours an intersection with seven lanes going east and westbound with a raised median separating the lanes with one left turn lane in each direction, three lanes on the north side of the intersection with one left turn lane, and four on the south with two left turn lanes. The intersection was straight, level, and bituminous with a posted speed limit is 56 kph (35 mph) in the east and westbound direction and 48 kph (30 mph) in the north and southbound direction. It was late afternoon on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was increasing due to rush-hour traffic. This intersection is controlled by tri-color traffic signals.

Vehicle one, a 2004 Chevrolet Malibu sedan driven by a 30 year-old female with one passenger, was traveling westbound in lane one. Vehicle two, a 2006 Mercury Montego sedan driven by a 40 year-old female, was in the southbound direction turning left in lane two. Vehicle three, a 2003 Toyota Highlander SUV driven by a 44 year-old female with one passenger, was southbound going through the intersection in lane one. Vehicle one was passing through the intersection when it's front contacted Vehicle two on it's left side. Vehicle two then began to rotate counterclockwise causing the back right side of vehicle two to contact the back end of vehicle three. Vehicle one continued to proceed through the intersection and pulled off the roadway and came to rest in a private parking lot. Vehicle two and vehicle three came to rest in the intersection. Vehicle three then pulled off into a nearby parking lot. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.

Vehicle one, the Chevrolet Malibu, was driven by a 30-year old female who reported no injuries. She advised that she had just come from visiting her father at a nearby nursing home and was headed back to her mother's house to prepare to catch a plane back to Arizona that night. She stated that she was going approximately 40 kph (25 mph) when she saw vehicle two, in the intersection. She stated she applied the brakes but was unable to stop in time. This vehicle was equipped with both driver and passenger airbags which did not deploy. It was also reported that seat belts were used in the crash. This vehicle was also towed from the scene. The driver of this vehicle reported getting seven hours of sleep the night before. She was also vacationing from out of town and rarely drives this car, which is her parent's.

The pre-event movement for vehicle one was coded going straight, category "this vehicle traveling, crossing over intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver related factor - illegal maneuver". Associate factor driver of vehicle one thought light was green therefore a false assumption.

The pre-event movement for vehicle two coded turning left, category other vehicle encroachment from crossing street across path. Critical reason not coded to this vehicle.

The pre-event movement for vehicle three coded going straight, category other this vehicle not involved in first harmful event.