This two-vehicle collision occurred during dusk hours on a weekend evening. The crash occurred on a straight, level stretch of a dry, three-lane, two-way, bituminous east-west roadway. In the area of the crash, the south road edge forms a T-intersection with a north-south roadway. On the main road, there is a left-turn lane for eastbound traffic at the intersection. The speed limit on the main roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph) in both directions, and there were no adverse weather conditions or roadway defects at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Mitsubishi Galant 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound in the first lane, approaching the intersection on its left. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Chevrolet full-size Tahoe SUV, was legally parked along the north curb. A non-contact vehicle was traveling eastbound in the left-turn lane, ahead of V1. As V1 approached, the non-contact vehicle moved to its right and entered the first lane. V1 veered right and lost traction, rotating slightly clockwise as it departed the road over the north curb, damaging its right front wheel. V1 continued forward and the front of V1 impacted the back of V2. Both vehicles moved ahead and came to rest on the roadside. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 20-year-old male driver of V1 reported that he was coming from his grandmother's house, where she was ill with cancer. Prior to that, he was at a friend's home, where he consumed several beers in celebration of his girlfriend's pregnancy. Earlier in the day, he received a traffic citation for failure to maintain his vehicle's registration. He stated that none of these factors was on his mind at the time of the crash, but that he was fatigued from a long day. The driver also reported that V1 is in need of brake maintenance, and that the right headlamp is out. He was driving with high beams activated to compensate. He has been driving for two years and has received no training. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related decision error, overcompensation.