This two-vehicle crash occurred at a three-way intersection that also joins with a private driveway. On the east side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a painted median and consists of a single through lane in each direction. This roadway is straight and level, with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred at night with rush hour congestion.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Dodge Caravan with one occupant, was westbound in lane one, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1991 Nissan Pathfinder with three occupants, was stopped in lane one behind a non-contact vehicle that was making a left turn into the private driveway. V1 failed to stop for traffic and the front of V1 struck the rear of V2. Both vehicles came to rest at the approximate point of impact. V1 was towed due to moderate frontal damage. V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a sixty-five-year-old female, was driving from her son's house 32-kilometers (20 miles) away to her own home. She drives this route daily and is very comfortable with her car, but admitted being distracted just before the crash. Before the crash she was holding two cell phones while driving. She had been talking with her husband on her cell phone in the right hand using the walkie-talkie feature. She looked down to put the device back into the cradle before she looked up and saw that traffic had stopped. She is very comfortable with her vehicle and was well rested. She takes several medications for her heart and stomach, which include Prilosec, Clidinium, Plavix, Lovastatin, and Atenolol.

The driver of V2, a twenty-year-old female, was driving from a day care to get some dinner with her sister and her niece. She had just acquired her vehicle that day, but said she already felt very comfortable driving it. She was well rested and drives this route daily. She is in good health and takes no medications. Prior to the collision she was having a conversation with the passenger.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related recognition factor: internal distraction.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.