This two-vehicle crash occurred mid-morning at the intersection of a six-lane roadway and a private driveway entrance. The roadway has three westbound lanes and three eastbound lanes. The lanes are separated by a center, two-way turn lane. The number one eastbound lane is a right turn only lane. The crash occurred at the point where the south driveway exits the number one eastbound turn lane. The roadways are straight and level asphalt. There was no traffic control present for either roadway at the point of impact, however there were operating traffic control signals further east. The roadways had a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). There was no posted speed limit for the driveway and no stop sign. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Dodge Ram 3500 Crew Cab pickup, driven by a 69 year-old male with two passengers was traveling westbound and stopped in the center two-way turn bay waiting to make a left turn. The traffic was heavy and backed up from a traffic signal further east. The driver stated that an oncoming driver stopped, motioned for him to turn, and proceed through a break in the traffic. The driver of V1 accelerated and attempted to make a left turn across the three eastbound lanes. Vehicle two (2), a 1997 Cadillac Deville Concourse sedan driven by a 65 year-old male was traveling east in the number one right turn lane about 40 kmph (25 mph). The driver of V2 attempted to avoid by hard braking and struck the right side of V1. The vehicles were driven into the private parking. There were no injuries to any of the three occupants of vehicle one. V1 and V2 were subsequently towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: other decision error (specified as: turned with obstructed view). Inadequate surveillance was an associative factor.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction-over left lane line. The critical reason not coded to this vehicle.