This two-vehicle collision with rollover occurred during daylight hours at the intersection of a two-way, two-lane, and straight roadway and a one-way, three-lane, and straight roadway. Roadways are dry and bituminous. Two-way traffic is controlled by a stop signs and flashing red light. Posted speed limit for two-way roadway is 40 kmph (25 mph) and 48 kmph (30 mph) for one-way roadway. There were no adverse weather condition present.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1989 Chevrolet Astro mini van occupied by an unrestrained 17-year-old male driver and a 15-year-old female restrained front passenger, was traveling west in lane one with the intention of going straight after stopping. V1 driver, a high school student, was headed home after having left parking lot minutes prior to collision. Driver stated that he was unrestrained and was in the process of putting on his seat belt while on approach to intersection driver failed to see oncoming V2 approaching from right. V 1 was struck on right side as it entered intersection and rolled onto left side (1/4 roll) before coming to final rest in lane one of eastbound traffic lane facing northwest. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle two V2), a 2000 Daewoo Leganza sedan occupied by a restrained 19-year-old female driver, was traveling south in lane three with the intention of going straight. V 2 driver was going to the bank after having left her home five minutes prior to collision. V 2 driver noticed V 1 stop and then proceed into intersection. V 2 driver attempted to avoid collision by applying brakes and steering right. V 2 front bumper contacted V 1 right side and came to final rest in lane two facing southwest in the middle of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage.

The pre-event movement for V 1 coded stopped in traffic lane, category this vehicle traveling crossing over passing through intersection. Critical reason driver related factor "internal distraction" (driver putting on seat belt). Associate factor for V 1 was inadequate surveillance.

The pre-event movement for V 2 coded going straight, category other vehicle encroachment from crossing street across path. Critical reason not code to this vehicle.