This crash occurred on a straight, level, but icy roadway. The posted speed limit was 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred in the early afternoon on a weekday. There were no adverse weather conditions.

Vehicle #1 was a 1995 Chevrolet Monte Carlo that was driven by a 17-year old female. The driver of V1 had backed out of her driveway and started traveling west down the street. The driver had only driven a short distance when she skidded off the road to the right. The front right of her vehicle contacted a phone box and a utility pole. After contacting the box and pole, the vehicle rotated clockwise and came to final rest facing northeast on the north curb of the roadway. The driver and her baby that was in a child restraint seat were not injured. The vehicle was towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1 reported that she was in good health and was not taking any medications. She also stated that she does wear corrective lenses for reading only and was not wearing them at the time of the crash. The driver stated that as she was driving on the icy roadway, she felt a push or nudge to her vehicle and that caused her to drive off the side of the road and contact the utility pole. After she drove off the roadway she stated she looked in her rear view mirrors and looked to see that her child was OK. Then she stated that she looked to her left to see a large pick-up truck leaving the crash scene. The driver reported that she did not have a cell phone with her so she walked back to her home to call the police and her mother. After waiting for some time and the police did not come, her mother took her and her baby to a doctor appointment to which she had been going at the time of the crash. She said that she later called the police again and they came two hours later.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as a poor directional control (e.g., failing to control vehicle with skill ordinarily expected). Associated factors coded to this driver include the icy road conditions, driver inexperience, and inattention. The police reported that the driver had no valid driver's license, only a permit. It was believed that there was no contact between V1 and any other vehicle prior to the crash. There was no physical evidence showing contract with another vehicle. It was believed that the driver panicked as the vehicle started to slide and she did not know how to keep the vehicle under control.