This is a two vehicle crash that occurred a little past noon during daylight hours in the southbound lanes of an 8 lane roadway divided by a raised concrete median. This crash occurred within the intersection of a two way, 5 lane roadway. The intersection was controlled by operating, overhead tri-color traffic signals. The posted speed limit for north/south traffic was 72 kph (45 mph). The posted speed limit for east/west traffic was 65 kph (40 mph). the roads were dry and the sky was clear. The traffic was fairly congested with a mixture of heavy truck and vehicular traffic.

Vehicle one (V 1), a 2000 Ford Mustang 2 door driven by a 21 year-old female was traveling south in the number two lane, approaching the intersection. V-1 approached the intersection on a green light, it changed to red, and the driver continued through the intersection at a speed of about 56 kph (35 mph). Vehicle two (V-2), a 2003 Nissan Altima sedan driven by a 52 year-old male was stopped in the westbound, number two lane while waiting for a red light to change. The light changed as V 2 entered the intersection it was struck in the right side near the right rear wheel by V-1. The impact caused V-2 to spin rapidly in a clockwise direction, cross the curb on the northwest corner going backwards, with the rear wheels, and come to a rest facing south in an open, sandy terrain. V-1 after impact swerved slightly to the right, continued forward, and crossed the curb on the southwest corner. V-1 then continued traveling southwest, went down an embanked area, crossed a concrete culvert, went up a small embankment onto level, sandy terrain. V-1 came to rest facing southwest approximately 100 meters southwest of the corner. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V 1 was using a hand held cell phone at the time of the crash talking to a friend. She reported that she thought she had a green light, looked both ways, did not see V-2 and entered the intersection at a speed of about 56 kph (35 mph). The Pre Event Movement for V-1 was coded going straight The Critical Pre Crash Event this vehicle traveling, crossing over passing through intersection. Critical reason driver related factor "illegal maneuver". (disregard of traffic control device).

The Pre Event Movement for V-2 was coded going straight, category other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path. Critical reason not coded to this vehicle.