The crash occurred on an east/west secondary arterial road at an interstate on/off ramp intersection. The east and westbound lanes were separated by a grass median. The arterial road had two eastbound and two westbound lanes on the east side of the intersection. There were three eastbound (the far left being a left turn lane to go north on the interstate) and two westbound lanes on the west side of the intersection. The westbound approach to the intersection had a slight curve right (north) with a radius measuring 469meters and had a 2% grade. The eastbound approach to the intersection was straight and almost level with a negligible negative grade. The intersection was controlled by traffic lights with no pedestrian signal. Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight and dry late on a weekday morning with a speed limit of 56kph (35mph).

Vehicle #1 was a 2002 GMC Envoy traveling east on the arterial road in the far left, left turn only lane. When Vehicle #1 turned left (without stopping) and was crossing westbound traffic intent on heading north on the interstate it was struck on its right side by Vehicle #2, a 2001 Nissan Frontier. The Nissan had been stopped at the light in the right westbound lane when its light turned green and it proceeded to go. Vehicle #1 then came across Vehicle #2's front and Vehicle #2 struck it with its front. Vehicle #1 spun about eighty degrees clockwise and came to rest on the paved shoulder at the northwest corner of the intersection. Vehicle #2 came to rest facing west in its original travel lane adjacent to Vehicle #1. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle #1, was driven by a 54 year-old belted female who was uninjured in the crash. No airbags deployed in Vehicle #1. The right front belted passenger was transported to an area trauma center for treatment of possible injuries and the infant that was located in the right side of the second row in a child seat was not injured in the crash. The driver stated that she was headed eastbound and had a green arrow so she kept going and made her left turn to got on the interstate when V2 hit her right side with his truck.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was this vehicle traveling, turning left at an intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a misjudgment of gap and speed. This was coded because the driver of Vehicle #1 saw Vehicle #2 coming and still attempted the maneuver. The driver of Vehicle #1 was coded as being inattentive and talking on the cell phone at the time of the crash.

Vehicle #2, was driven by a belted 73 year-old male who was uninjured in the crash. His airbags did deploy as a result of the crash. He stated that he was stopped at the red light and was waiting for it to turn green. When it turned green he started to go and that is when V1 topped the hill ahead of him and V1 just turned across in front of him like he wasn't even there. He could see her on a cell phone right through her windshield. She probably had a green arrow until they all turned solid green but she tried to make it anyway was his guess. Anyway, he tried to hit his brakes but it was too late.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #2 was other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction, over the left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The only contributing factor coded to this vehicle was that he assumed the driver of Vehicle #1 would yield the right of way.