This three-vehicle crash occurred during the evening hours on a Wednesday. The location was an interstate highway with positive barriers in a rural area. The roadway was a level five-lane road with paved shoulders and guardrails on both sides. The weather was clear, it was dry and it was dark with lighted street lamps. The posted speed limit for all three vehicles was 97 kmph (60 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Saturn Ion four-door coupe with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Dodge Caravan with four occupants, was slowing for traffic also in lane one in front of V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 1999 Chevrolet Tahoe with four occupants was pulling a trailer. It was traveling northbound in the HOV lane. The driver of V1 was following too closely and when V2 decelerated because of traffic ahead, the front right of V1 struck the back left of V2. Prior to impact the driver of V1 braked and steered left in an attempt to avoid the collision. After impact V2 came to rest in lane two and then moved to the right shoulder. At impact with V2, V1 initiated a clockwise yaw as it crossed the northbound lanes when the right side of V1 struck the left side of V3. V1 was then re-directed across the southbound lane where it came to rest against the guardrail on the east side of the roadway. The driver of V3 stopped the vehicle on the left shoulder. V1 and V3 were towed from the scene. The driver of V1 was transported to a local trauma center. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 39 year-old female, was not familiar with the road and is familiar with the vehicle. She was on her way to visit her children and by mistake got onto the interstate northbound instead of southbound. When she realized her mistake, she moved to the outside lane intending to take the next exit to turn around. She was well rested and not in a hurry. She has been diagnosed with sleep apnea but stated it does not interfere with her ability to drive. She stated she was traveling at a speed of 72 kmph (45 mph) and was following at a distance she estimated as approximately 20 feet (6 meters). This driver was following too closely to react to the change of speed of V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane-traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: following too closely to respond to unexpected actions of others.

The driver of V2 is a 53 year-old female who was not interviewed. There were four occupants in the vehicle. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. A critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle.

The driver of V3 is a 24 year-old female who was not interviewed. There were four occupants in the vehicle. V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. A critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle.