A two-vehicle collision occurred a couple hours after noon on a Sunday on a rural road in late October. The road is cut into the side of a mountain with large overhanging trees. The roadway is a two way, two lane, undivided roadway with bituminous paving. The pre-crash roadway for vehicle one (V1) is a curve to the right and a super elevation of 6% with a downhill grade of 5%. The pre-crash roadway for vehicle two (V2) is an 11% uphill grade, and this section of roadway is straight approaching a curve to the left. The paved shoulder is 1.4 meters (4.6 feet) wide with a W-beam guardrail preventing errant vehicles from going down the mountainside. It was raining heavily at the time and the road surface was covered with leaves that that fallen onto the road surface from the overhead trees.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Mercury Sable 4 door with one occupant, was headed west negotiating a curve to the right. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Volvo V70R Station Wagon with one occupant, was traveling south in lane one. As V1 entered the curve to the right, the vehicle went out of control as it initiated a clockwise yaw and crossed the centerline of the roadway. The driver of V2 saw V1 out of control and steered V2 to the right onto the shoulder and close to the guardrail. The front left corner of V1 impacted the front left corner of V2. V1 then traveled across the roadway and came to rest facing north on the east shoulder. V2 rotated counter clockwise and the right side struck the guardrail. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Neither driver was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 16 year-old female whose pre-crash factors are unknown, as she was not interviewed due to parental refusal. This driver has limited experience, it was raining and leaves on the roadway reduced the friction between the tires/pavement interface.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle loss of control due to- traveling too fast for conditions. The critical reason was coded as a driver related factor: too fast for curve/turn.

The driver of V2 was a male around the age of 30 years, who is in good health, with no hearing or sight restrictions. He takes Prilosec for acid reflux, and he does experience work related stress due to the level of responsibility he has, however he claims that neither would be considered a factor in the collision. He stated that as soon as the other vehicle appeared from around the corner it was already out of control. He was on his way home from the home depot, and he is very familiar with the vehicle and roadway. He pulled as far over to the right shoulder as possible.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction-over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.