This crash occurred on a two-lane, two-way road that ran east/west in a rural/residential area. There were no physical dividers. The road was curved slightly left (if westbound) with a radius of 1250 meters. The north side of the road did not have any shoulder. There was a steep negative grade that fell away from the north side of the road with a grade at the run off road point of -63.3%. Woods also bordered the north side of the road. Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight with overcast skies, and wet pavement from a recent rain. The crash occurred just after noon on a weekday. The speed limit was 72 kmph (45 mph).

V1, a 1991 Honda Accord with one occupant, was westbound on the road when it departed the right roadside and while traveling parallel to the road impacted a tree with its front while apparently airborne. V1 then fell to the ground and came to rest facing west within a few meters of impact. V1 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1, a 17-year-old belted female, was transported with non-incapacitating injuries to a local hospital from the scene. Her puppy, which was riding in the right front position, was killed in the crash. The driver stated that something (she could not identify what) caught her attention off to her left and her car left the road when she attempted to track what she saw by turning her head to the left. She on her way to work at the time and was looking forward to showing the dog to friends as it was a recent gift.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason was a driver related factor, an external distraction. The drivers' vision was impaired at the time, as she was not wearing her glasses. The driver had an argument with her mother earlier in the day, which had not been resolved by the time of the crash. The dog was captured as an internal distraction because this researcher believes that the dog presented somewhat of a distraction to the driving task. Inexperienced driver along with poor directional control were also attributed to this vehicle along with a vehicle related factor being that the vehicle was out of alignment and pulled to the right. The driver and her parents knew this before the crash.