The crash occurred on the northbound number one lane of a five-lane roadway. There are two northbound and two southbound lanes separated by a two way left turn lane. This was a straight, level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). It was a mid morning on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was light at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Ford Windstar with six occupants, was traveling northbound in lane one. V1 is used as a Taxi. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Chrysler Sebring 4dr with one occupant, was also traveling northbound in lane one in front of V1 and was slowing down to make a right turn into a used car lot. The front of V1 struck the rear of V2. The impact forced V2 to travel off the right side of the roadway before coming to rest approximately 10 meters (32.8 feet) north of the entrance to the used car lot. V1 came to rest within the boundaries of the entrance in lane one facing north. V1 was towed from the scene; V2 was driven. Neither driver claimed any injuries. The second row left passenger in V1, a 24-year old male, second row middle passenger, a 63-year old female, and the third row middle passenger, a 30-year old male, did not report any injuries. The first row right passenger, a 65-year old female and the third row left passenger, a 63-year old male were transported from the scene by EMS for pain to the neck, shoulder and back areas. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

A 44-year old male drove V1. The driver stated that he was traveling behind V2. He said that V2 stopped suddenly and was going to make a right turn. He said that he attempted to avoid V2 by hitting the brakes but the vehicle did not stop in time. He said that he was looking straight ahead the entire time before the crash. The driver said that he just picked up five passengers about 20 minutes before the crash. He had been driving for about 11.2 kilometers (7 miles) and was taking the passengers about 1.6 kilometers (1 mile) from the crash site. The driver stated he was traveling approximately 48 kmph (30 mph or 44 fps) and was trailing V2 at a distance of 6 meters (20 feet). At this speed and following distance, the driver could not react in time to the change in velocity of V2 to avoid the crash.

The Critical Pre Crash event for V1 was coded "other motor vehicle in lane-traveling in same direction while decelerating". The Critical Reason was coded "driver related factor-following too closely to respond to unexpected actions". The driver was also probably not paying attention to the driving task

A 71-year old male who reported no injuries drove V2. He said that he was traveling northbound in the number one lane and was slowing down to make a right turn into the used car lot. He did not see V2 prior to the crash. He was traveling about 24 kmph (15 mph) when struck from behind. The driver had been driving for about 30 minutes prior to the crash and was on his way home after he stopped at the used car lot.

The Critical Pre Crash Event for V2 was coded "this vehicle traveling-this vehicle decelerating". The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor for this driver could be that the driver had arthritis in the legs. The driver needed the assistance of a walker on scene.