This crash occurred on a two-lane, east/west roadway on a weekday evening. There were shoulder lanes on either side of the street that were used legally for parking and there were also trolley tracks for an east/westbound trolley that travels this roadway. The posted speed limit for this roadway was 40 Kmph (25 mph), and its profile was level and straight. Though it was a relatively clear evening, this road was very dark. The asphalt surface was dry and free from any defect.

Vehicle 1 (V1), a 2001 Chrysler 300M was traveling west in lane one. Vehicle 2, a 2001 Honda Accord was traveling west in front of V1. Vehicle 3, a 2001 Pontiac Bonneville was heading east and backing into a parking spot. The V1 driver picked up a friend at the train station and on his way back to his residence, he passed out behind the wheel. The driver continued straight in lane one and the left front of V1 struck the right back of V2. V2 steered to the right in an attempt to pull over, and out of the way of V1, meantime the passenger of V1 grabbed the wheel in an effort to steer the car back on the road. As this was happening V1's right front sideswiped the back left of V2. Upon striking V2 a second time, V1 crossed the double yellow lane lines and entered the eastbound lane and struck V3 who was in the process of backing into a parking spot. At final rest V1 was partially in the left travel lane as well as in the left shoulder lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, a 2001 Chrysler 300M driven by a 51 year-old male who stated he had plans for the evening with a "social acquaintance". He had left his residence and driven to a train station to pick his friend up and on his way back to his residence, he passed out behind the wheel.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V1 was: “other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with lower steady speed”. The Critical Reason for Critical Pre-Crash Event was coded: “driver related factor, heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act”. During the driver survey, he stated this was the first time that such a thing happened, and that his passing out behind the wheel must have been due to complications with his "Type I diabetes". The driver's statement that he has Type I diabetes was inconsistent with the medical reports as well as the fact that the driver controls his diabetes without the need for insulin. Review of the records from fire and rescue showed that the patient was indeed unconscious when first evaluated at the scene and not "asleep". (Driver did not respond to painful stimuli.) Fire and rescue administered 0.4 milligrams of Narcan (an antidote used to counteract any overdose due to an opiate) and the medical note stated that the driver "improved". (This could have been a coincidence.) The notes from emergency room staff stated that the patient was "confused" but otherwise there were no abnormal findings. The driver also reported to the police and officials at the hospital that his passenger was his wife. This was inconsistent with what he stated in his survey. No laboratory tests were available for review and therefore it remains unknown whether or not this driver passed out due to his general diabetes or for some other reason. The patient was discharged from the emergency room with a diagnosis of "concussion" and was advised to take acetaminophen for pain and return if he developed dizziness, nausea or vomiting. The medication that he is taking is for Type II diabetes, he did not tell the hospitial about this medication.

V2, a 2001 Honda Accord driven by a 42 year-old male who stated he was traveling from a visit at his mother's home and was on his way to a friend's house. The driver stated that he was driving westbound in lane 1 when his vehicle was struck in its rear by V1. He stated that his car was pushed forward and through an intersection and he tried to steer to the right shoulder lane to clear the way for V1. The driver of V2 stated that he couldn't understand why the driver of V1 was driving as he was. While attempting to pull over, V2 was struck again by V1 in the back. The driver of V2 acknowledged that he had drunk as many as 4 beers in the previous 2 to 3 hours. There was no physical evidence present at the crash scene that suggested that this driver contributed in anyway to this crash. The driver also acknowledged that he shouldn't drive when he has had more than 1 or 2 beers.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V2 was: “other motor vehicle in lane - traveling in same direction with higher speed”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this driver. Although the driver of V2 stated that he was unaware of V1's presence behind him, this did not warrant the coding of any inadequate surveillance factors. Associated factors coded to the driver of V2 were: listening to the radio while driving and consuming alcohol prior to driving. Driver was not injured.

V3, a 2001 Pontiac Bonneville driven by a 21 year-old female was reportedly in lane 1, and backing up into a parking space in the parking lane. When the researcher arrived on-scene, this driver was no longer present. A number of attempts to contact her were made, but apparently the driver did not want to participate in this study. According to the driver of V2, after V1 struck V2 for the second time, V1 continued into oncoming traffic and hit V3.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V3 was: “not involved in the first harmful event”. No associated factors were coded to either V3 or its driver. Driver was not injured.