This single vehicle crash occurred late in the afternoon on a rainy day. The crash occurred on a four-lane, asphalt roadway that was wet at the time of the crash. The roadway runs east/west, curves to the north with a radius of 447 meters (1466 feet) and a super elevation of 7%. It has an uphill grade to the 8 % going west. The two eastbound lanes are divided from the two westbound lanes by an 18 meter (59 feet) wide depressed sod median. The westbound lanes are elevated above the eastbound lanes. There are no improved asphalt shoulders. The posted speed limit of this road was 105 kmph (65 mph). There was a caution light present in the curve but was located ahead of the crash scene. The road was wet and it was raining lightly at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Dodge Avenger was traveling eastbound in lane two. Vehicle one departed the roadway to the left and entered the median where the front of the vehicle struck a ditch. The vehicle continued across the median coming to rest facing northwest partially in eastbound lane two. The driver of V1 and only occupant was not injured in the crash and the vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 113 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1 one was a 30-year-old male. He stated that a vehicle encroached into his lane forcing him off of the road to the left. He also stated that there was standing water on the roadway at the time of the crash. The witness to the crash stated that V1 passed him at a high rate of speed; 80-85 mph (129-137 kmph) and the vehicle departed the roadway to the left while negotiating a curve. The witness also advised that there was no vehicle that forced V1 off of the road. The police reported a BAC of 0.18 for the driver of V1. This test was administered roughly two hours after the crash. The driver also stated that he was very unhappy with his job and was traveling home from his friend's/coworker's house were he had been drinking beer since leaving work three hours prior to the crash.

The critical event for this crash was coded: this vehicle control loss due to: traveling too fast for conditions. The critical reason for this crash was coded: driver related error, too fast for curve. Aggressive driving (speeding) was coded as well as the driver's alcohol use, wet roads, and job related stress were considered as contributing factors in this crash. The driver also stated he braked as an avoidance maneuver which probably initiated the vehicle running off the outside of the curve.