A two vehicle daytime collision occurred at during late morning hours on a weekday. The collision occurred at the intersection of a two-way five-lane road with a one-way four-lane road that turns into an interstate on-ramp. The intersection is controlled by a three-color traffic signal with pedestrian signals. Both roads are paved with bituminous asphalt. The speed limit for the both roads is 48 kmph (30 mph). At the time of the crash the sun was ¼ height to the south, and the westbound traffic was in shadow from the interstate overpass. Westbound traffic has a downhill grade of -16%, and southbound traffic is relatively level.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1993 Chevrolet Suburban with only a driver, was headed south on a one-way street in lane three. Vehicle 2 (V2), a 2003 GMC Sonoma pickup with only a driver, was stopped at the traffic signal facing west. When the light for V2 turned green, V2 proceeded into the intersection. V1 did not stop for the red light, and the front of V1 struck V2 on the right side towards the front. V1 and V2 both deflected, and side-slapped. The vehicles then rolled together into the southwest corner of the intersection, where they both came to rest. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event assigned to this driver is a driver recognition factor: external distraction. The driver of V1, a 50-year-old male, stated that he was paying attention to the exit signs, as he had gotten off of the interstate too early. He was looking to get back onto the interstate and take another exit further down. Due to the position of the sun, the traffic signal was not obvious in being red. However, other vehicles traveling behind V1 stopped for the red light without a problem, which indicates that it was visible. This driver was pre-occupied looking at the sign instead of observing the traffic controls for the intersection. At the time of the crash the driver had been driving for about an hour and it was the first time he had been on that road.

The critical pre-crash event was coded: other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle. The driver of V2, a 25-year-old male, stated that he had hung up his cell phone before stopping at the red light, and that he was stopped at the red light for about 20 seconds. When the light turned green, the driver of V2 proceeded into the intersection. He saw V1 approaching out of the corner of his eye, but did not have enough time to react before V1 impacted V2.