This two-vehicle crash shortly after noon on a dry, straight, six-lane, state highway with no controls. The highway runs north and south at the location of the crash and has two through lanes in each direction with the middle lane as a left turn lane for both directions. The speed limit on the highway is 56 kmph (35 mph) and there were no adverse weather conditions at the time.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Ford Escort, was southbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Toyota Camry, was also southbound in lane two at some distance behind V1. V1 initiated a U-turn and entered lane two where the front of V2 struck the left front of V1. After the impact, V1 one rotated clockwise and came to rest in lane one facing southwest. After the impact, V2 crossed the roadway and ran off the east side of the road. Vehicle one came to rest on its wheels facing southeast in a field. V1 was towed from the scene due to the left front wheel torn off. V2 was towed from the scene due to moderate frontal damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 24 year-old female who was on her way to take a test for work. There was also a 24 year-old female passenger. This was her first time on this roadway and was somewhat uncomfortable with driving the vehicle since it was not her car. This driver made the wrong turn from a side street and was in the process of making a U-turn. She claimed she turned her head to check for traffic before initiating the turn. The driver was also somewhat fatigued since she only had 3 hours of sleep the night before instead of her normal 8 hours.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line of left side of travel lane. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). Driver claimed she turned her head to check for traffic and failed to use the rear view mirrors.

The driver of V2 is an 82 year-old male who drives the route daily and is familiar with the vehicle. He had by-pass surgery 3 years earlier and walks a treadmill for 10 minutes every day. He was on his way home from the grocery store at the time of the collision. He saw V1 pre-crash but did not attempt any evasive maneuvers.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from adjacent lane (same direction)-over right lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.