This two-vehicle crash occurred in a traffic signal-controlled, T-type intersection. The roadway west of the intersection is level and divided by a jersey barrier. There are three eastbound lanes that curve to the left and the speed limit for this roadway is 64 kmph (40 mph). The roadway east of the intersection is straight, undivided, with two lanes in each direction and a left-turn lane. The speed limit for this roadway is 80 kmph (50 mph). There is a north/south roadway on the south side of the east/west roadway. This crash occurred during daylight hours with a complete cloud cover. The roadways were wet at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Pontiac Sunfire, was eastbound in lane two, passing through the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Pontiac Bonneville, was westbound in lane three, turning left (south) at the intersection. In the intersection, the front of V1 struck the right side of V2. Both vehicles rotated and came to rest in the southeast corner of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a fifty-five-year-old male, was not interviewed. No information is available for this driver. The police report indicated that this vehicle ran a red light. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V2, a twenty-four-year-old male, was traveling with a twenty-five-year-old male. Neither of these individuals was interviewed. No information is available for this driver. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions. Based on the police report it is deduced that the driver of V2 commenced with his turn assuming that V2 would stop for its red light and yield the right of way to him.