This crash occurred in the northbound lane of a two-lane, two-way roadway that is divided by a painted centerline stripe. This is a straight, level and bituminous roadway, with a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). It was early morning on a weekday, the road was dry and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Buick Regal, was northbound in the northbound lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1990 John Deere tractor, towing a large trailer, was northbound in front of V1, mostly on the northbound right shoulder. As V1 attempted to pass V2, the right front struck the left back of V2's trailer. The right front of V1 then struck the left rear tire of the trailer. V1 rotated clockwise and the front struck and tore off the left front tire of V2. V1 then continued to travel to the northeast, rolled to the left six quarter-turns departing the right side of the road. The driver of V1 was ejected during the rollover. A fire ignited in the engine compartment as V1 came to final rest on its top facing southeast. V2 came to rest on the right shoulder just north of the initial impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a seventy-seven-year-old male, sustained fatal injuries in the crash. His daughter stated that he was on his way to work, but she knew very few details relating to the crash. A witness at the scene, who was traveling directly behind V1, reported that the driver of V1 was talking on a cell phone at the time of the first impact. This information indicates that the driver was conscious prior to the collision. A BAC test was done with a result of "0." There was no indication of pre-impact avoidances actions taken by the driver of V1.

The driver of V2, a thirty-nine-year-old male, was traveling at approximately 16 kmph (10 mph) and had moved to the right so that the majority of his vehicle was on the right shoulder to allow other vehicles to pass. He was well rested, familiar with his vehicle and his route and was on his way to a job site. He did not notice V1 until he "felt a bump" and then saw vehicle one passing him while rotating and then rolling over.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane,traveling in same direction with lower steady speed. There were no environmental or vehicle factors for V1, so the critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: type of driver error unknown. It could not be determined if the type of critical reason for V1 was a recognition, decision or performance factor.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.