The crash occurred in the westbound lane of a two-lane, two-way residential roadway. There are no roadway markings. There is one westbound lane and one eastbound lane. There is also parallel parking on both sides of the roadway. This was a straight bituminous asphalt roadway with a negative 3% pre-crash grade. It was evening on a weekday and the road was wet and it was raining hard. It was dark with no illumination. The speed limit for this roadway is 32 kmph (20 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Chevrolet Malibu four door with one occupant, was traveling westbound in the first lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Jeep Cherokee was illegally parked and unoccupied facing east in the westbound parking lane. V1 was traveling west and hit a pool of water in the roadway. V1 began rotating in a slight clockwise motion and the front of V1 struck the right side of V2. V1 rotated clockwise to final rest in the center of the roadway facing east/northeast. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. At impact with V1, V2 was pushed into the yard where it's right side impacted a small tree. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.

A 17-year old female who reported no injuries drove V1, the Chevrolet Malibu. She stated she was driving to a friend's house and hit a pool of water and lost control of her vehicle. She stated that she was driving about 48 kmph (30 mph) when she hit the water in the roadway.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle loss of control due to- poor road conditions. The critical reason for the critical event was a driver related factor: too fast for conditions. Driver one was admittedly driving over the speed limit during heavy rain with water collecting on the roadway. This driver is a full time student and has only been driving for one year. Her mother indicated that this was her fourth crash in that year. Associated factors are too fast for conditions and low tire pressure. The tires were under-inflated by a good margin of recommended tire pressure where the vehicle would have a tendency to hydroplane. It was raining hard at the time.