This two-vehicle crash occurred at an intersection of an urban 5-lane undivided roadway and a private driveway. The 5-lane roadway had two lanes eastbound and two lanes westbound with a two-way left turn lane in between. The westbound approach was 3 percent uphill and straight, and the southbound driveway approach was 7 percent uphill, straight, and contained parking spaces. The private driveway entrance was 8 meters wide and had no traffic control device at the intersection. There were curbs and sidewalks present along the east/west roadway. The posted speed limit was 72 kmph (45 mph). Conditions were dawn and clear. The setting was morning hours on a weekday.

Vehicle one was a 1997 Ford Explorer compact utility vehicle with two occupants traveling westbound in lane two. Vehicle two was a 1998 Honda Accord four-door sedan with one occupant traveling south on the private driveway. The non-contact vehicle was an unknown make and model yellow school bus traveling westbound in lane one. The school bus was stopped in lane one due to morning traffic. The driver of V2 wanted to make a left hand turn from the driveway to travel east. The school bus driver waved V2 into westbound traffic. V2 successfully crossed lane 1 but was struck as it attempted to cross lane 2. The front plane of V1 contacted the left plane of V2. The collision caused V2 to spin counterclockwise, leaving 5.75 meters (19 feet) of yaw marks. V2 came to final rest facing east in the two-way left turn lane. V1 traveled 15 meters (49 feet) after impact and came to final rest facing west in the two-way left turn lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

V1, the Ford Explorer, was driven by a 40-year-old male who was transported from the scene with a bad headache. He reported being on his way to work at an elementary school, where his daughter was also a student. He was driving in lane two at 56 kmph (35 mph), when V2 pulled out into his path from the right. He thinks he hit the brakes, but really couldn't recollect the crash event very well. His vehicle was towed due to front end damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was other motor vehicle encroachment from driveway, turning into opposite direction. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor was this driver being in a hurry. Although he wasn't speeding, he was late for start of work/school. He was also driving with the radio on. He couldn't remember if he was talking to his daughter prior to the crash. The school bus stopped in lane 1 obstructed the driver of V1's view of V2.

V2, the Honda Accord, was driven by a 16-year-old female who refused medical treatment after the crash. She reported being on her way to school when the crash occurred. Due to traffic on the east/west road, she waited to make her left turn for more than 10 seconds. She said that a school bus driver was being nice and was allowing her to cut across westbound lanes, so she could get into the center left turn lane and eventually merge into eastbound traffic. As she accelerated across westbound lanes, she tried to look beyond the bus, to check traffic in lane 2, but couldn't see anything and proceeded. As she accelerated to cross lane 2, she was struck by V1 on her left side. Her vehicle was towed due to disabling left side damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason was coded as an "other" decision error - turned with obstructed view. The driver turned left without properly seeing her way clear. Associated factors coded to the driver of V2 include being in a hurry to get to school (she was late), a sight restriction caused by the non-contact school bus, and driver inexperience. She only had her driver's license for 7 months. She also reported having a recent eye surgery to correct farsightedness, but she still required glasses and prescription eye-drops.