This single vehicle crash occurred in a rural area on a four-lane asphalt roadway with an extended median. The two-northbound lanes curve left then straighten out and are uphill. The speed limit for the area is 104 kph (65 mph) and there is a warning sign present prior to the crash location warning to watch for animals for the next 20 miles. The crash occurred during daylight with no adverse weather or road conditions present.

Vehicle one, a 2005 Ford Freestyle was northbound in the first lane with the cruise control set at 112 kph (70 mph). Vehicle one departed the road to the left. The front left tire impacted a large rock. The front right tire then impacted a large rock. Vehicle one then drove through a large bush with its front plane. The right plane of vehicle one impacted by the tree. Vehicle one came to rest in the median. Vehicle one was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 113 kmph for V1.

The driver of vehicle one, a fifty-eight year old female was returning home from a doctor's appointment in another town. The driver stated that as she was traveling she dropped the lit end of a cigarette onto the passenger floorboard while trying to pour soda with her right hand into a cup located in the cup holder of the center console of first row. The driver then tried to reach the lit end of the cigarette before it burned a hole into the carpet. It was at this time that the vehicle crossed both northbound lanes and departed the left road edge. The driver stated that she panicked when she realized she was off the road and that she did no braking or steering but finally turned off the engine to stop the vehicle. This driver suffers from asthma and emphysema and has a speech impairment caused by a stroke suffered a year before. She uses an inhaler and receives breathing treatments. This driver is hyperopic but was not wearing corrective lenses. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a monthly basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as "this vehicle traveling: off the edge of the road on the left side”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as "driver recognition error, internal distraction".