This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged intersection. Both roadways are undivided, two-lane, level and straight. The speed limit on the north/south roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). The speed limit on the east/west roadway is 40 kmph (25 mph). There are stop signs, with signs that read, "caution - cross traffic does not stop," controlling the eastbound and westbound traffic at this intersection. This crash occurred during daylight hours and it was raining.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Ford F150 pickup, was southbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1003 Chevrolet Cavalier, was westbound in lane one. V2 stopped briefly at the stop sign and then proceeded into the intersection. The front of V1 struck the right side of V2. The vehicles rotated and the left side of V1 struck the right side of V2. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-five-year-old male, was traveling from his home to pick up his son. He was well rested, healthy and familiar with his vehicle. He drives this route daily. This driver takes insulin to control his diabetes.

The driver of V2, a twenty-one-year-old female, was traveling from her work place and was on her way home. She stated that she was making a delivery to a customer on her way home and was looking for the address. She further stated that she did stop at the stop sign but failed to look for traffic before she entered the intersection. This driver was well rested, healthy and familiar with her vehicle. She drives on this roadway daily.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was "not coded to this vehicle."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "driver related factor; external distraction."