This two-vehicle rear end crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a six-lane undivided roadway. There were two through lanes and one left turn lane in the northbound and southbound directions. This was a straight, downhill, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 65 kmph (40 mph). It was late afternoon on a weekday; the road was dry and the sky was cloudy. The traffic flow was congested.

Vehicle two (V2), a Dodge Ram pick up with four occupants, was pulling a trailer. The driver was stopped in northbound lane two waiting for the traffic control signal to turn green. Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Ford Crown Victoria with two occupants was traveling northbound in lane two behind V2. The front of V1 struck the back of the trailer. At impact both vehicles moved forward and came to rest in lane two facing north. V1 was towed from the scene while V2 was driven. None of the occupants were injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

A 19- year old female drove V1, the Ford Crown Victoria. She stated that she was on her way from home to the hospital to drop off her sister for work. She stated that she was talking to her sister while coming up behind V2 when the airbags went off. She stated she was going approximately 48 kmph (30 mph) before the crash. She also stated that she got eight hours of sleep the night before and usually works an average of seven hours a day and has not had a day off for four days. The driver is familiar with the vehicle and drives the route daily.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded “driver related-internal distraction”. The driver was talking and looking at the passenger before the crash occurred. An associated factor coded to this vehicle was rush hour congestion.

A 47-year old male drove V2, the Dodge Ram with trailer. He stated he was stopped in traffic waiting for traffic to proceed when he saw the driver of V1 in his side mirror talking and looking over at the passenger in V1. He stated that he got eight and a half hours of sleep the night before. He stated that he is a firefighter and works twelve hour shifts, but has not been on duty for two days.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to this vehicle was rush hour congestion.