This one-car crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a six-lane roadway divided by a concrete barrier. There were three southbound and northbound lanes. The road was concrete, level and curved slightly to the left with a posted speed limit of 104 kmph (65 mph). It was early in the afternoon on a weekend, the road was dry and the sky was cloudy. The traffic flow was moderate.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Pontiac Transport minivan with only the driver present, was traveling southbound in lane one. The driver of V1 was about to experience a blackout episode and realized she needed to get off the roadway. She braked and steered left. V1 proceeded to cross over the two lanes to the left and enter the median where the front left contacted the concrete median barrier. V1 deflected off the barrier as it rotated clockwise as it continued southbound approximately 64 meters (210 feet) partially entering lane three and entering back into the median contacting the concrete barrier again with its front plane. V1 came to rest on all four tires facing east approximately 14 meters (46 feet) from the second impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1.

V1 was equipped with both driver and passenger airbags that deployed during the crash. The driver was reported as wearing a lap and shoulder belt. The vehicle was towed due to extreme frontal damage. The driver was transported to a medical facility.

The driver of V1 was a 41-year old female. She stated that she was coming home from meeting a person interested in purchasing her vehicle and going the speed limit before the crash occurred. She stated that she has had blackout episodes before but they have never happened while she was driving. All she remembers is her sight getting fuzzy, thinking she should pull over to the side of the road and then later hearing people trying to talk to her after the crash. She stated that her family is in financial trouble and may "lose everything." It was self reported that she is diagnosed with Addison's disease and Fibromyalga. She also stated she got six hours of sleep the night before and does not work due to her medical condition as well as taking care of a mentally disabled child. The medical records were negative for alcohol or drugs. From the reports, she appears to have severe psychological problems. It is unknown is she was taking the prescribed medication prior to the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver related critical non-performance error: heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act (e.g., blackout). Associated factors coded to this vehicle include driver fatigue due to lack of sleep, ill at the time of the crash, and being emotionally upset due to the family's financial situation.