This two-vehicle crash occurred in the early morning hours in the middle of a straight, level, bituminous asphalt intersection. The northbound roadway consists of three lanes pre and post intersection. The southbound roadway consists of three lanes and a left-turn lane before the intersection and two lanes and left-turn lane after the intersection. The eastbound one-way roadway consists of four lanes (including left and right turn only lanes) before the intersection and three lanes afterwards. At the time of the crash it was raining and there was early morning traffic congestion. The speed limit on the roadway was 56 kmph (35 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 four-door Honda Civic carrying one 18-year old female occupant, was traveling northbound in lane three of the roadway. Vehicle two (V2), a four-door 1994 Jeep Grand Cherokee carrying one 32-year old male occupant, was traveling southbound in lane four attempting a left turn. V2 proceeded to turn and was struck in the front of the vehicle with the front of V1. According to the police report V2 had a green turn arrow and V1 ignored the traffic control signal and encroached into the intersection. Both drivers when interviewed claimed to have the right of way. V1 was towed from the scene while V2 was driven. The driver of V1 was transported to a local trauma center. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 had two years of driving experience, is familiar with the vehicle and was the first time she had driven the route. She was traveling from one school campus to another. She was listening to the radio at the time. She failed to detect the traffic control signal, entered the intersection without stopping and struck V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded “other vehicle encroachment-from opposite direction-over left lane line”. The critical reason was coded inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see”. The driver claimed she had a green light going through the intersection but in fact the signal was red. She attempted evasive maneuvers but not in time to avoid the crash. At the time there was rush hour traffic, it was raining and is the first time driver had driven the route.

The driver of V2 drives the route weekly and is familiar with the vehicle. He did not stop prior to initiating a left turn at the intersection on a protective green arrow. The protective left turn arrow is not located over the left turn lane but to the left of the lane. He attempted no evasive maneuvers prior to impact.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded “this vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection”. A critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.