This two-vehicle crash occurred early morning at the intersection of two, multi-lane roadways. The roadways are straight, level, asphalt and operating overhead traffic lights controls the intersection. The two vehicles were initially traveling in opposite directions. One vehicle turned across the path of the other. The posted speed limit for both roadways is 89 kph (55mph). This crash occurred during darkness prior to sunrise with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one, a 1998 Nissan Maxima sedan driven by a 47 year-old female with one passenger was westbound in the number two lane of a five- lane roadway, approaching the intersection at a speed of about 73 kph (45 mph). The traffic signal was red for this vehicle. Vehicle two, a 1996 Chevrolet Geo Metro sedan driven by a 48 year-old female was eastbound in the number four, left turn lane, entering the intersection on a green left turn light. One non-contact vehicle was ahead of V-2 and successfully completed a left turn. Vehicle one failed to stop for the stoplight, entered the intersection, and the driver attempted to avoid a collision by braking with lockup. The left front of vehicle one struck the right front of vehicle two. The vehicles came to a stop within two meters of impact. Vehicle one was driven from the scene. Vehicle two was towed due to damage. The driver of vehicle two was transported with injuries. The driver of vehicle one stated that the he did not realize the light was red until after entering the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

The pre event movement for vehicle one coded going straight, category this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) the intersection. Critical reason for the critical event driver related factor "Illegal maneuver". (disregard of traffic signal).

The pre event movement for vehicle two coded turning left, category this vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection. Critical reason not coded to this vehicle.