This two-vehicle collision occurred at an intersection comprised by a east/west roadway and a north/south driveway. The east/west roadway is undivided, level, dry, asphalt, and consists of seven lanes. A bike lane borders the north edge of the roadway. The north/south driveway is dry, asphalt, has a 6.5% downgrade slope, and consists of two lanes. The east/west roadway is designated a 64 kmph (40 mph) zone. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Honda Accord was southbound in the first lane of the driveway. Vehicle two (V2), a 1988 Toyota Corolla was westbound in the second travel lane of the roadway. As V1 was entering the roadway from the driveway, the front plane of V2 contacted its left plane. V1 came to rest facing southbound. V2 came to rest facing northwest. V1 was towed with moderate damage. V2 received minor damage and was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, an eighty-seven year old female was traveling to her hotel from a beauty salon. This driver had just started this trip a minute or two before the crash.. The driver visits relatives in the area quite often. The driver has high blood pressure. The driver takes the following medications: Estradiol, Synthroid, and Vitamins. The driver wears glasses for a myopic condition, a hyperopic condition, and astigmatism. The driver was wearing her glasses at the time of the collision. The driver has not received formal driver training. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.

The driver of V2, a sixty-four year old male was traveling home from a doctor's appointment. It is unknown how long this driver had been driving on this trip. The driver receives treatments for back pain. The back pain is due to a dislocated disc. The left rear tires of the vehicle measured 3/32 in depth. It is unknown how often this driver drives this vehicle or over this roadway. When vehicle one entered the roadway, this driver who was one travel lane and one bike lane to the left braked and steered right towards V1.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from driveway, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.