This two vehicle nighttime collision occurred shortly after the evening rush hour. The collision occurred on a four lane, two-way street near a complex intersection. The intersection is where the arterial roadway curves to the east, intersecting an east west street and a north south street. The collision occurred on the arterial road where northbound traffic can make an uncontrolled left turn west. The southbound traffic has a curve to the left. There is no measurable super elevation (bank) for the southbound traffic. All roads are paved with asphalt, and the streets were dry and well lit at the time of the crash. The speed limit for arterial streets is 48 kmph (30 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Nissan Quest minivan, driven by a 56 year-old female with one passenger was headed south in lane two was negotiating the curve. Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 Chrysler New Yorker sedan, driven by a 36 year-old male with one passenger was headed north in lane two. V2 began to turn left onto the westbound street where there is no light or stop sign, and stopped after encroaching in the southbound lanes. V1 did not stop and the front of V1 struck the front of V2. V2 was pushed back approximately one car length, Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage and the driver and passenger in V1 were transported to the hospital for whiplash injuries. The driver and passenger of V2 had no injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle. An additional factor for the driver of V1 was that she was talking with the passenger.

The driver of V2 was on a shopping errand at the time of the crash and was not in a hurry. Earlier that morning he had a Kidney dialysis treatment. He takes the following medications: Atenolol, Renegal and Quindine. This driver stopped in the middle of the intersection in the opposing vehicle's travel lane. He falsely assumed the opposing traffic would yield the right of way to his vehicle. The critical pre-crash event was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was assigned to V2 as a driver related decision factor: False assumption of other's actions. He made a poor decision to stop in the middle of the intersection, this was also considered a performance factor on his part.