This crash occurred in the southbound lane of a 2 lane undivided roadway. The roadway has a posted speed limit of 42 KMPH (30MPH). Conditions were daylight and dry with cloudy skies. This crash occurred on a weekday afternoon.

Vehicle #1, a 1997 Ford Taurus, was traveling south when it impacted with the rear of Vehicle # 2, a 1991 Ford Escort, with its front. This in turn pushed Vehicle #2 into the rear of Vehicle # 3, a 1995 Buick Skylark which then impacted with the rear of Vehicle # 4, a 1993 Subaru Loyale. Vehicles # 1 and 2 came to rest in the original southbound lane. Vehicles # 3 and 4 drove to the roadside after impact. Vehicles # 2, 3 and 4 had been stopped in the southbound lane waiting for an uninvolved vehicle, ahead of them, to make a left turn into a retail establishment. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Ford Taurus, (Vehicle #1) was driven by a belted 21 year old male who was not injured. He stated that the other vehicles were stopped in his lane and they should not have been. He denied any inattention, stating he had seen the other vehicles. This driver denied any use of medications. It should be noted here that this driver had much trouble using the English language and found it difficult to understand questions from the researcher even using the help of his friend who translated.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was coded as: Other Motor Vehicle in Lane, Other Vehicle Stopped. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was coded as: Driver Related Error, Decision Error, Inadequate Evasive Action.

The Ford Escort, (Vehicle #2) was driven by a belted 20 year old male who was transported to an area hospital, treated and released. This driver stated he did not see the other vehicle coming. He stated he had been stopped for several seconds waiting for traffic to move and that he had his foot on the brake pedal. This driver denied any use of medications.

The Critical Precrash Event Coded to this vehicle was: Other Motor Vehicle in Lane, Other Vehicle Stopped. A Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle.

The Buick Skylark, (Vehicle #3) was driven by a belted 20 year old male who was not injured. This driver stated he had been waiting in traffic for an uninvolved vehicle to make a left turn and did not see any precrash events. This driver denied any use of medications.

The Critical Precrash Event Coded to this vehicle was: Other Motor Vehicle in Lane, Other Vehicle Stopped. A Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle.

The Subaru Loyale (Vehicle #4) was listed as 'Other Vehicle' and was not given codes.

The police did not consider alcohol or illegal drugs to be a factor and did not order any testing for any driver.