This four-vehicle collision occurred during evening hours on a weekday. The street was illuminated by street lamps. The crash occurred on a straight, level stretch of a six-lane (nine lanes overall, divided by a painted median), north-south, bituminous roadway, just prior to the intersection of a crossing street. The intersection was controlled by tri-light traffic signals, and the speed limit was 72 kmph (45 mph). At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions, and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1989 Oldsmobile Cutlass Ciera 4-door sedan, was traveling northbound in the fourth lane, approaching stopped traffic at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Kia Sedona minivan, was stopped ahead of V1 in the same lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 1987 Chrysler LeBaron 4-door sedan, was stopped ahead of V2 in the same lane. Vehicle four (V4), a 1993 Ford Ranger pickup, was stopped ahead of V3 in the same lane. The front of V1 impacted the back of V2. V2 moved ahead and struck V3's back plane. V3 moved ahead and struck V4's back plane. All four vehicles came to rest in their original lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.

The 24-year-old male driver of V1 was traveling home from work. He reported that he has been diagnosed with (and is being treated for) narcolepsy. He takes Percocet and Clindamycin. He stated that he fell asleep while driving and woke up just prior to the crash. He applied the brakes and skidded forward, but was unable to avoid the collision. He reported that his condition has never effected his driving before. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: Other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related non-performance error, sleeping (i.e., actually asleep).

The 29-year-old male driver of V2 was delivering a car from the dealership where he works to a client. He was well rested, drives this route daily, and said he was very comfortable driving the vehicle, even though it was his first time driving it. He has no health problems and takes no medications. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.

The 43-year-old male driver of V3 was driving his mother from a store to their home. He was well rested, drives this route several times monthly, and was very comfortable with the vehicle, even though it was borrowed and he had only driven it a couple of times in the last three months. He has high blood pressure for which he takes four different medications; he was unable to recite the names of his meds. V3 was not involved in the first harmful event.