This crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a five-lane non-divided roadway. There were two northbound lanes and two southbound lanes with a left turn lane in the middle.

The crash occurred when Vehicle 1 a 1998 Jaguar XJS Cabriolet traveling east crossed over the center line of the roadway and failed to stop for the red traffic light traveling into the path of Vehicle 2 a 1996 Chevrolet S-10 pick-up. V2's front contacted the right side of V1. V1 then rotated counter clockwise side slapping V2 traveling into a restaurant parking lot, and contacting posts in front of the restaurant then coming to final rest in the lot. V2 then rotated clockwise and contacted a fire hydrant with the back rim and rear bumper cap on the left rear side of the pick-up. Then traveling back onto the roadway crossing the centerline of the roadway coming to final rest at the south curb of the eastbound travel lane. The driver of V2 was transported to a local trauma unit for his injuries. The driver of V1 was not transported, both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 38 year-old male that stated that he is in good health and is taking no medications at this time drove Vehicle 1. He stated he does not wear corrective lenses but states he can not see out of his right eye. He stated that he and his brother have been taking turns watching their store. It had a fire a few days earlier. He was on his way to it at the time of the crash. He stated he was traveling east in lane one. He also stated that the light was green and when he entered the intersection a vehicle traveling north came into the intersection hitting his vehicle at the right front side rotating his vehicle counter clockwise and pushing it into a parking lot on the north east corner of the intersection. He stated that is wear he came to final rest.

A 53 year-old male drove Vehicle 2. He stated he is taking no medications at this time. He does wear corrective lenses for myopic (nearsightedness). He stated that he had just left his office for his daily rout and was traveling north in lane one. He traveled towards the intersection the light had changed to green and was green for around 10 seconds. He stated as he entered the intersection he saw the vehicle crossing in front of him. He stated he could not brake but thinks he steered to the right. He does not remember much after that he just kept trying to keep his vehicle from contacting any other vehicles. He stated his vehicle came to final rest on the south side of the eastbound roadway.

The Critical Pre crash Event for V 1 was coded “this vehicle traveling crossing over (passing through) intersection”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded “driver related error decision error aggressive driving behavior”. The associated factors to this vehicle were reckless driving behavior and this driver was thinking of his work place.

The Critical Pre crash Event for V2 was coded “other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The Associated factor to this vehicle was this driver was thinking of his rout for the day.

Witness #1 stated as he traveled west towards the intersection in lane one he noted a vehicle (V1) traveling in his lane towards him then a northbound vehicle (V2) contacted V1 at the right side of V1's vehicle rotating the vehicle counter clockwise and it traveled into a parking lot to final rest. The northbound vehicle (V2) rotated clockwise onto the sidewalk contacting a fire hydrant then traveling to the south side of the roadway to final rest.

Witness #2 stated he was traveling west and had come to a stop in the left turn lane at a red light. He stated he was stopped for 10 to 15 seconds and saw a vehicle traveling east half in lane two and half in lane one of westbound traffic entering the intersection and being contacted by a northbound vehicle in lane one both vehicles traveled east out of his view because of the type of vehicle he was driving.

This researcher after speaking with the officer found he had been following the driver of Vehicle 1 and the vehicle had ran three traffic lights and one stop sign before entering the intersection and crashing. The officer opened the back door of his cruiser and asked the driver if he ever noted the police curser following him with his lights on. The driver stated he did not.