The crash occurred on a two-lane undivided roadway with one lane in each direction (east-west). The pre-crash roadway was straight and level at its beginning and had a slight radius of curvature (237m) to the right near the point of impact. The posted speed limit was 48 kmph (30 mph). The crash occurred in daylight at early evening on a weekday national holiday. The weather was cloudy and dry but there had been rain earlier in the day. Traffic was light.

V1, a 1998 Nissan Sentra four-door with two occupants, was westbound in the eastbound lane. According to a witness' statement to the police, V1 had been driving on a flat tire (unknown which one) on the wrong side of the roadway. V1 departed the left edge of the roadway, hit a puddle of rainwater, and then traveled in a straight line across a soggy patch of grass on the south side of the roadway, before striking a utility pole with its front right. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

V1 was driven by a 24-year old female who received possible injuries and was transported to a hospital by EMS. The driver's five-year old daughter was a passenger in the back seat and also received possible injuries and was transported to a hospital by her father. During a partial interview, the driver said she did not remember driving on a flat tire, going off the road or impacting the pole. She said she was on her way to her mother's home. The researcher does not believe the driver was being totally honest. She refused to answer further questions about half way through the interview and hung up on the researcher.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the roadway on the left side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was an "other critical non-performance error." This was chosen after a review of the medical records, which indicated that the driver of V1 was under the influence of multiple drugs (legal and illegal) and alcohol. Other associated factors include a roadway deficiency in that the roadway had a deteriorated edge, and a vehicle-related factor because the vehicle was being driven on a flat tire.