This three-vehicle crash occurred on a four-lane roadway. This roadway is straight and level, of asphalt construction with no defects noted. The speed limit of the roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Ford Mustang was eastbound in the second lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Chevrolet pickup was stopped in eastbound in the second lane ahead of vehicle one. Vehicle three (V3), a 2004 Chevrolet pickup towing a boat was stopped eastbound ahead of V2. V2 and V3 stopped to let two non-contact vehicles ahead of them turn left. V1 impacted the rear of V2. The front of V2 then impacted the rear of V3. V1 and V2 came to rest in the roadway. V3 pulled off the road to final rest. V1 was towed due to damage. V2 and V3 were not towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of vehicle one (V1), a twenty-seven year old male was heading to a wedding in another town at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about two and one-quarter hours at the time of the crash. This driver was conversing with the passenger about the wedding and thinking about his business that he owns. This driver drives this vehicle that is owned by the passenger less than ten times a month and travels over this road only rarely.

The driver of V2, a sixty-eight year old male was returning home from an errand in another city. This driver had been driving for about two hours and fifteen minutes at the time of the crash. This driver was taking Diovan, Glucophage, Plavix, Prilosec, Lasix, Vitamins and Zocor as medications. This driver stated that he had just stopped to avoid V3 and then was impacted from behind. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.

The driver of V3, a thirty-nine year old male was heading to the lake to go fishing at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about one hour and forty-five minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that the two other vehicles did not signal when the slowed to turn. This driver stated that he was staying about three car lengths back because he had the trailer. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a monthly basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: inattention.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.