The crash occurred southbound lane of two T-intersections composed of a 2-lane north/southbound roadway, an east/westbound driveway access to a shopping center on the western curb and east/westbound driveway access to a business on the eastern curb. The north/southbound roadway was composed of one northbound lane and one southbound lane. The bituminous southbound lane curved left before becoming straight with a greater then 2% uphill grade and the northbound lane was bituminous and straight with a great then 2% downhill grade. Both lanes had a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The western driveway was straight, bituminous, with a 5% uphill/downhill grade. Both a "Stop" and a "No Left Turn" sign controlled eastbound exiting traffic. The eastern driveway was straight, level and bituminous with no control devises. It was midday on a weekday. The roads were dry and the sky was cloudy. Traffic flow was moderate.

V1, a 1995 Ford Mustang with one occupant, was exiting the western driveway and attempted to make an illegal left turn when it struck V2. V2, a 1999 Ford Explorer with two occupants, was traveling south as it passes the intersection. V1 struck V2 on the front right wheel. V1 came to rest as V2 continued south, crossing over the centerline, into northbound traffic and struck V3, a 1991 Chevrolet Cavalier with one occupant, as it exited the eastern driveway and turned north. V2 and V3 struck head-on. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, driven by a19-year-old male who reported no injuries, states he was attempting to turn left out of a shopping center even though it was illegal because he was in a rush to go home when he struck V2. Driver one attempted no avoidance maneuvers.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection". The Critical reason for the Critical Event was a "Driver related factor-Illegal maneuver". The following associated factors were assigned. Decision errors Misjudgment of the gap distance-Misjudgment of both factors (distance and velocity), Illegal Maneuver-other illegal maneuver (illegal left turn). Aggressive Factor Ignoring traffic control devices with the Reason Always drive like this. Performance/Experience Factors Emotional-In a hurry-Late for a social appointment and Inexperienced Driver were also assigned.

The Driver of V2, a 64-year-old female, and occupant one, a 63 year-old male, reported no injuries. Driver states she was traveling at approximately 56 kmph (35 mph), when she attempted to pass through the intersection when V2 turned left at the stop sign, striking her vehicle and causing her to crossover the centerline into oncoming traffic, striking V3. V2 was unable to attempt any avoidance maneuver.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment from driveway, turning in opposite direction". No Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. One associated factor was coded to this vehicle, conversing with passenger.

The Driver of V3, a 66-year-old male, reported no injuries. Driver states he had just turned north out of the eastern driveway when V1 struck V2 causing V2 to cross over the centerline and strike his vehicle

The Critical Precrash Event for V3 was "Not involved in first harmful event". No Critical Reason or associated factors were coded to this vehicle.