This crash occurred in a 4-way intersection. The east/west roadway consisted of five lanes that were divided by a concrete median barrier. There were two lanes heading west and three heading east. The north/south roadway was divided by a raised curb barrier and had five lanes on the north side of the intersection and four lanes on the south side of the intersection (two in each direction). The east/west roadway was straight, level and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 80 kmph (50 mph). The north/south roadway on the south side of the intersection was curved to the right with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). It was early afternoon on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was slightly congested with stop-and-go traffic activity.

V1, a 2002 Chevrolet Venture minivan, was traveling north in the first lane of travel (a straight or right turn-only lane). V2, a 2007 Toyota Camry 4-door was also traveling north but in the second lane of travel (the straight or left turn-only lane). Both vehicles stopped at the intersection for a red light. When the light turned green, both vehicles entered the intersection. As V2 was turning left, V1 suddenly changed its direction (from going straight) and turned left into the left side of V2. V1 pushed V2 forward and to the left, forcing V2 to impact the curb (approximately 22 meters from the first point of impact), and this curb strike caused V2 to rollover 2-quarter turns slightly less than 3 meters from point of impact with the curb. After separating from V2, V1 rotated in a counterclockwise direction and ended up facing south approximately 10 meters north of point of impact with V2. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the 2002 Chevrolet Venture minivan, was driven by a 74-year-old male who reported "B" injuries and was transported to the hospital. The driver stated that he was heading to a doctor appointment from his home. The last thing he remembered was approaching the intersection and waiting at the light to make the left turn. However, according to the witness, he was not in the correct lane to make the left hand turn. The driver stated that he doesn't remember going through the intersection or the accident itself. He assumes that what the police and insurance companies told him happened is correct but could not offer any more information about the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a decision error- illegal maneuver. The illegal maneuver was that this driver turned from the wrong lane. The driver was only legally able to make a right turn or go straight and needed to be in the second lane in order to make the left. Other associated factors coded to this driver were inattention and inadequate surveillance.

V2, the 2007 Toyota Camry, was driven by an 88-year-old male who had one passenger. Both were transported to the hospital directly from the scene, the driver with a "B" injury and the occupant with a "C" injury. The driver stated that he was traveling home from a hairdresser appointment and approached the intersection intending on making a left at the intersection to go home. This driver does not remember exactly how the crash occurred or the accident itself. He too believes that the conclusion drawn by the police and insurance companies was an accurate description of how it happened. His son stated that he looked at the scene and the vehicles and also believes that their assessment of the accident is correct. They were unable to supply any additional information about the crash.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was "Other motor vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane (same direction) over right lane line." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. One associated factor coded to the driver of V2 was conversation, because he reported that he had been talking to his passenger right before the crash occurred.