This two-vehicle collision occurred at a four-leg intersection comprised by a north/south roadway and an east/west roadway. The north/south roadway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of five lanes. The east/west roadway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of five lanes. Both roadways are designated 56 kmph (35 mph) zones. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light signal that was functioning properly at the time of the collision. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Mercury Sable was eastbound in the third lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Chevrolet C-1500 was westbound in the first lane. As V1 attempted a left turn at the intersection, the front plane of V2 contacted it's front plane. V1 rotated counter-clockwise and proceeded towards the northwest curb. The front plane of V1 then contacted a bush with its front plane. V1 came to rest facing west against the wooden fence. V2 came to rest facing northwest blocking the southbound number one lane. V1 received moderate damage and was not towed from the scene. V2 received moderate damage and was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a seventy-nine year-old female, was traveling from her sister's home to her home. The driver departed the sister's home, located on the northwest corner of the intersection, approximately two minutes prior to the collision. The driver has high blood pressure and thyroid problems. The driver takes Levothyroxine (Levothroid), Hydrochlorothiazide, and Benazepril (Lotensin). The driver wears tri-focals at all times. She was wearing her glasses at the time of the collision. The driver performs arm/chest exercises every morning with tension resistant bands. The driver stated that the other vehicle was turning left, but changed its mind and proceeded through the intersection. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of V2, a thirty-three year old male, was traveling from a hardware repair facility to a friend's home. The driver had driven 1.6 kilometers (one mile) in approximately 8 kilometers (five miles). The driver was listening to the radio as he was driving. The driver's license was expired at the time of the collision. It expired on his birthday, 12 days prior to the collision. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at the intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over left lane. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.