This three-vehicle collision occurred at the intersection of a two-way city street and an arterial road. Both roadways have parking along both sides of the street. The intersection with the city street has stop signs for the north/south traffic ways. The roadway for vehicle two (V2) and vehicle three (V3) is straight and bituminous; for V2, there is a downhill grade of 2% and for V3 there is an uphill grade of 2%. The speed limit for the arterial street is 40 kmph (25 mph) and for the two-way city street is 48 kmph (30 mph). It was daylight and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Toyota Camry sedan with 3 passengers, was stopped northbound in lane one at the stop sign. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Acura 3.5RL sedan with one passenger, was traveling east in lane one. Vehicle three (V3), a 1994 Oldsmobile Cutlass sedan with one passenger, was traveling west in lane one. V1 entered the intersection intending to turn left and impacted the right side of V2 with the front of V1. Both V1 and V2 rotated clockwise. The back of V2 impacted the front of V3 and came to rest with its rear tires off the ground to the east of V1 and in contact with V3 facing generally southwest. V3 came to rest in the original lane of travel on the approximate original heading. V1 came to rest just to the east of the intersection facing generally south. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The V1 driver, a 41-year-old female, was not reported as injured and stated that she looked and did not see V2 before she hit it. A witness to the crash stated to the investigating officer V1 did not stop for the stop sign. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was assigned to the V1 driver as a driver related factor, Inadequate surveillance. The driver also failed to stop for the stop sign, an illegal manuever.

The V2 driver, a 24-year old male, was not reported as injured. He refused to be interviewed on scene, and was unable to be contacted later for an interview. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment;from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to V2. No associative factors were coded to the V2 driver.

The V3 driver, a 32-year-old male, was not reported as injured. He stated that he saw the crash sequence developing, slammed on his brakes, and skidded before the impact with V2. This driver was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.