The crash occurred in the eastbound lane of a two-lane undivided east/west roadway. The asphalt roadway was dry, straight and level with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). It was early afternoon on a weekend with clear dry weather conditions. Traffic flow was moderate.

Four vehicles were involved in the crash with all four being eastbound in lane one. V1 was a 2000 Oldsmobile Alero four-door with three occupants. V2 was a 1996 Toyota 4-Runner sport utility vehicle with three occupants. V3 was a 2006 Honda Civic four-door with two occupants. V4 was a 2000 Honda Civic two-door with three occupants. A non-contact vehicle stopped in front of V4 while yielding to on-coming traffic before turning left into a strip mall parking lot. V4 stopped behind the non-contact vehicle. V3 stopped behind V4. V2 stopped behind V3. V1 was coming up behind V2 and without braking, ran into the rear of V2 with its front end, striking the rear of V2. V2 was knocked forward approximately 2m into the rear of V3, which was in turn knocked forward about 1.5m into the rear of V4. There was a gap of about 1m between V1 and V2 at final rest. There was no gap between V2 and V3 at their final resting points. V4 came to final rest about 3m ahead of V3. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Oldsmobile Alero, was driven by a 22-year old male. The front seat passenger was not injured. Police coded driver's infant child as suffering non-incapacitating injuries but no occupants were transported to a hospital. The driver of V1 said he was returning home from a park picnic when his vehicle ran into the rear of V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was other motor vehicle in lane traveling in the same direction, stopped. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was driver related - sleeping. When the researcher questioned the driver at the scene he stated that he was tired and had fallen asleep. The driver told police that he had blacked out and could not stop when he looked up. During a surrogate interview, the driver's wife said he had been traveling 64 kmph (40 mph). EDR readings showed that the driver was traveling 33-34 mph (53-54 kmph) and that he had not applied the brakes prior to impact. Associated factors coded to V1 included driver fatigue, inexperience, and this being his first time on the roadway.

V2, the Toyota 4-Runner, was driven by a 32-year old male. None of the occupants of V2 were reported injured or transported. The driver said he was traveling from one friend's home to another friend's home. He stated that he was stopped about 5ft (1.5m) behind V3. He had been stopped for a very short time and glanced into his rear-view mirror just before impact and noticed V1 approaching from behind him. He did not hear V1 braking or skidding. The driver said he applied his brakes at impact but his vehicle was still knocked forward into V3.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other motor vehicle in lane traveling in the same direction with a higher speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle. The only associated factor coded to the driver of V2 was unfamiliarity with the roadway.

V3, the Honda Civic four-door, was driven by a 46-year old male. No occupants of V3 were injured. He stated that he had been stopped for about 10 seconds about 6ft (1.8m) behind V4, which had also been stopped behind a non-contact vehicle ahead of his for about 10 seconds. The driver added that his foot was on the brakes. He was on his way from one job to another and had to be at the second job within 30 minutes. He said he did not know a crash was imminent and suddenly felt the vehicle behind his strike his rear end, knocking him forward into V4.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V3 was other - not involved in the first harmful event. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle. An associated factor of driver fatigue was coded for V3 because the driver admitted working about 96 hours per week. That does not leave much time for sleep. V3 was also coded for the driver talking with his passenger, and being in a hurry due to his only having 30 minutes to get to his second job.

V4, the Honda Civic two-door, was driven by a 46-year old male. There were no injuries to the occupants of V4. The driver said at the scene that he had been stopped behind a stopped non-contact vehicle that was signaling a left turn to a parking lot. The driver of V4 did not respond to the researcher's calls for an interview. V4 was not a case vehicle.