The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a five-lane, suburban roadway. There were four southbound lanes - one left turn, two straight and one right turn lane, there were three northbound lanes - one left turn and two straight lanes. The intersection was signal-controlled with pedestrian crosswalks. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The southbound approach was on a 3% uphill grade, the northbound approach on a 4% downhill grade, and the westbound approach on a 4% uphill grade. Conditions were daylight and dry with cloudy skies. The setting was early evening hours on a weekday.

Vehicle one was a 2005 Saturn Vue compact utility stopped in the third lane facing south waiting to turn left. Vehicle two was a 2000 Ford F150 pickup traveling north in lane three. Vehicle three was a 2002 Ford Focus sedan stopped facing west in the first lane waiting to turn right. The traffic light had changed to yellow as V1 began turning left and V2 proceeded straight through the intersection. The front of V1 struck the left plane of V2. V1 came to rest in the intersection. V2 continued traveling northeast and impacted the left plane of V3 with its front. V2 and V3 came to rest in the roadway at the point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

The Saturn Vue (V1) was driven by a 34-year old female who was reported to have possible injuries but was not transported. She stated that she was returning home from a cross-country trip and was within a few blocks from home after an eight-hour drive. She had been waiting to turn left on an unprotected green light before proceeding. She didn't notice the oncoming pickup. She applied the brakes but could not successfully avoid the collision. Her estimated travel and impact speeds were 16 kmph (10 mph). The compact utility was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “this vehicle traveling turning left at an intersection”. The Critical Reason was “inadequate surveillance”. This driver had a large amount of luggage and her cats in the vehicle with her. She was taking prescription medications for allergies, birth control, and depression. She wore glasses for a nearsighted condition. The driver was likely fatigued after having driven eight hours on this trip.

The Ford F150 (V2) was driven by a 45-year old male who was reported to have possible injuries but was not transported. The driver stated that he was heading from home to a recreational event when another vehicle turned into him at an intersection, pushing him into a third vehicle. He steered right and braked but was unable to avoid impact. His estimated travel and impact speeds were 72 kmph (45 mph) and 64 kmph (40 mph). The pickup was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was “other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over the left lane line”. No Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. The driver had injured his lower back several weeks prior playing sports, and re-aggravated the injury in this crash. He drives this roadway on a monthly basis.

The Ford Focus (V3) was driven by a 40-year old female with one passenger. Both occupants were reported to have possible injuries, but were not transported. The driver stated that she had just picked up her daughter from school and was heading home. She was waiting at a stoplight when a crash occurred in front of her sending a truck into her vehicle's left plane. She did not have a chance to react, and remained in the stopped position. The sedan was towed due to damage.

No Critical Precrash Event or Reason were coded to V3 because it was not involved in the first harmful event. The driver was talking with her passenger at the time of the crash. No other associated factors were present for this driver.