This two-vehicle collision occurred during morning daylight hours on a weekday. The crash occurred at the four-leg intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light traffic signal with no protected left phase, and the speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph) in all directions. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse atmospheric conditions and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1993 Toyota Previa, was traveling northbound in the third lane of a six-lane, two-way, undivided, dry, level, bituminous roadway, approaching the intersection with the intention of turning left into westbound traffic. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Chevrolet 1500 single-cab pickup, was traveling southbound in the first lane of opposing traffic, approaching the same intersection with the intention of passing straight through. As V1 made its turn, the front of V2 impacted the right side of V1. V1 rotated clockwise and came to rest in the eastbound lanes. V2 continued forward and came to rest in its original lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 37-year-old female driver of V1 has received no driver's training. She reported that she entered the intersection and executed the turn during the yellow phase of the tri-light. She said that she saw V2's approach, but she thought (from her perception of its distance and speed) that she would have sufficient time to complete the turn. The critical precrash event for V1 was: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded as a driver related decision error: misjudgment of gap or other's speed.

The 59-year-old male driver of V2 reported that he was listening to the radio as he approached the intersection. He saw V1's approach, but believed that V1 would yield and allow him to pass. As V1 turned, the driver of V2 engaged the brakes, but was unable to avoid a collision. The critical precrash event for V2 was: Other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction- over left lane line. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.