This three-vehicle crash occurred in a four-way, tri-color traffic signal-controlled intersection. The northbound lanes are straight, level approaching the intersection and consist of two through lanes and a left-turn-only lane. The southbound lanes are straight, uphill and also consist of two through lanes and a left-turn-only lane. The speed limit for this roadway is 56 kph (35 mph). This crash took place during daylight hours and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time.

Vehicle one, a 1994 Oldsmobile Silhouette, was southbound in lane three and the driver was intending to turn left at the intersection to proceed eastbound. Vehicle two, a 2003 Nissan Altima, was northbound in lane two and the driver was intending to continue straight through the intersection. Vehicle three, a 2000 Dodge Durango, was southbound in lane two and the driver was intending to continue straight through the intersection. The north/south traffic signal was solid green. As vehicle one turned left at the intersection, the front struck the front of vehicle two. Vehicle two continued northbound, rotating slightly clockwise and came to rest in the northbound number one lane. Vehicle one rotated counterclockwise, moved slightly backward and the back left corner was struck by the front of vehicle three. Vehicle three came to rest in the original lane facing south. Vehicle one came to rest in the southbound lane facing east/southeast. Vehicle one was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a thirty-one-year-old female, was en route from her home to drop off her twenty-nine-year-old husband at his workplace. She was familiar with her vehicle but traveled this route very rarely. This driver is diabetic (and takes two different insulin medications twice every day) and had the flu for several days. On this day, she woke up (approximately an hour prior to the crash) feeling fatigued, dizzy and nauseated. She stated that she was looking at the traffic signal and then at her intended path to the eastbound lanes at the time of the crash.

The driver of vehicle two, a twenty-five-year-old female, was driving from home to work. She was well rested and familiar with her route and her vehicle, but was running late on this day. She noticed vehicle three turning so she applied the brakes, skidding longitudinally approximately ten meters.

The driver of vehicle three, a thirty-two-year-old female, was driving from her home to volunteer at a baseball game. She was late and since she rarely drove this route, she was looking for the correct street for her destination. She was well rested and very familiar with her vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as decelerating in traffic lane, category "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)."

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "not coded to this vehicle." The critical pre-crash event for vehicle three was coded as "other; not involved first harmful event." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle three was coded as "not coded to this vehicle."