This two-vehicle crash occurred on a Friday afternoon at the four-leg intersection of a 56 kph (35 mph) north/south roadway, and a 48 kph (30 mph) east/west roadway. The intersection is controlled by tri-light traffic signal, which was functioning properly at the time. The north/south roadway consists of seven lanes. There were no adverse weather conditions and the road was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Nissan Altima four-door sedan, was traveling northbound in the fourth lane (left-turn-only) and approaching the intersection with the intention of turning left into westbound traffic. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Toyota Sequoia SUV, was traveling southbound in the first lane of opposing traffic, approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

As V1 executed the turn, the front of V2 impacted the right rear door and panel of V1. V1 rotated clockwise and departed the road over the northwest corner, damaging the right front wheel and tire. V1's front plane struck a signal light pole, knocking the pole down and bringing V1 to rest. V2 came to rest in the southbound lanes, facing generally south. V1 was towed due to damage; V2 was driven from the scene.

The 55-year-old female driver of V1 indicated that she saw the approach of V2 as she was waiting to turn left. As the tri-light entered the yellow phase, she assumed that V2 would stop and allow her to execute the turn. After describing the crash, she refused further interview. The critical precrash event for V1 is: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event is attributed to V1, and was coded as a driver-related factor: false assumption of other's actions.

The 29-year-old male driver of V2 stated that he was commuting from home to a work site. He is a personal trainer on the way to a client's address. He engages in vigorous exercise six or seven times a week in addition to participation in a basketball league. As he approached the intersection, he said that he saw the other vehicle approaching the intersection in the left-turn lane, but that its turn signal was not activated. He also stated that V1 did not slow or stop prior to executing the turn, and that he entered the intersection during the green phase of the tri-light. The critical precrash event for V2 was: Other vehicle encroaching into lane, from opposite direction over left lane line. The critical reason for the event is not attributed to V2.