The crash occurred at a four-legged intersection in the northbound lanes. For the northbound approach there were two northbound lanes, a left turn lane, and two southbound lanes divided by a small, concrete median. For the southbound approach there was a right turn lane, two southbound lanes, two left turn lanes, and two northbound lanes separated by a small, concrete median. The intersection was signal-controlled with pedestrian lights and crosswalks. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph) with a 2 % grade uphill in the northbound direction. Conditions were dark (lighted) and dry with clear skies. The setting was early evening hours on a weekday.

Vehicle one was a 1992 Mercedes 300E sedan traveling north in lane one. Vehicle two was a 2002 Honda Accord sedan stopped facing south in lane four waiting to turn left. Both vehicles proceeded into the intersection. The left plane of v1 was impacted by the front plane of v2. V1 continued north and came to rest on the curb partially off the northeast corner of the intersection. V2 came to rest in the intersection facing east near the point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

The Mercedes 300E (v1) was driven by a 48-year old male who was transported to a local trauma center with non-incapacitating injuries. He refused to be interviewed. The investigating officer estimated his travel and impact speeds to be 72 kmph (45 mph). The officer was unable to determine right of way. The Mercedes sedan was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for v1 was other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason was a driver related factor of an unknown recognition error. No other associated factors could be coded to this driver.

The Honda Accord (v2) was driven by a 33-year old female who was transported to a local trauma center with non-incapacitating injuries. She stated that she was heading home from shopping when she came to this intersection. She waited 5-10 seconds for the left turn light to turn green, and then proceeded. She claimed to be struck by a vehicle traveling at a very high speed. She never saw the other vehicle and didn't have any chance to react. Her estimated travel and impact speeds were 16 kmph (10 mph). The Honda sedan was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for v2 was this vehicle traveling turning left at an intersection. No Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. This driver had asthma. She was wearing contact lenses for a nearsighted condition.