A single vehicle daytime collision occurred on a Wednesday morning on an interstate highway. The east/west highway is divided, level, concrete, and consists of four lanes in each direction. The south edge of the westbound lanes is bordered by a concrete median with a concrete barrier. An asphalt shoulder borders the north edge of the highway followed by a dirt embankment with a downgrade slope. Various trees and bushes cover the embankment. The bottom of the embankment, located approximately 30 meters (100 feet) from the shoulder contains a drainage culvert. The highway is designated a 105 kmph (65 mph) zone. The road surface was dry and the sky was clear.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Honda Accord four-door sedan with one occupant, was traveling westbound in the number three lane. As V1 was traveling, the tread on the right rear tire separated from the tire. V1 traveled across all of the lanes towards the highway's north edge as it rotated clockwise and entered the embankment. The front plane contacted the bushes located on the dirt embankment. The left plane then contacted the dirt embankment. V1 proceeded down the embankment as it struck at least two trees with its front plane. V1 reached the bottom of the embankment and struck a drainage culvert with its front plane. The vehicle came to rest facing west in the drainage culvert. V1 suffered major damage and was towed from the scene. The driver was transported after rescue personnel extricated her by removing the roof. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1 is a 27-year-old female. Unfortunately, the driver refused an interview. The driver did inform police that she felt as though her vehicle was struck as she traveled. She then lost control of the vehicle. The right rear tire was inspected and found to have suffered complete tread separation. A witness following behind V1 stated the vehicle was weaving back and forth on the roadway before it ran off the right road edge. The witness also stated he saw the brake lights come on.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle control loss due to- blow out/flat tire. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a vehicle related factor: tire/wheel failure.