The crash occurred at about noon on a weekday on a straight roadway at one of several driveway entrances to a truck stop. There were no traffic control devices. The roadway runs east-west. On the main roadway there was one lane in each direction with a center left turn only lane. The roadway was asphalt paved and was dry. There were three driveways on the north side of the roadway to a truck stop. The weather conditions were daylight, clear, dry and warm. Traffic density was moderate. The posted speed limit was 64kph (40mph).

V1 was a 2002 Dodge Dakota pickup truck that was traveling westbound in lane one occupied by only the driver. V2 was a 1999 Chrysler LHS 4 door occupied by the driver and three occupants. V2 was in lane three the left turn lane heading east behind a tractor trailer. V3 was a 1999 Ford Ranger pickup truck that was in the truck stop driveway, waiting for traffic to clear so it could turn left to the eastbound roadway. V3 was occupied by the driver and one passenger. As V2 turned left into the driveway of the truck stop V1's front contacted V2's right side. The impact caused V2 to spin in a clockwise rotation into the driveway and V2's left side contacted V3's front. V1 came to rest facing west in its original lane. V2 came to rest in the driveway heading east. V3's final rest was its original position because it was stopped waiting for traffic. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage, V3 was not towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Dodge, was driven by a 21 year old male who was not injured. He said that he was driving westbound in lane one at about the speed limit on his way from home to search for a new vehicle to buy. He said he was looking straight ahead. The driver noticed that there was a large 18-wheeler (non-contact vehicle) in the left turn only lane ahead of him waiting to turn left into the truck stop driveway. He said he could not see V2 because it was behind the 18 wheeler. He was going to continue to go straight and suddenly saw V2 turning left from the left turn only lane from behind the 18 wheeler. The driver stated that he hit the brakes and they locked up and he skidded straight into the right side of V2. V1 left about 20m of straight skid marks prior to impact.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line". The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor for this vehicle was sightline restriction; driver's view was obstructed by non-contact vehicle.

V2, the Chrysler, driven by a 66 year old male from out of state. He was not injured. The passenger stated that they were going to a gas station to get gas and a semi was in front of them. They were in the left turn only lane behind the semi. The semi pulled up to the driveway ahead of the one they ere going to turn into but he stayed in the left turn lane. They started to turn. The driver did no see V1 coming at them until it was too late. They were in the path of V1 and tried to accelerate but V1 ran into us and knocked us into another truck in the driveway.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "this vehicle traveling turning left". The Critical Reason was "inadequate surveillance, failed to look, looked but did not see". An associated factor for this driver was view obstructed by other vehicle. An associated factor for this vehicle was that driver turned with an obstructed view.

V3, the Ford, was driver by a 41 year old male. The driver stated that he was stopped in the driveway of the truck stop waiting to make a left turn. He was about a car length away from the edge of the road. He saw the 18-wheeler in the left turn lane eastbound and a gold car in the left turn lane behind it. He saw a black pickup westbound. The 18-wheler stayed in the left lane. The gold car turned left behind it into the path of the black pickup which struck the gold car on the back right side knocking it toward me. The car started to spin clockwise and when it did the back right wheel struck my front bumper.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V3 was "Other, not involved in first harmful event." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle.