This two-vehicle collision occurred during evening hours on a weeknight. The crash occurred at the intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway. The intersection is controlled by tri-light traffic signals, and is illuminated by street lamps. The speed limit is 64 kmph (40 mph) in all direction. The east leg of the intersection is a five-lane, two-way, straight, level, bituminous roadway; the west leg has four lanes. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions, and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Ford Taurus 4-door sedan, was traveling westbound and approaching the intersection during the yellow phase of the tri-light, with the intention of turning left into southbound traffic. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Ford Mustang 2-door coupe, was traveling eastbound and approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. As V1 made its turn, the front of V1 impacted the left side of V2. V1 came to rest at impact; V2 rotated clockwise and came to rest facing west in the eastbound lanes. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.

The 32-year-old male driver of V1 reported that another vehicle in front of him made the left turn safely, and then the light turned yellow. He stated that he saw V1, but he assumed that V1 would stop and allow him to safely turn. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related decision error, false assumption of other's actions.

The 16-year-old male driver of V2 reported that as he approached the intersection, he saw V2 approximately two car lengths from the intersection, decelerating in the left turn lane. He stated that the light turned yellow just before he entered the intersection, and that he assumed that V1 would stop. He also stated that when V1 turned, he had no time to take an evasive action. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over left lane line. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.