This three-vehicle crash occurred on a dry, straight, undivided, four-lane roadway with traffic/pedestrian control signals. The roadway runs north and south at the location of the crash and has one right through/turn lane, one through lane and one left turn lane. The speed limit on the roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph) and there were no adverse weather conditions at the time.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Ford Focus was northbound in lane one going straight. Vehicle two (V2), an unknown hit and run vehicle was stopped northbound in lane one. Vehicle three (V3), a 2001 Chevrolet Prizm was stopped in front of V2 for a red light. The light turned green and V3 started up in traffic. V2 was rear-ended by V1's front. V2 was pushed forward and rear-ended V3 with its front. Driver of V1 turned right at the intersection and came to rest on its wheels facing northwest in a private driveway and the driver ran from the vehicle and scene. Driver of V2 drove away from the scene. Driver of V3 turned right at the intersection and into the private driveway V1 entered and called the police. V1 was towed due to damage. V2 and V3 were not towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 fled the scene and could not be interviewed. The Police indicated that within in the car, all sorts of drug paraphernalia were found.

The driver of V2 also left the scene and was not interviewed.

The driver of V3, a twenty-two year old female had been stopped and was just starting with a green light. This driver was heading to work and had been driving for about ten minutes at the time of the crash. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V1 but due to a lack of interview was coded as a driver related factor: type of driver error unknown. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was not coded to this vehicle. V3 was not involved in the first harmful event and the critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.