This single vehicle crash occurred mid-afternoon on a two-lane asphalt constructed rural roadway with good visibility and no sight obstructions. This roadway is a north/south location, with a posted speed of 89 kmph (55 mph). A warning sign had an advisory speed limit of 80 kmph (50 mph). This roadway has various curves and grades with no obvious defects or weather conditions. This crash occurred on a left hand curve.

Vehicle one (V1), a black 2003 Jeep Liberty 4 door SUV, was northbound and was negotiating a left hand curve. The driver was in the process of moving and the vehicle was packed with household items and also two dogs. The driver dozed off and the right side tires exited the right road edge where the front right struck a delineator post. The driver then steered back onto the roadway then steered right and then the vehicle again ran off the right road edge. The driver over-compensated left and the vehicle began to yaw counter clockwise as it ran off the left road edge. Once off the roadway the vehicle struck another post before it crossed through a drainage ditch and up an embankment with the right side leading. The right side struck some medium sized bushes before it began to fall over to the left 3-quarter turns from the steep embankment. V1 came to rest on the right side facing in a southerly direction. The vehicle was towed and the driver was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1.

The 59-year-old female driver was in use of the lap and shoulder belts. She was slightly injured when one of two dogs in the vehicle bit her on the right arm. The driver was transported to a local hospital for treatment and was released. She stated that she was in the process of moving to another city 193 kilometers (120 miles) away and had spent the entire weekend cleaning and packing. She had started out on this trip in the early afternoon and was fatigued from all the cleaning she had done. She could not remember much just prior to this event and believed she dozed off; all she could remember was trying to avoid a sign, and then steering to control her vehicle. The driver claims to be in good health, but does take daily medication for high blood pressure. She sleeps well and gets around 8 hours sleep per night. On this weekend she had gone to bed at 21:00 hours because she was tired and had awakened at 0600 hours to pack and start her trip.

The critical pre-crash event was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason was coded as a driver related factor: sleeping, that is, actually asleep.