The crash occurred in the middle of a four-way intersection not controlled by a traffic device. There were three lanes running east, with lane three being a left turn only lane. There were three lanes running west, with lane three being a left turn only lane. Conditions were clear and dry and it was early afternoon on a weekday. Traffic flow was normal and the roadway was straight and level.

Vehicle #1 was a 1998 Mitsubishi Diamante that was occupied by young juveniles driving at a high rate of speed in lane three of the eastbound lanes. Vehicle 2 was a 1998 Oldsmobile Cutlass heading west in lane one. Vehicle 1 was making a left turn and as it did Vehicle 2's front hit Vehicle 1 in the right side. Both vehicles began to spin-Vehicle 1 counter-clockwise and Vehicle 2 clockwise. As they spun around, Vehicle 1's front left corner contacted Vehicle 2's left side. Vehicle 1 then spun a little more and started going backwards and hit Vehicle 3, a parked vehicle . Vehicle 3 was pushed into Vehicle 4 which was parked as well. After hitting Vehicle 3, Vehicle 1 bounced back and its front right corner struck Vehicle 2's front left tire. Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 came to final rest in this position on the northwest corner of the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of Vehicle 1 was unknown and the plates did not match the vehicle, and the juveniles took off by foot.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle 1 was this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was coded as a driver error unknown as the driver and passengers fled the scene. Although, there were no interviews conducted on scene some assumptions could be made that if the vehicle was stolen that would explain the high rate of speed and why the occupants fled the scene.

Vehicle 2 was driven by a 57-year-old male, he stated that he had just left the store and was going to pick up his wife from work. He just pulled out of the store and was only going about 8-16 kmph (5-10 mph) in lane one when Vehicle 1 was speeding down the turn lane and just turned in front of him.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle 2 was other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction, over the left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Crtical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle, as he was not thought to have contributed to the crash. Some associative factors related to this vehicle are the fact that the driver reports that since he had recently suffered a stroke he would only drive about once per/week. He also stated in the interview that he rarely drives this particular roadway.