This two-vehicle crash occurred in a 4-way highway interchange on an early weekend evening. The main road runs east/west. On the east side of the intersection, there were six undivided lanes of travel (3 in each direction). On the west side, there were six lanes divided by a raised concrete curb median (3 in each direction). Eastbound traffic had 2 straight lanes and 1 right turn lane onto a limited access highway. Westbound traffic had 2 straight lanes and 1 left turn-only lane onto the southbound limited access highway. The southbound roadway was a 3-lane on-ramp that intersected with the main roadway and was controlled by a traffic light. Conditions were daylight and clear with no adverse atmospheric conditions. The posted speed limit for east/west traffic was 72 kmph (45 mph).

Vehicle 1 was a 2001 Dodge Caravan minivan with one occupant that was traveling west in lane 3, approaching the highway interchange. Vehicle 2, a 1999 Ford F-250 pickup truck with two occupants, was traveling east in lane 2 approaching the same highway interchange. Vehicle 1 turned left in front of Vehicle 2 and they collided on an angle. The front right corner of V1 contacted the front center of V2. Both vehicles deflected and came to final rest side by side facing southeast in the southeast corner of the intersection. The collision caused the front wheels of V1 to fall off. The driver of V1 was not injured. The driver of V2 was transported to a hospital with evident injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 41-year-old male who was on his way home from a friend's house when the crash occurred. He did not report having any fatigue, emotional or health related issues. He said he was stopped in the intersection with the intention of turning left onto the southbound highway on-ramp of the expressway. He claimed to have had a solid green light and started to proceed when V2 failed to stop for him. He hit the brakes when he realized V2 wasn't stopping. He saw V2 coming, but thought it should have yielded for him since he had a green light. He admitted that this was his first time on this roadway and he was not familiar with the traffic flow patterns. Police suspected him of being impaired by drugs and alcohol, but this was disproved. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded: "This vehicle traveling: turning left at an intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as a decision error - false assumption of other's actions. The driver of V1 and V2 both had green lights. The driver of V1 failed to recognize that he had a solid green and not a green arrow. He didn't realize that he had to yield the right of way since he was making a left turn. Another associated factor was his being unfamiliar with the roadway. He claimed this had been his first time on the roadway. Inattention due to a financial problem was coded as associated factor in this crash.

V2 was driven by a 28-year-old female who was on her way home from work when the crash occurred. She reported no fatigue or emotional issues. She was driving straight ahead at 72 kmph (45 mph) when V1 made a left turn in front of her. She hit the foot brakes and steered right, but could not stop and struck V1 at an angle with the front center of her vehicle. She claimed to have had a solid green light as she entered the intersection. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front end damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded: "Other motor vehicle encroachment: from opposite direction over left lane line." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle. The driver of V2 was talking with her father-in-law, who was a passenger in her vehicle at the time of the crash. The driver of V2 was also not licensed and has been involved in other crashes as reported by official records.