This two-vehicle collision occurred at the intersection of a four-lane roadway and a two-lane roadway. The four-lane road is undivided, straight and slightly downhill. The speed limit on the four-lane road is 48 kmph (30 mph). The two-lane road is undivided, straight and up hill. The speed limit on the two-lane road is 40 kmph (25 mph). This crash occurred in the early morning hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one, a 2001 White Ford F250 was northbound in the second lane. Vehicle two, a 1990 Mercury Topaz was stopped westbound on the two-lane roadway. Vehicle two began to turn right and the left side of vehicle two was impacted by the front of vehicle one. Both vehicles came to rest in the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a thirty-four year old male was heading to pick up a friend and then head to work at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about thirty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a sixteen-year old female had just gotten up and was driving her mother to work. This driver had just dropped a person off at their home. This driver had been driving for about thirty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver was not licensed. This driver stated that she had stopped, and looked left. Her mother then asked her a question and she looked right and proceeded to turn right. This driver had been driving for about one year and drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into same direction. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was not coded to this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning right at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see). The driver was distracted by her conversation and failed to look to the left before making her right turn.