The crash occurred on a two-way, two-lane undivided roadway. This was a straight, level, asphalt road, with a posted speed of 48 kmph (30 mph). Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon with cloudy skies. It was raining, and the pavement was wet. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 1999 Lincoln Continental with three occupants, was parked (facing south) on the left side of the roadway, in a grassy swale. V2, a 2000 Ford Expedition with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane one. As V2 approached V1's location, V1 attempted to cross the roadway, into a driveway across the street. The right side of V1 made contact with the front of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

V1, the Lincoln Continental, was driven by a 31-year old female, who was not injured. She stated that she was on her way to the bank. She said that before she got into her car, she did not notice anyone coming from that direction. She started to pull across the road, with the intention of turning her vehicle around in her neighbor's driveway. She admitted that she did not look to see if anyone was coming prior to pulling out.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the right side of travel lane." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver related decision error, inadequate surveillance. The driver did not look in the required direction to complete a safe maneuver. One associated factor for this driver was inattention. The driver indicated that this had become a routine maneuver for her, which did not require much thought or focus. Another associated factor was the driver's decision to turn without using a turn signal. Other factors were the presence of wet pavement and rain.

V2, the Ford Expedition, was driven by a 46-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he was on his way to deliver some cough medicine to his brother. He said that he was traveling slow, due to the residential area and inclement weather. He saw the parked car, but did not believe the vehicle was going to pull in front of him. When the other car turned in front of him, the driver applied his antilock brakes, but could not stop in time.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment, from same direction, over the left lane line." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors for this driver were the presence of wet pavement and rain.