This two-vehicle crash occurred several hours after noon on a dry, bituminous, straight, physically divided, four-leg, residential roadway with no traffic controls. The roadway runs east/west at the location of the crash and has one lane running in each direction. The traffic lanes are separated by an 18.3-meter (60 feet) curbed with sod median. The speed limit on the roadway is 48 kph (30 mph) and there were no adverse weather conditions at the time. The north/south roadway is a two way, two-lane roadway leading to a residential area. Traffic on the residential street is controlled by stop signs before entering or crossing the intersection.

Vehicle one, a 2003 Nissan Pathfinder, with one occupant, was westbound turning left, proceeding southbound and passing through the intersection. Vehicle two, a 1992 Chevrolet Beretta, with two occupants, was eastbound going straight. Vehicle one entered the intersection at the same time vehicle two was going through it. To avoid the crash, vehicle two swerved right while locking up the brakes for 6.9 meters before the front of vehicle two struck the right rear of vehicle one. After the impact, vehicle one rotated clockwise and entered the northbound lane on the south side of the residential roadway and rolled over four quarter turns. After the impact, vehicle one came to rest on its wheels facing northwest in the northbound lane. After the impact, vehicle two rotated slightly clockwise and came to rest on its wheels facing southbound in the middle of the north and southbound lanes at the intersection. Vehicle one was equipped with a driver and right frontal airbag, which did not deploy. The driver was wearing her lap and shoulder belt and was transported to a trauma center with non-incapacitating injuries. The vehicle was towed from the crash due to moderate right side damage. Vehicle two was equipped with a driver airbag, which did not deploy. The driver was wearing her lap and shoulder belt and was not injured. The vehicle was towed from the crash due to moderate frontal damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.

Driver one was driven by a forty-two year old female, who according to the police at the scene had a smell of alcohol on her breath, but later found not to have any. It is unknown where she was coming from or going to, because she refused to cooperate at the hospital and would not contact the Researcher after several attempts. Medical records states tests were negative for alcohol and drugs. The record also states the driver was under a lot of stress and is unemployed. She does smoke and takes Ortho-Novum.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for vehicle one was "This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection". The Critical Reason was coded "type of driver error unknown'' due to no interview

Driver two was driven by a seventeen-year-old female with one occupant. They had just gotten out of school, drove less then a mile and were driving home. The driver drives this road daily and felt comfortable with the vehicle and passenger. The driver took drivers education in high school and has had her license for one year. She is near sighted and was wearing her contacts at the time of the crash. She takes no medication and does not work out on a regular basis. She slept 6.5 hours the night before and felt a little tired when she woke up. She usually sleeps eight to nine hours a night. Being a high school student, she works ten hours a week.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for vehicle one was "Other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path". The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to this driver include listening to the radio and conversation with the occupant.