This two-vehicle crash occurred at a four-way intersection that is controlled by traffic lights on colors. There are two eastbound and two westbound lanes that are separated by a two-way left turn lane. There are two southbound and two northbound lanes that are separated by a two-way left turn lane. The speed limit on both roadways is posted at 64 kmph (40 mph). Both roadways were straight, level and constructed of bituminous asphalt. The roadways were dry and the sky was cloudy at the time of the morning daylight crash.

Vehicle one (V1), 2006 Chrysler PT Cruiser with one occupant, was traveling southbound in the number two lane approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Ford F-550 pickup with two occupants, was westbound and decelerating in the number two-lane approaching the intersection. V2 was towing a 6-meter length (20-foot) trailer and was loaded with about 4,132 kilograms (2100 pounds) of cargo. V2 entered the intersection when V1 traveled across the path of his vehicle. The front of V2 struck the left side of V1. The impact caused V2 to rotate counterclockwise in the intersection coming to rest near the west side of the intersection across the eastbound lanes facing in a southeasterly direction. V1 rotated clockwise and traveled through the intersection coming to rest near the southwest corner of the intersection facing in a southwesterly direction. The vehicles came to rest within 3 meters (10 feet) of each other. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. The driver of V1 was transported to a medical facility. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

A 49-year old male drove V1. The driver does not remember anything about the crash. He said that he does remember getting into his vehicle when he left the hotel and then buckling his seat belt. He said that he does not have any health problems that he is aware of. He thinks the reason he does not remember anything about the crash is because he was hit so hard by the other vehicle. He said that he has been in town for the past 5 weeks as a contractor for the military. He said that he does not take medication. The car he was driving is a rental car that he has had for the past 5 weeks since he has been in town.

The Pre-event Movement for V1 was "going straight". The Critical Pre-crash Event was coded "this vehicle traveling-crossing over (passing through) intersection". The Critical reason was coded "driver related factor-type of driver error unknown. The reason could not be determined with the information obtained. The driver did not remember anything about the crash. Several motorists witnessed the crash and indications are this driver ran the red light at the intersection.

A 39-year old male drove V2. He said that he was traveling westbound in the second lane approaching the intersection. He said that he was slowing down prior to the intersection due to the dips in the intersection. He said that just as he entered the intersection, he saw V1 traveling south but it was too late to do anything. He was on his way to a job site coming from home. The driver stated that he is comfortable towing the trailer and the cargo that was in the bed and trailer of his vehicle. He was is in good health and was not tired at the time of the crash.

The Pre-event Movement for V-2 was coded "decelerating in traffic lane". The Critical Pre-crash Event was coded "other vehicle encroachment-from crossing street-across path". The Critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. There was no sight line restrictions noted at the scene for both drivers involved.