This three-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of the block in the westbound lane of travel. The roadway was wide and consisted of one eastbound and one westbound lane. These lanes were non-physically divided without dividing lines. Curbside parking was permitted on both sides of the east/westbound roadway. There were no signalized traffic control devices at this middle of the block location. The roads surfaces were bituminous dry and curved: curved right, southward for V1 and curved left, northward for V2. There were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit for both directions of travel was 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during the early morning daylight hours. The roadway was free of any defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.

Vehicle one, 1995 Mercury Marquis 4 door sedan, was traveling eastbound negotiating a right curve when it veered into the westbound lane and contacted with its front the front of vehicle two, a 1994 Honda Accord 4 door sedan traveling westbound in the opposite direction negotiating a left curve. After the initial impact, vehicle one steered right and contacted with its front right the rear of vehicle three, a 2001 GMC Yukon SUV, legally parked on the south side of the roadway where it came to final rest continuing to face eastward resting on the rear of V3. Vehicle two, after the initial impact, traveled a few feet, rotated counter-clockwise and came to final rest continuing to face westward. Vehicle three as a result of the impact was pushed slightly forward at final rest. Vehicle two was towed due to damages suffered from the impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a 23-year old male, said he was traveling eastbound on the two-way roadway talking on the cell phone when he saw vehicle two coming in the opposite direction around the curved roadway. He tried to avoid contact by first steering right then left and applying his brakes but it was too late. He crossed over into the westbound lane and crashed head-on with vehicle two. He then stated he steered right and contacted the rear of vehicle three which was legally parked on the south side of the street. He saw vehicle two as he was negotiating the curve but it seemed that everything started moving in slow motion. He's diabetic and takes insulate and he often finds himself tired. When asked if he could have been having a diabetic episode or blackout, he said, no. He said there is a lot going on in his life at present and couldn't and wouldn't begin to go in to details either now or later. He admits to being very stressed. He also said, he's often tired. He normally sleeps 8 hours a night. However, only slept 7 hours the night before. He was not injured.

The 'Critical Pre-Crash Event" coded to V1 is: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the left side of travel lane. The 'Critical Reason' coded to this vehicle was: recognition error, internal distraction. Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle includes: fatigue, driver normally sleeps 8hours a night, however, only slept 7 the previous night. Stress, driver said there's a lot going on in his life that he needs to sort out. Inadequate surveillance, failed to look far enough, inadequate/incorrect evasive actions, steering inputs, distractions, talking on the cell phone.

The driver of vehicle two, an 18-year old female, said she was traveling westbound around the curve when she saw vehicle one coming in the opposite direction. She noticed he was approaching slightly over more in her lane. This is not uncommon when you come around a curve and there're no centerlines, she said, however, drivers usually make the correction. She saw him steer right and left and that's when she started to worry, she pressed her brakes trying to avoid a crash but it was too late nothing she could do. She had just dropped the baby off at the baby-sitter and was glad the baby wasn't in the car. She's currently unemployed and looking for work. She's been a licensed driver for only 1-year. She was not injured.

The 'Critical Pre-Crash Event" coded to V2 is: other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over left lane line. The 'Critical Reason' was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle include: inexperience driver, driver has only been licensed for 1-year, and driving slightly over the speed limit, she was traveling 35 mph on a 25 mph roadway. When asked what the speed limit was for the road, she didn't know for sure.

Vehicle three was legally parked on the south side of the roadway. The owner/driver was not available for comments.

The 'Critical Pre-Crash Event" coded to V3 is: not involve in the first harmful event. The 'Critical Reason' was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associated factors coded to the owner/driver of this vehicle.