This two-vehicle crash took place on an east/west roadway that had two lanes of travel in either direction and had a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). There was also a shoulder lane on either side of the road, although parking on the right (or north) side of the street near the intersection was illegal because there was a bus stop on the northeast corner. The asphalt surface was dry and free of any defect and the roadway was straight and level.

Vehicle 1 (V1), a 2004 Chrysler Concorde driven by a 35-year-old male, was traveling in lane one, heading west. He explained that his intentions were to proceed straight through the upcoming intersection. He acknowledged that traffic to his left in lane 2 was stopped as the lead vehicle in lane 2 was sitting in the intersection yielding to oncoming traffic as it waited to make a left turn. He also acknowledged that other vehicles in lane 2 wanted to pull around the stopped vehicle, but that he had the right of way. There was another vehicle ahead of him and to his right that was illegally stopped in the right shoulder lane (V2). As he proceeded, a non-contact vehicle that had been stopped in lane 2 pulled out in front of V1 at a high rate of speed, and made a rapid movement into lane 1 and proceeded on through the intersection. Describing this event, the driver of V1 stated, " I was either going to get hit by him or hit the parked car" (verbatim). The driver also acknowledged that he was hoping that he could successfully avoid any contact with any vehicle, but there just wasn't enough room. After being cut-off from his left, V1 steered right and applied the brakes without lock-up and struck the left rear side and wheel of V2 and then struck V2 again on its left side towards the front. V1 left a skid mark with its right front tire due to damage. At V1's final rest, its front had just entered the intersection. V1 had to be towed from the scene due to damage it sustained to its front right wheel. This driver was very familiar with this roadway and stated that he has long thought that there should be a left-turn lane there. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

Vehicle 2 (V2), a 1998 Plymouth Voyager minivan driven by a 63-year-old male, was stopped with its engine running in the right shoulder lane. During an on-scene interview, the driver was asked if he knew that it was illegal to stop there and that there was a sign that marked where parking in this shoulder lane was no longer legal due to the bus stop. His first reaction to this was concern that he might be issued a ticket. He then acknowledged that he was aware of the sign, but explained that he frequently dropped his nephew off at this bus stop and had never had a problem before. He also acknowledged that he had been stopped for as long as five minutes because he had been discussing social plans regarding the family. It was during this discussion that he stated that V1 "Hit us from nowhere" (verbatim). V2 was pushed right up against the curb and moved less than 3 feet to its final rest.

The Critical Pre-crash Event coded to V1 was: This vehicle traveling over the lane line on the right side of travel. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was an incorrect evasive action, a driver-related factor. An associated factor coded to this driver was traveling too fast for conditions, because the degree of damage to V1 and V2 indicated that he had some speed when he struck V2. Given the fact that the driver of V1 knew that vehicles in lane 2 wanted to enter his lane, it would have been prudent for the driver of V1 to reduce his speed rather than maintaining it or increasing it.

The Critical Pre-crash Event coded to V2 was: Other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane (same direction) - over left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to the driver of V2 were conversation with his passenger and an illegal action for stopping in a shoulder lane where stopping was not permitted.