This crash occurred at an eastbound lane of a four-lane roadway. There were two eastbound and two westbound lanes. The crash occurred on a weekend afternoon. The weather was clear and sunny. The roadway was dry, level, asphalt. The speed was posted at 56 kmph (35 mph).

V1, a 1998 Chevrolet Cavalier was heading west waiting to turn left in lane two. V2, a 2001 Pontiac Gram Am was heading east in lane two behind other vehicles that were turning left. The east and west bound traffic sat at the red light waiting for the green light. After the light turned green the vehicles in lane two on both sides of the intersection were waiting to turn left. V1 noted there were no vehicles in lane one in the opposite direction so it started its left turn, as it did so, the driver noted a vehicle (V2) moving into lane one on the west side of the intersection. The driver and the occupant of V1 thought V2 was going to turn right into the same roadway so the driver of V1 continued her left turn contacting V2. V1's front contacted the left front side of V2 rotating it clockwise to face southeast at final rest in the intersection. V1 was facing south for final rest in the intersection. The driver and the occupant of V1 were not injured from the crash. The driver of V2 was injured but refused to be seen by EMS personal or to be transported. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage V2 was drivable. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of Vehicle 1, a 1998 Chevrolet Cavalier was a 16 year-old female that states she is in good health and is not taking any medications at this time and does not wear corrective licenses. She states that she has never taken drivers education of any kind and is not a licensed driver. She has driven her aunt to a few appointments in the past months. This is the only driving she has done. She states that her aunt has a seizer disorder and that it had been a few days since her aunt had any medications for her condition and was afraid of driving to pick up her medications so she offered to drive her aunt. She stated that as she approached the intersection the traffic light turned red. After waiting for the traffic light to turn green she looked across the intersection and saw vehicles waiting to turn left but there were no vehicles in lane one so she started her turn, at that time she saw a vehicle moving from lane two to lane one she stated she thought this vehicle was going to turn right at the intersection. She continued her turn and contacted the eastbound vehicle in the middle of the intersection-rotating counter clockwise to face south for final rest. Neither she nor her aunt were injured in the crash.

The occupant of Vehicle 1 stated that she is the aunt of the driver and that the vehicle was hers. She stated her nice offered to drive her to the pharmacy to pick up her medication. She thought the vehicle was going to turn right at the intersection. She does not remember if V2 had there right turn signal on.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded: “This vehicle traveling - turning left at intersection”. The Critical Reason for the critical event was coded: “Driver related error, decision error false assumption of other action”. Associated factors to this vehicle are the driver is not license or has never had proper drivers training.

The driver of Vehicle 2 a 2001 Pontiac Grand Prix was a 22 year-old male that stated he is in good health and is not taking any medication at this time. He did stated he does wear corrective lenses for myopic (near sightedness). This driver stated that he was traveling this roadway in lane two and moved over into lane one were the roadway opened into two lanes in each direction. He stated as he traveled east in lane one he saw the vehicle waiting to turn left. He did not think the vehicle would turn left in front of him. He also stated that at the last second V1 turned and contacted the left front area of his vehicle, he rotated to face southeast to final rest.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded: “Other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line”. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.

The two witness's reported on the police report had contact information that was of no use and were not able to be contacted. These witness were released from the scene before the officer gave this researcher any information about the crash scene.