This three-vehicle crash occurred in the northbound lane of a three lane roadway. There were two northbound lanes: one for the continuation of northbound travel, and one for turning left. There was one southbound lane. On both sides of the street there were parking lanes. Signalized traffic control devices controlled all directions of travel. The asphalt roadways were dry, level, and straight and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit was 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during the late night dark hours. Streetlights illuminated the dark roadway. The roadway was free of any defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.

Vehicle one, 1999 Chevrolet Malibu 4-door sedan, was traveling southbound through the intersection when he contacted with front the left of vehicle two, a 2002 Cadillac Escalade large utility, traveling northbound through the same intersection. Vehicle one after the initial contact with vehicle two, rotated counter clockwise 180 degrees and contacted with its front the back of vehicle three, a 1998 Chevrolet Lumina 4-door sedan, legally parked on the northeast corner of the northbound travel lanes. Vehicle two, after the initial contact with vehicle one rotated clockwise traveling several feet where it came to final rest inches from and facing the northeast curb edge. Vehicles one and two suffered severe damages and were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a 29-year old female, said she was southbound prior to entering the intersection. She entered the eastbound turning lane and when the traffic light turned green she preceded with her left turn. She said, there was a police car parked on the northeast corner with its lights on, possibly high beams. The glare was so bright she did not see vehicle two also entering the intersection 180 degrees from the opposite direction and just about half way through the intersection her vehicle made contact with vehicle two. She travels on the roadway daily and besides the parked vehicle with its lights on there was nothing particularly unusual about the roadway. She said, she felt well rested and had slept her usual 7-hours a night. She was going out to party before getting into this crash. She's been a licensed driver for over 11-years, however she did not have her license on her person and the PAR list her license number as, NONE. Her travel speed was 56 kmph (35 mph) ten miles over the posted speed limit. She was not injured.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V1 is: “this vehicle traveling, turning left at the intersection”. The Critical Reason coded for this vehicle was: “glare, vehicle lights”, an environmental related factor. Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle include: looked but did nit see and, traveling 10 mph over the posted speed limit,

The driver of vehicle two, a 24-year old female, after several attempts were made, could not be reached for comments. She and her passenger were transported to the hospital with non-life threatening injuries.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V2 is: “other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over the left lane line”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle because she could not be reached for comments.

Vehicle three was legally parked and was not involved in the first harmful event.