This crash occurred in the center of a 4-way controlled intersection. The east/west approach was a 4-lane undivided roadway with 2 lanes in each direction. The north/south approach was a 2-lane undivided roadway with one lane in each direction. All involved roads were level, straight, and bituminous. The posted speed limit of the east/west approach was 64 kmph (40 mph) and the north/south approach was 40 kmph (25 mph). A traffic control device without pedestrian signal controlled the intersection. The crash occurred in the early morning of a weekday, before rush-hour traffic. The road was dry and skies were clear. The traffic flow was light.

V1, a Honda Odyssey minivan with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane one when it entered the intersection without stopping for a red light. V2, a 1999 Chrysler Concorde 4-door with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane one when it entered the intersection. The drivers of both vehicles did not see the other vehicle until the collision occurred and did not have time to avoid the collision. V1's left front struck the right front quarter panel of V2. Both vehicles came to final rest within a couple of meters of point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Honda Odyssey, was driven by a 37-year-old male who reported no injuries. The driver stated that he was traveling approximately the speed limit, 40 kmph (25 mph), when he passed through the intersection. The driver claimed that he had a yellow light when he entered the intersection and it must have turned red once he was already in the intersection. The driver was running an errand to the store before going to work this morning. He stated he was not in a hurry and did nothing to avoid the accident since he did not see V2 until it hit him.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "Other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle; however, several associated factors were coded to its driver. First, an illegal maneuver was coded to the driver of V1 because he ran a red light. In order for this crash to have occurred where it occurred in the intersection (in the beginning of both V1 and V2's travel lanes) the driver of V1 had to disregard the traffic control device and run the red light. A witness who was traveling behind V2 told police that she and V2 had a green light. Another associated factor coded to this driver was inattention because when interviewed, the driver stated that he didn't remember the last time he looked at the light before entering the intersection. Inadequate surveillance was coded as an associated factor because the driver of V1 stated that he never saw V1 until impact.

V2, the Chrysler Concorde, was driven by a 20-year-old female who reported no injuries. The driver stated that she was on her way to work and was stopped at the intersection with a red light for about 30 seconds. Then the light turned green and she proceeded into the intersection and felt the impact. Until this point, she did not see V1, since she was looking straight ahead the whole time and not looking around the intersection. The driver stated that she could not have been going more than 16-24 kmph (10-15 mph) at the time of the collision because she was coming from a complete stop.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "This vehicle traveling-crossing over (passing through) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as inadequate surveillance, because the driver of V1 failed to look ahead and to the side before she entered the intersection. Had she looked, she might have observed V1 approaching and could have waited for V1 to pass before pulling into the intersection. No additional associated factors were coded to this driver.