This two-vehicle crash occurred in a curve of a north/south undivided road on an early weekend evening. There was one north lane and two south lanes, with lane 2 being a left turn lane for southbound traffic to turn left into a neighborhood. The posted speed limit was 72 kmph (45 mph). Conditions were cloudy and wet due to a heavy rainstorm that just began. The southbound road curved right and had a negative 4 percent slope.

VI, a 2001 Mitsubishi Eclipse convertible with three occupants, was traveling southbound negotiating a right curve in lane one. V2, a 2003 Toyota Sequoia sport utility vehicle with two occupants, was traveling northbound negotiating the same curve in lane one. While negotiating the right curve, V1 began hydroplaning, crossed the left turn lane, then the double yellow line and contacted V2 on the front left corner. In an attempt to lessen the impact, V2 had departed the roadway to the right onto a sidewalk. V2 came to final rest on the sidewalk. After impact, V1 rotated and came to final rest in the northbound lane facing east. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

V1, the Mitsubishi Eclipse, was driven by an 18-year-old male who was a full time student in high school. He reported driving in lane 1 at 72 kmph (45 mph). He claimed it was pouring rain and he had his windshield wipers on high. He and his two passengers were on their way from a grocery store back to their friend's house. The three friends in the car were talking and singing while listening to the radio. While negotiating the right curve, the roadway changed from older bituminous pavement to new bituminous pavement. When they hit the new patch of pavement, the car hydroplaned. The driver steered right in an attempt to regain control, but was unsuccessful. When the driver knew the impact with V2 was imminent, he hit the brakes as a last resort attempt to lessen the impact.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling over the left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver error- traveling too fast for conditions (roadway wet from heavy rain storm). Even though the driver may not have been exceeding the posted speed limit, he was traveling too fast based on the conditions of the wet roadway. Another associated factor was driver distraction. The driver had two passengers in the car; they were listening to the radio, singing, and conversing. Driver inexperience may have been a factor also. The driver only had two years of driving experience. A vehicle-related factor was the tires. The tires had low tread depth and contributed to the vehicle hydroplaning. Both the weather (rain) and the condition of the roadway (wet) were also coded as associated factors.

V2, the Toyota Sequoia, was driven by a 42-year-old female who worked full time. She was driving her daughter to a party from her residence when the crash occurred. She reported that it just started to downpour rain and she turned her windshield wipers on. As she approached the left hand curve, she saw a small silver car coming at her head-on. She braked and steered right onto a sidewalk to avoid hitting the car. She was unable to avoid the impact and was struck on the left front side by V2. She was not injured in the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction, over the left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle. Associated factors coded to this driver include conversation with the passenger, the weather, and the wet roadway.