A two vehicle rear-end daytime collision occurred on a Wednesday during evening rush hour traffic. The collision occurred on a divided, dry, level, concrete highway with six westbound lanes including one HOV lane. The highway is designated 105 kmph (65 mph). There is a slight curve before the crash area. Sun glare was present at the time for westbound traffic.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan with two occupants, was traveling west in the number one lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Toyota Camry with one occupant, was traveling west in the number one lane an unknown distance in front of V1. Rush hour traffic came to a stop and the driver of V2 braked to a stop behind other vehicles. V1 continued forward and the front of the vehicle struck the rear plane of V2. Both vehicles came to rest at impact. Both vehicles were moved to the shoulder of the road. V1 was towed while V2 was driven. None of the occupants were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 22 year-old female with 5 years of driving experience. The driver has a myopic (near sighted) condition. She was wearing her prescription glasses at the time of the crash, as it is a restriction on her license. She has never taken driver's education. She was on her way to buy her books for school at the time. She was talking and looking at the right front passenger just before the crash. The passenger was her 21-year old boyfriend. The driver did attempt to brake just prior to impact, but not in time to avoid the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded “other motor vehicle in lane - other vehicle stopped”. The critical reason for V1 was coded “internal distraction”. The driver was looking at and talking to the right front passenger.

The driver of V2 is a 62 year-old male. The researcher was unable to locate the driver or the vehicle for the interview and inspection. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded “other motor vehicle in lane - traveling in same direction with higher speed”. A critical reason was not assigned to V2.