The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a high-volume, high-speed interstate highway. There were five lanes running southbound with emergency paved shoulders and concrete barrier walls on the left side of the roadway. The posted speed was 105 kmph (65 mph) and the roadway was straight and level. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekday afternoon.

Vehicle 1 was a 1997 Chevy Malibu was traveling in lane two. V2 a 2001 Toyota Avalon was traveling in lane three. V1 decided to change lanes into lane three, as he changed into lane three as V1's left side contacted V2's right side. V2 just felt him hit her back right door then she started to spin clockwise out of control. V3 was a 2006 Volkswagen Jetta that was traveling in lane one. The driver of V3 said that V1 was spinning out of control and was coming at him, he tried to steer to the left to avoid impact but, it was impossible as he had traffic to his left and did not want to make contact with anyone else. Both V1 and V2 continued off the roadway to the right grassy shoulder and made final rest. V1 made final rest facing southbound and V2 made contact with a power pole that ran the amber alert message signs and a chain link fence V2 was facing northbound off the roadway. The grassy shoulder where V2 made final rest had less than a 2% downhill grade. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

V1, a 1997 Chevy Malibu was driven by a 37-year-old male who stated he was traveling in lane two going the speed limit 105 kmph (65 mph) when he saw a white car from the left. he wasn't trying to change lanes he was just trying to maintain his speed in his lane. He said it all happened so fast all he knows is that the white car hit him aft he started to spin.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1, was “this vehicle traveling over the left side of the travel lane”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was “inadequate surveillance”, as he did not even look before he changed lanes nor did he see V2 in the lane. The driver was not injured and his vehicle was not towed due to damages. An associative factor related to the driver was sleep. He mentioned in the interview that he had only slept for 3.5 hours. He also mentioned that he was a professional truck driver and his sleep pattern changes according to what shifts he works for that particular week. He did mention also that his normal sleep pattern was 6 hours/per/night. So the driver was fatigued, as he did not get his regular amount of sleep. He was cited a ticket for causing the crash, improper lane change.

V2, a 2001 Toyota Avalon was driven by a 57-year-old woman who stated she was driving along when she saw the gold car try to cut into her lane from lane 2. Since he was a little bit behind her she wasn't sure if he was going to hit her. Before she could do anything she felt him hit her right side door and it caused her to start to spin clockwise. He was spinning too and then she just remembered going sideways off the roadway to the right into the fence. There was nothing she could do to avoid the impact because she had cars to her right and to her left.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2, was “other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane over the right lane line”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle, as she was not thought to have contributed to the crash. She was not injured but her vehicle was towed due to damages. She stated in her interview that she was unable to avoid the collision as V1 was slightly behind her to the right and once he made contact with her vehicle she stared to spin out of control. There were no associative factors related to this driver.

V3, a 2006 Volkswagen Jetta was driven by a 26-year-old male who stated that he was was traveling in lane one. He saw the gold vehicle was in front of him in lane two when he just all of a sudden made a lane change into lane three and hit the white Toyota causing both vehicles to spin out of control. He saw the gold car coming at him so he tried to swerve left the gold car ended up hitting my right side as he spun out of control off the roadway. He saw the whole thing happen right in font of him. He didn't thing the gold car saw the white one in that lane before he changed over.

The Critical Pre-crash Event and Critical Reason for V3, was not coded to this vehicle as he was not involved in the first harmful event. The driver was not injured and his vehicle was not towed due to damages. There were no associative factors related to this driver.