This three-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of a two-lane roadway and a five-lane roadway. This intersection is controlled by a traffic light with pedestrian controls. The five-lane road has two-lanes in either direction with a left turn lane. The two-lane roadway is constructed of brick. The roads have a speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one, a 2002 Ford Econoline van was westbound in the first lane of the two-lane. Vehicle two, a 1999 Ford Taurus was northbound in the first lane. Vehicle three, a 1998 Mercury Villager mini van was northbound in the second lane slightly behind vehicle two. Vehicle one entered the intersection to turn right at the intersection and the front of vehicle two impacted the left of vehicle one. Vehicle one and vehicle two then side slapped with vehicle one's left side impacting vehicle two's right side. The front of vehicle three then impacted the left side of vehicle two. All three vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a forty-two year old male was heading to work at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about thirty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver is taking Propecia and Tylenol as medications. This driver had seven and one-half hours of sleep the night before. This driver indicated that he thought the light was still green and he was following a car into the intersection. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a twenty one year old male was heading to work from home at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about ten minutes at the time of the crash. This driver is taking Rhinocort as a medication. This driver received seven hours of sleep the previous night. This driver indicated that he saw vehicle one enter the road and braked but could not avoid the crash. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of vehicle three, a thirty-eight year old female was heading from home to a doctors appointment for one of her children, an 8 year old male and a 14 month old male, at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about fifteen minutes at the time of the crash. The driver of vehicle three was taking Zoloft and Motrin at the time of the crash. This driver indicated that she saw vehicle one enter the roadway and impact vehicle two but could not avoid vehicle two when it moved over following the crash. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over the road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning right at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into same direction. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was not coded to this vehicle.

Vehicle three was not involved in first harmful event and the critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.