This two vehicle rear-end type crash occurred in a four-legged stop light controlled intersection. This intersection has six-lanes for the east to west travel lanes and four-lanes for the north to south roadways. This intersection lies on a +4 percent grade for the west to east lanes with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred during daylight with no adverse weather and no obvious defects. This intersection is light controlled with no pedestrian cross lights.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Nissan Sentra was eastbound in the third lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Dodge Neon was eastbound in the third lane in front of V1. V2 slowed for a yellow light and the front of V1 impacted the rear of V2. Both vehicles came to rest in the third lane in the intersection. V1 was towed due to damage. V2 was not towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, seventeen-year-old female was on her way to a lunch break from high school and was in a hurry to get to a fast food restaurant. As they approached this intersection from the west the light changed from green to yellow. This driver was following V2, as they were friends. This driver had four teenagers in the vehicle with her. This driver stated that she was following behind V2 and when the light turned yellow she assumed V2 would continue. This driver stated that she always drives like this as they have very little time for lunch. This driver has only been driving for about one year. This driver drives this vehicle daily. This driver was taking Effexor as a medication.

The driver of V2, a seventeen-year-old female was on her way to lunch from high school and was in a hurry to get to lunch. This driver stated that as she approached the light and the light turned yellow she was going to run through the light but a passenger told her that there was a police car at the intersection. This driver applied the brakes and had almost stopped when she got rear-ended. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.