This two vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of a three lane uncontrolled roadway and a two lane road that is controlled with a stop sign. The three-lane road has one lane in either direction and a center two-way left turn lane. Both roads are straight and level. The speed limit on both roads is 56 kph (35 mph). This crash occurred during nighttime hours with no additional lighting and no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one, a 1997 Dodge pickup was westbound on the two-lane road. Vehicle two, a 1997 Dodge Stratus was southbound in the first lane of the three-lane roadway. Vehicle one started from the stop sign and was impacted on its right side by the front of vehicle two. Vehicle two broke with lock-up to avoid the crash. Vehicle one was not towed due to damage. Vehicle two was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, an eighteen-year-old male had just left his house enroute to his brother's house. This driver had been driving for about two minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that he had been stopped at the stop sign for about 10 seconds before proceeding. The driver looked left then right and left again. Vehicle two was coming from this driver's right. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis. Fatigue is not considered a factor for this driver.

The driver of vehicle two, a forty-year old female was not interviewed and there is no known sleep or work information on this driver.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as “this vehicle traveling: crossing over [passing through] intersection”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for this crash was attributed to this vehicle and was coded as “driver related factor: inadequate surveillance”. The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “other vehicle encroachment: from crossing street across path”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “not coded to this vehicle”.