This two-vehicle collision occurred in a four-way traffic signal controlled intersection. The intersection is controlled by a traffic signal. The main road is a five-lane divided roadway. There are two through lanes in either direction and a left turn lane at the intersection. For westbound traffic the road is downhill. The posted speed limit is 56 kph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse weather conditions.

Vehicle one, a 1994 Dodge Caravan was stopped at the intersection in the third lane (left turn lane). Vehicle two, a 2003 Pontiac Bonneville was eastbound in the first lane. Vehicle one turned left at the intersection. The front of vehicle one impacted the front of vehicle two. Vehicle two then deflected of and impacted a utility pole with its front plane. Vehicle one came to rest in the intersection. Vehicle two came to rest against the utility pole. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a thirty-one year old female was taking her daughter to school at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about fifteen minutes at the time of the crash. This driver was at the light and when the light turned yellow saw the other vehicles stop. This driver assumed all vehicles were stopping. This driver was taking Diovan as medications. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road daily.

The driver of vehicle two, a fifty-nine year old female was driving to work at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about fifteen minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that she was thinking about work, extended work hours. This driver is taking Welbutrin SR, Effexor XR, Medroxyprogesterone and Vitamins as medications. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as "this vehicle traveling: turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded as "driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions." The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "other vehicle encroachment: from opposite direction-over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded as "not coded to this vehicle."