This nighttime two-vehicle non-junction rear end collision, resulting in a fire, occurred on a concrete, divided, two-way, five-lane, straight, level, and lit roadway. No traffic control devices other than posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). No adverse weather conditions were present. Both vehicles were towed due to damage.

Vehicle two (V2), a Red 1932 Ford Model B 2-door coupe was disabled in lane one due to an engine stall. The driver of V2, a 63-year-old male, who was out of vehicle and standing at the right front of V2 checking the vehicle's choke in order to start it again. Vehicle one (V1), a Tan 2003 Chevrolet Cavalier 4 sedan occupied by a restrained 44-year-old male driver, was traveling south in lane one with the intention of going straight. V1 driver, who travels the roadway several times a month, was on a leisure night out and headed to a gambling establishment. The driver of V1 was internally distracted due to adjusting radio while driving. The driver stated that he was trying to tune the radio to a sporting event and when he looked up he saw disabled V2 in roadway. V1's driver was unable to perform avoidance actions and collided into the rear of V2. Upon impact both vehicles were engulfed in flames due to V2's metal fuel tank (mounted at rear of vehicle) rupturing at impact. At impact V2 struck the driver who was outside the vehicle. V1 came to rest in lane one facing south and V2 was pushed off to the right of roadway were it came to rest facing south. The former driver of V2 was hit by his own vehicle and thrown backwards onto sidewalk. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 is coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event is coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 is coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle.