This two-vehicle crash occurred early evening during daylight hours on a two lane, two-way roadway. There is one northbound lane and one southbound lane that is separated by a painted centerline stripe. This was a straight level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 80 kmph (50 mph). It was a late afternoon and the road was dry and the sky was clear.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Ford Focus 3 door Hatchback driven by a 22 year-old male with one passenger was traveling northbound attempting to pass V-1 at a police reported speed of 96 kmph (60 mph). Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Chevrolet 1500 4x2 pickup driven by a 24 year-old male with one passenger was traveling northbound at a police reported speed of 48 kmph (30 MPH). V1 was attempting to pass V2 when the driver steered back into the northbound lane to avoid a southbound vehicle. The right front corner of V1 struck the left side of V2. The impact caused V2 to rotate clockwise and travel off the right side of the roadway in a northeasterly direction. V2 continued to travel off the right side of the roadway while rotating until the left rear corner struck a metal pole. V2 traveled over the pole backwards in a northerly direction until it came to rest with the Left Front tire on the pole. V1 traveled off the right side of the roadway in a northeasterly direction until it came to rest to the north of V2 facing in a northwesterly direction. The vehicles came to rest within 2 meters (7 feet) of each other. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 stated that he was traveling northbound behind V2. He deiced to pass V2 and almost had passed the vehicle when he saw a southbound vehicle approaching. He said that he steered to the right to avoid that vehicle and struck V2. The driver of V2 stated that he was traveling northbound when V1 tried to pass him on his left. He said that the vehicle then got back into the lane and struck the left side of his vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on right side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from adjacent lane (same direction)- over left lane line. Critical reason coded to this vehicle.