This two-vehicle crash occurred on a six-lane non-divided asphalt constructed roadway. This roadway runs east to west with a painted center left-turn lane. The posted speed limit is 72 kmph (45 mph) with no adverse weather and no obvious roadway defects. This crash occurred during daylight with good visibility and light traffic conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Ford Taurus was westbound in the third lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Mercury Grand Marquis was westbound in the second lane. As V1 was westbound a non-contact vehicle departed a driveway and from the center turn lane entered the third lane. The driver of V1 steered right into the second lane. The front of V2 impacted the right front of V1. V1 came to rest in the center turn lane. V2 came to rest in the third lane. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-five year old female was bringing the passenger to a store at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about forty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver indicated that she saw the other (non-contact) vehicle pull into the center turn lane. This driver slowed by taking her foot off the gas and as she neared the non-contact vehicle, it suddenly entered the third lane. This driver steered to the right to avoid the non-contact vehicle and the impact with V2 occurred. This driver has only had this vehicle for three months. This driver drives this roadway weekly.

The driver of V2, a seventy-eight year old male was heading to a store at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about thirty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver indicated that he did not see V1 until it had entered his travel lane. This driver is taking Procardia as a medication. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on right side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: incorrect evasive action.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from adjacent lane [same direction] - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.