This two-vehicle crash occurred at a T-intersection, which was not physically divided. Both sections of the roadway consisted of two lanes, one in each direction. A flashing light controlled the intersection. The north/south roadway had a flashing yellow beacon, warning drivers to be cautious when proceeding through the intersection. The westbound roadway had a flashing red beacon along with a stop sign. The bituminous roadways were straight. The eastbound roadway upon which vehicle one (V1) was traveling was level, whereas the northbound roadway upon which vehicle two (V2) was traveling had a slightly positive grade. The posted speed limit was 56kmph (35mph) for both vehicles. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash and the roadway was dry.

V1, a 2002 Volkswagen Jetta, was stopped facing west at the T-intersection preparing to make a right turn. V2, a 1996 Dodge Intrepid, was northbound approaching the same intersection where it intended to continue straight. As V1 entered the intersection the front left of V1 struck the right front of V2. The impact caused V1 to rotate clockwise approximately 10 degrees before coming to final rest facing west in the northbound lane. V2 continued forward and rotated counter clockwise before coming to final rest facing north in the southbound lane. Both vehicles had to be removed from the scene due to vehicle damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a 39 year-old female, was transported to the hospital for non-incapacitating injuries. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. Numerous attempts could not produce an interview with this driver. For this reason, it is unknown whether or not any fatigue or health related factors contributed to this crash.

Through evidence at the scene and information contained in the Police Report, the Critical Precrash Event for this vehicle was coded this vehicle traveling, turning right at intersection. The Critical Reason for this vehicle was coded as an unknown driver error. There were no known associated factors coded to V1.

The driver of V2, a 66 year-old female, suffered non-incapacitating injuries and was transported to the hospital for treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A partial interview was obtained from this driver; however, very little additional information was made evident. It is therefore unknown if any fatigue or health related issues contributed to this crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for this vehicle was coded other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, turning into same direction. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no known associated factors coded to V2.