A two vehicle collision occurred during dark morning hours . The collision occurred at the intersection of a north-south roadway and an arterial northeast-southwest roadway. The arterial roadway has four lanes of two-way traffic, and has a slight curve to the right and has an uphill grade of +5% in the direction of the crash vehicle. The north-south road is a side street with no lane markings and has a stop sign at the intersection with the arterial. The grade for the side street is +11% approaching the intersection. The speed limit for both roads is 48 kmph (30 mph). Road surface asphalt and wet.

Vehicle one (V 1), a 1998 Mercedes Benz E320 sedan, was driven by a 26 year-old male with one passenger. V1 was stopped at the stop sign ready to cross the arterial. Vehicle two (V 2), a 1997 Ford Ranger pickup driven by a 56 year-old male, was headed southwest on the arterial street in lane 2. V1 started into the intersection as V2 was approaching, and V did not have enough time to make an avoidance action. The front of V2 struck the right side of V1 causing V1 to spin clockwise. V came to rest facing northeast in lane 1 of the arterial road. V2 came to rest in the travel lane facing southwest, Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage, but no occupants were transported to the hospital. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 seemed very confused at the scene of the collision, and the researcher noted the odor of alcohol on his breath. When the driver of V1 described the crash, he seemed to be either intoxicated or severely fatigued. Upon asking where they were coming from, the passenger in V1 said a friend's house, adding that they've been up all night. It was also the first time the driver of V1 had driven this roadway. The driver of V2 stated that he was traveling down the arterial about 10 car lengths behind another car, enough that there wasn't sufficient space for a car to pass between the other vehicle and V2. When V1 pulled in front of V2, the driver of V2 said he hit the brakes right as the two cars collided. The driver of V2 also stated that he never saw headlights, thought he couldn't remember if this was due to V1 having it's lights off or if it was due to the angle of the intersection.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related recognition factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see). Due to the driver being unfamiliar with the area and undecided about turning left or going straight, he did not observe V2 coming down the roadway and proceeded to pull out in front of V2 to turn left. The driver of V1 failed to yield the right of way to V2. Additional factors were that the driver seemed confused and had odor of alcohol on his breath.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.