This crash occurred at an intersection of an undivided two-way 2-lane roadway and a one-way 2-lane roadway. The intersection was controlled by 4-way stop signs. Both roadways were level, dry asphalt and the posted speed was 48 kmph (30 mph). The crash occurred in the early evening while still daylight on a weekday.

Vehicle #1 was a 1986 GMC Jimmy that was traveling west on the two-way roadway. Vehicle #2 was a 1998 Chevrolet Monte Carlo that was traveling south on the one-way roadway in the second lane of travel. As the driver of V2 came to the intersection, he stopped for the sign. The driver stated that he noted a non-contact vehicle approaching from the west, so he waited for it to come to a complete stop. The driver of V2 intended to make a left turn at the intersection. Meanwhile, V1 approached the intersection from the east. The driver of the non-contact vehicle waved V2 on. As the driver of V2 started his left turn, he noted V1 approaching. He thought that V1 was going to stop. However, V1 entered the intersection without stopping and the front of V1 struck the left side of V2. This impact caused V2 to rotate counterclockwise to come to final rest facing north. V1 came to final rest at the east side of the intersection facing west. The drivers of V1 and V2 were not injured. V2 was towed due to damage. V1 was drivable. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle #1 was driven by a 54-year old male who reported being in fair health. He stated he is being treated for high blood pressure, gout, and high cholesterol. He also stated that he wears corrective lenses for both myopic and hyperopic (near and farsightedness) conditions. The driver stated that he was lost. He also stated that he was looking to his right at a boat in a sales lot. He said he did not see the stop sign and he thought he had the right of way. The driver stated that by the time he knew what was going on, he applied his brakes but it was too late to avoid the crash.

Vehicle #2 was driven by a 29-year old male who reported being in good health and not taking any medications. He does not wear corrective lenses. This driver stated he came to the intersection and came to a complete stop. Another vehicle came to the intersection from the west and came to a stop. This driver stated that V1 was back about 75 feet from the stop sign and thought it would stop. He stated the driver of the vehicle that was to his right (the non-contact vehicle) waved him through. As this driver started his left turn, he realized that V1 was not going to stop and he could do nothing to avoid the crash.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was coded other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle; however, several associated factors were coded to this driver. The driver of V1 was distracted by the boat in the sales yard and was looking to his right as he entered the intersection. Therefore, he did not stop at his stop sign (an illegal maneuver). Other associated factors included the fact that the driver was lost and this was the first time he had driven on this roadway.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was this vehicle turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a false assumption of other road users actions. The driver of V2 saw V1 approaching but thought that it would stop for its stop sign. Had the driver of V2 waited to see if V1 would stop at its stop sign (as he did for the non-contact vehicle), it is likely that the crash would not have occurred. No additional associated factors were coded to this driver. He was driving on a suspended license and the license plate was not registered to V2.