This two-vehicle crash occurred mid-week shortly after noon. The location was in the five northbound travel lanes of a divided freeway with a guardrail protecting the inside left shoulder. It was raining, the road was wet, level, concrete; it was daylight and there were no view obstructions. The posted speed limit was 97 kmph, or 60 mph.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1986 Toyota MPV mini-van, was traveling northbound in the HOV lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Pontiac Bonneville SE 4 door, was traveling northbound in the HOV lane ahead of V1. The driver of V2 observed a school bus with it flashers on stopped ahead and begin to slow. The scholol bus had stopped behind a disabled vehicle in front of it. The driver stated he was traveling approximately 56 kmph (35 mph) when his vehicle was struck in the left rear by V1. The driver of V1 was unable to stop in time and struck the rear of V2. V1 was driven to the far right shoulder per the police officers instruction. V1 was then towed due to damage. On impact V2 rotated clockwise across all five lanes and came to rest on the outside shoulder facing east. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, an 18-year-old male, was not injured. There were four 15-year-old female passengers and two male passengers; one was 14 & one was 15 years old. There was no interview with this driver or passengers. The only sources of information for V1 were the police report, interview with V2 driver, scene inspection and inspection of the vehicle. The police report indicated the driver was not the registered owner of the vehicle, so his familiarity with driving the vehicle cannot be ascertained. He did possess a driver license. The police report indicated contributing factors for the driver of V1 to be: exceeding a reasonable safe speed & inattention. The driver of V2 indicated that he observed the yellow school bus ahead in his lane with its flashers on. He braked and decelerated to approximately 56 kmph (35 mph) and was about 64-meters (70-yards) away from the bus when his vehicle was struck by V1. The driver of V2 indicated he was attempting to move to the adjacent right travel lane prior to impact; however, due to the congested traffic he could not make the lane change. Factors for V1 include: following too close and traveling too fast to respond to the unexpected actions of the forward traffic; and, the driver of V1 misjudged the speed and gap distance between his vehicle and V2. Upon examination of V1, all four tires were under-inflated but with no other adverse pre-impact damage or condition factors. The roadway was wet & it was raining at the time of the crash. There were no sight line restrictions between V1 and V2. It could not be determined if the driver of V1 was internally or externally distracted prior to this crash; however, the most prominent factor that was the critical reason for the critical event was assigned to the driver of V1 as a driver decision factor: following too closely to respond to unexpected actions of other road users. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. Per the driver of V2's statement that he was decelerating in the traffic lane hoping to make a lane change, but could not due to the congested traffic.

The driver of vehicle two, a 53-year-old male. He complained of neck & back pain and was transported to a medical facility for treatment. The passenger, a 41-year-old female, was also not injured. The driver and passenger were on their way to a doctor appointment coming from a shopping trip. According to the medical records the driver takes the following medications: Enalapril, Flexeril, aspirin, Lipitor and Hydrochlorothiazide. The driver reported he takes medications for high blood pressure, but has no other reported illnesses or conditions. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event was not assigned to V2.