This crash occurred in the two eastbound lanes of an interstate exit. This roadway curved to the left, was bituminous and level, and had a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55mph). It was mid evening on a weekday, it had recently stopped raining, and traffic was light. The roads had dried from the previous rain.

V1 was a 2004 Dodge Stratus driven by a 34-year-old female. V1 was traveling in the right lane when it crossed the road edge to the right and struck a breakaway light pole. The vehicle rotated around the pole in the air and landed facing backwards. When the vehicle landed, the left side of the vehicle went up an embankment and flipped the vehicle onto its roof. V1 then slid on its roof on the shoulder for approximately 50 meters. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was "driver related factor - too fast for curve/turn."

There were several associated driver-related factors in this crash. The driver of V1 was found to have a BAC of 0.17, as per the police report. The driver had related that she had several glasses of wine two hours prior to this trip. The driver stated that she had stopped just prior to getting onto this roadway at a coffee house and had two double espressos. The driver also related that she was addicted to pain medications due to a herniated disc and an anxiety/panic disorder. The medications were oxycontin, morphine, and klonopin. She reported not being comfortable with the vehicle, stating that it wasn't hers, she did not like how it handled, and that it was not in good condition. Other associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include traveling too fast, aggressive driving, and inadequate evasive action. It was reported on the PAR that a cell phone was in use at the time. A witness on the PAR claimed that V1 was traveling at a high rate of speed and cut him off before departing the roadway.