This two-vehicle crash occurred in the afternoon of a weekday in the middle of two-way urban intersection. The intersection consisted of a one-lane northbound roadway and a one-lane westbound roadway controlled by a properly function traffic signal. Both roadways were bituminous, dry, straight, and level, with posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Dodge Neon with two occupants, was westbound approaching the intersection where it intended to go straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Toyota Rav-4 with one occupant, was northbound approaching the same intersection where it also intended on going straight. V2 failed to stop for its red light and entered the intersection. The front of V1 struck the right side of V2 in the middle of the intersection. V1 came to final rest facing west in the intersection near the point of impact. After the initial impact, V2 rotated approximately 180 degrees clockwise and came to final rest facing south in the northwest corner of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a 19-year old female, was on her way home from taking her elderly neighbor to the grocery store, she often drives her neighbor to and from her errands. She travels on the road daily and was sure she had the green light when an SUV (V2) came speeding across her front left. She could not do anything but slam on her brakes. She admitted to talking to her passenger but stated that she was not distracted by the casual conversation. She was not injured, however her passenger, an 84-year old female, was transported to the hospital with minor injuries.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded other motor vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle include an internal distraction, talking to her passenger, and driver inexperience, she's been a license driver for only two years.

The driver of V2, a 39-year old female, was traveling north through the intersection when her vehicle came in contact with V2. As she was passing through the intersection, she was talking on the cell-phone and wasn't sure the light was green. She admitted to being distracted by the intense telephone conversation she was having with a friend. She was on her way home from work and travels on the roadway daily and is quite familiar with it. She was not injured.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason coded to this vehicle was a driver related, recognition error, an internal distraction. In addition to the internal distraction an illegal maneuver (failure to stop for a TCD) was coded as an associated factor.