The crash occurred in the intersection of a six-lane roadway divided by a grass median with a three-lane cross street divided by a concrete median. The six-lane roadway had four lanes westbound and two lanes eastbound. Pre-crash westbound roadway had a radius of curvature of 562 m. The crossing street extended north and had one northbound lane and two south bound lanes. Lane one southbound lane was marked for right turn only and lane two was marked for left turn only. There were on colors traffic control signals without pedestrian control for both roadways and they were functioning properly. Both roadways were asphalt, straight, level and dry. The crash occurred on a weekend afternoon when traffic was light. The weather was clear and dry and the posted speed limit was 72 kph (45mph).

V1, a 1987 Ford F150 pickup truck with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane two. V2, 2001 Ford Ranger pickup truck with one occupant was traveling southbound in lane two. Pre crash the westbound roadway was two lanes wide and V1 was behind other vehicles. As V1 approached the intersection he noticed the other traffic moving into the right turn only lane one and his lane became lane two. V2 had a green light and entered the intersection to make a left turn to the eastbound lanes. Before V2 could complete the turn, V1's front left ran into the left rear of V2. The impact caused V2 to rotate counter-clockwise and it came to rest in the intersection facing northwest about seven meters southeast of the point of impact. V1 continued straight and stopped next to the median about 30 meters west facing west. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Ford F150, was driven by an 85-year old male who was coded for possible injury but was not transported. The driver stated that he was on his way home from his daughter's home and noticed the other vehicles turning right from the lane to his right so he moved to the left. He said that he did not see V2 and claimed that he thought he had a green light. He did not make any attempt to stop and said he was traveling 32-48kph (20-30mph). He said V2 turned left in front of him and he was unable to stop and ran into it.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was other vehicle encroachment from crossing street turning to opposite direction. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors for V1 were coded for failure to look far enough ahead and an exterior factor of other - the driver was focused on the vehicles turning right beside him. He was very specific of that fact at the scene and in the interview, but said he did not see V2 or attempt any evasive action.

V2, the Ford Ranger, was driven by a 36-year old female who was coded for possible injury but was not transported. The driver stated that she was on her way home from school had been stopped for the red light for over 10 seconds. When the light changed to green she looked left, right, and straight ahead before entering the intersection. She said she did not see V1 until just before it ran into hers and spun her around. She said she had no time for evasive action. She estimated that she was traveling under 16kph (10mph).

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was inadequate surveillance. An associated factor coded for V2 was inadequate surveillance, looked but did not see. The driver claimed that she looked but did not see V1. The driver of V2 was also coded for non-driving activity; she was smoking with only one hand on the steering wheel.