This single vehicle crash occurred mid-afternoon on a Tuesday. The location was a rural State Route with open farmland on both sides of the highway. The roadway was a two lane, two way, undivided bituminous level road with paved shoulders on both sides. The weather was overcast and the road was dry. The posted speed limit was 64 kmph (40 mph). The posted advisory speed for southbound traffic entering the S-curve was 56 kmph (35 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Volkswagen Beetle with two occupants, was traveling southbound entering the S-curve. V1 exited the left curve and was entering the right hand curve that had a radius of 34 meters (112 feet) and a super elevation of 2%. The vehicle crossed the centerline of the roadway where the driver steered right and the vehicle initiated a clockwise rotation in a yaw back across the centerline and toward the right shoulder. V1 departed the roadway and struck the embankment of a ditch with the front of the vehicle. On impact the vehicle rotated clockwise striking the embankment again with the left side rear of the vehicle. The vehicle continued to rotate clockwise causing the vehicle to rollover two quarter turns. The vehicle came to rest on its top in the ditch. The vehicle was towed from the scene and neither occupant was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1 was a 16 year-old male. The passenger, a 12 year-old female received a minor abrasion to her left arm. She was treated at the scene and released. The driver has been a licensed driver for only 3 months. He was familiar with the vehicle, but was not traveling his normal route home from school. He had been driving for approximately 20 minutes prior to the crash. He is in good health and has no medical problems. He was well rested having slept 10 ½ hours the night before. He was in violation of a restriction on his license requiring a licensed driver over the age of 25 to be present in the vehicle while he is driving. The driver admitted to looking down at the tachometer and also was adjusting the navigation system. He was internally distracted, allowed the vehicle to cross the centerline of the roadway. He then over compensated and the vehicle initiated a clockwise rotation.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded "this vehicle traveling-over the lane line on left side of travel lane". The critical reason was coded "internal distraction".