This crash occurred on an undivided two-lane east/west roadway. This was a straight, level, and bituminous roadway with posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). The crash occurred in the late morning and the road was dry and skies were clear. Traffic flow was steady.

V1, a 2004 Ford Escape sport utility vehicle, was traveling east in lane one intending on continuing east. V2, a 1999 Peterbilt tractor-trailer, was traveling west in lane one intending on continuing west. As both vehicles were heading in their respective directions, V1 drifted over the left lane line heading straight into V2. V2 attempted to avoid the crash by steering left, braking, and honking the horn. V1 attempted to avoid the collision by steering left. Both vehicles were unsuccessful in their avoidance maneuvers and the front of the vehicles impacted. V1 then impacted the curb and rolled over two quarter turns to the left. V1 came to final rest on its top off of the roadway. V2 came to final rest approximately 30 meters southwest of point of impact off the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Ford Escape, was driven by a 17-year-old female who reported incapacitating injuries and was transported by medical helicopter to a trauma center. The driver was unable to be contacted for an interview, but much information was obtained from the investigating police officer, the prosecutor, and the driver's MySpace account. The driver was heading home in lane one and went to adjust the climate controls. She looked up when she heard V2's horn, and attempted to avoid the crash by steering left, but was unsuccessful and struck the front of V2. The force of this impact and subsequent impact with the curb caused V1 to overturn onto its top off the roadway. A blood test was pending as to whether or not the driver was under the influence drugs. Drug paraphernalia was found in the purse of the driver of V1.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded as "This vehicle traveling over the lane line on left side of travel lane." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded as "Internal distraction - adjusting climate controls." Without an interview from the driver and the results of her blood test, the only associated factor that could be coded to this driver was driver inexperience, since at the time of the crash the driver had only been licensed for a month.

V2, the Peterbilt tractor-trailer, was driven by a 74-year-old male who reported moderate injuries, as well as his passenger, an 80-year-old female. Both were transported to the medical facility for their injuries. The driver stated that he was leaving the nearby sand plant and was on his way home. As he was heading west down the roadway he noticed V1 drifting into his travel lane. He attempted to get the driver's attention by honking the honk and then tried to avoid the collision by steering left and braking. However, he was unsuccessful and struck the front of V1. After the impact, V2 came to final rest approximately 30 meters southwest of point of impact off the roadway.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded as "Other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this driver. No associated factors were coded to this driver.