The single vehicle, weekday, early evening crash occurred off the right side of a level, straight, 2-lane, 2-way, rural, gravel/slag roadway. At the time of the crash it was dark/unlighted, the weather was clear and the roadway was icy and rutted. The non-posted speed limit for the roadway was 89 kmh (55mph).

V1, a 2000 Honda CRV occupied by a 54 year-old male driver, a 54 year-old female passenger and a 21 year-old female passenger, were eastbound on the right side and middle of the roadway described above. V1 went to the left then back to the right, went into a clockwise yaw and exited the roadway to the right. V1 entered a shallow, wide marshy ditch while in the clockwise yaw and rolled over, left side leading, 1 quarter turn. V1 rotated counterclockwise and landed on its left side in the ditch coming to rest facing east. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver stated that he was eastbound and had just left home on his way to church but was not late. He said that he was going about 30-35mph going from the right side of the road to the middle trying to avoid/brake for the ice-filled ruts in the road (which he has driven daily for 21 years). He said his wheels got caught in ruts that pulled the car to the left so he steered right, lost control and went into a clockwise yaw.

The Critical pre-crash event for v1 was “This vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side”. The Critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was the driver's decision error of driving too fast for conditions. Some contributing factors on the part of v1 include the icy, rutted condition of the roadway and the fact that all 4 tires were over-inflated. Others include the driver's affliction with sleep apnea that limits his sleep to 6.5 hours per night and causes him to wake up fatigued every day. In addition, on the day of the crash, the driver had exercised and performed strenuous chores around the house for 4 hours. Finally, the driver chose an inappropriate evasive action and then overcorrected.