This two-vehicle crash occurred on a weekend during afternoon hours at an intersection with traffic signals. The speed limit for the roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). The road is a 3-lane divided (no positive barrier) asphalt roadway from north to south. Left turn lanes are present at the intersection. The road surface was wet due to steady rain at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Honda Civic, was traveling south in lane four of the southbound lanes. He was attempting a left turn at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Chevrolet S-10 pick up, was traveling north in the second lane attempting to pass through the intersection. At the intersection, the front of V2 impacted with the right side of V1. Both vehicles came to rest adjacent to the impact location. V2 was towed from the scene. V1 was driven from the scene. No injuries were reported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 59-year old male drove V1. He was heading from work to his residence. He said he was not in a hurry. He is in good health, was well rested and does not take medication. He drives this roadway on a daily basis and was familiar with the area as well as his vehicle. He stated he waited at the intersection until he had a protective green arrow. He stated that he was stopped for more than ten seconds before proceeding with the left turn.

The critical pre crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at an intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

A 21-year old male drove V 2. He was heading from a local department store to his residence. He said he was not in a hurry. He is in good health, was well rested and does not take medication. He stated he did not see V1 until it appeared in front of him.

The critical pre crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction-over left lane line. No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle. This driver failed to detect V1 approaching from the opposite direction, turning left in front of him.