This single vehicle crash occurred on a two way, two-lane interstate roadway. There are two westbound and two eastbound lanes that are divided by a depressed median. There are large oleander bushes in the center of the median. The area where the crash occurred is orientated to the north/south. The speed limit on the roadway is posted 86 kph (55 mph). The weather at the time of the crash was clear and there were no defects on the roadways. Crash occurred mid-afternoon during daylight hours. There are rumble strips on both shoulders of the roadways.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Toyota Corolla 4 door with one occupant, was traveling northbound in the right lane. The vehicle departed the lane on the right side. The driver overcompensated to the left. The vehicle then began to rotate counterclockwise and traveled across the roadway in a northwesterly direction and departed the roadway. The vehicle traveled down a slope into the median and struck a large oleander bush on the right side. The vehicle climbed over the bush and began to rotate clockwise and came to rest on it's left side on the opposite side of the bushes facing in a northeasterly direction. The vehicle was towed due to damage. The driver was transported from the scene by EMS. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1, a seventeen (17) year old male, was not interviewed. According to the police report, the driver was looking down at his cell phone and then looked up and nearly struck a parked vehicle on the right shoulder. He over corrected and slid across the roadway and rolled the vehicle over. According to the medial report, the driver does not have any medical problems and is involved in athletics at school.

A witness at the scene said that he was parked on the right shoulder sitting in the driver's seat. The vehicle passed him and the driver was looking over his right shoulder. The vehicle then slid across the roadway and rolled in the median. The witness said that V1 almost hit his vehicle when it passed him.

The critical pre-crash event was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction. The driver was distracted by trying to retrieve his cell phone. An associated factor could be that the driver overcompensated to the left and was distracted by looking at the vehicle that he nearly struck that was parked on the right shoulder.