The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a high occupancy, high volume, and high-speed interstate highway. There were five lanes running northbound with both right and left side paved emergency shoulders. There were concrete wall barriers separating the north/southbound traffic. The road widths were a standard 3.7 meters and the emergency-paved shoulders were 3.5 meters. The road was curved to the right and level. The conditions were wet and cloudy on a weekday afternoon. The posted speed was a 105 KPH (65 MPH).

V1 was a 2000 Chevy Astro Van that was stopped in the left paved shoulder when the driver decided to pull back out into traffic. V1 pulled into lane five of the northbound traffic lanes when V2, a 2002 Honda Civic was driving along straight in that lane. V1 was hit on the right side and V2 sustained left side damage and a left rear bumper damage. V2 was towed due to damage. Neither driver was injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

V1 was driven by a 62-year-old male who had pulled off to the left side paved shoulder and then decided to pull back into traffic. The driver stated that he tried to pull back into traffic when he was hit by V2 who was going the speed limit in lane five, also the HOV lane. Since the roads were wet from the previous rain the driver of V2 was unable to stop in time without hitting the right side of the van. V1 was cited for failure to use due care.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was other motor vehicle in lane traveling with a higher rate of speed. The critical reason was a driver error, misjudgment of others gap or speed. An associative factor was wet roads. Another associative factor was the driver's speed, which was too slow to pull out onto the high-speed roadway.

V2 was driven by a 49-year-old woman who was on her way home from visiting a friend. The driver stated she was traveling northbound in lane five when the white van pulled out in front of her from a dead stop. The driver stated she slammed her brakes and steered to the right but was unable to avoid a crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was other vehicle in lane traveling with a slower rate of speed. The critical reason was not coded to this driver. An associative factor was the wet roads.