This single-vehicle crash occurred in a rural area on a 2-lane asphalt roadway with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The southbound lane curves left and is downhill. The crash occurred during daylight in the mid-morning. There were no adverse weather or road conditions present.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Ford Ranger pickup truck, was southbound when it gradually departed the right road edge after just about successfully negotiated the left curve. The vehicle traveled along the dirt shoulder for 50 meters (164 feet) before it steered left. V1 rotated counter-clockwise as it crossed both travel lanes, departed the left side of the roadway and impacted the dirt embankment on the northbound side. V1 then rolled over and came to rest on its roof on the northbound dirt shoulder. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

According to the police report, the investigating officer indicates the physical evidence showed no attempts to apply the brakes after the road departure. It was the officers opinion that the driver of V1 "somehow went off the road and was unable to maintain control of his vehicle". According to the medical records, when asked about what caused to collision the driver stated that he was unsure of how the crash happened, and further speculated that he may have passed out. The driver's son told medical staff that his father is taking multiple medications, has a history of diabetes, heart ailments and memory problems. The son cited a previous collision in which the driver had passed out & hit a parked car. The daughter also confirmed what the son said, and agreed with her father that he had passed out before this collision occurred. The medical record also indicated the driver has a hearing deficit & did not have his hearing aid at the time of the medical examination. It is unknown if the driver was wearing his hearing aid at the time of the collision. According to the medical records the driver was taking the following medications for high blood pressure prior to the crash: lisinopril, amlodipine, atenolol and Lasix. It is unknown if he was taking medication for diabetes (or other medical conditions prior to the collision, although a diabetes medication was prescribed for him upon release from the facility.

The driver had just about successfully negotiated the curve when he (possibly) passed out and departed the roadway. He made a decision to steer hard left after he had departed the roadway to the right initiating the control loss. The overcompensation and selection of inappropriate evasive action were considered contributing factors to the collision but occurred after the driver had apparently awakened after passing out and departing the roadway.

The driver indicated to medical personnel and family that he passed out before the collision; however, the reason for why he passed out could not be determined. It is unknown if it was due to fatigue or a medical condition. The driver also has a past history of this happening to him while driving.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: unknown critical non-performance.