The crash occurred on a primary arterial road that ran north/south at a point where it was intersected from the east by a secondary arterial at a T type intersection. The north leg of the primary arterial had three southbound lanes (with the far left being a left turn only lane) that were separated from two northbound through lanes by a curb height concrete median. The south leg of the primary arterial had three northbound lanes (with the far right being a right turn only lane) that were separated from the two southbound through lanes by a similar concrete median to the above mentioned. Both east and west shoulders were paved. The northbound approach to the intersection was straight and level. The southbound approach was straight but had a negative 2% grade. The speed limit for the primary arterial was 72kph (45mph). Conditions at the time of the crash were dark, and only partially lit by some convenience store lights on the southeast corner. The road was dry with no adverse weather conditions. The crash occurred in the late evening hours on a weeknight.

V1 was a 1993 Land Rover, Range Rover that was in the left turn only southbound lane. When V1 attempted its left turn (east onto the secondary arterial) it was struck on the right side by the front of V2, a 1995 Chrysler Concorde that was traveling north in the far left lane of the primary arterial. V2 had swerved to its right to try and avoid in combination with braking input. V1 then rolled ¼ turn to its left while rotating clockwise and came to rest in the right westbound lane of the secondary arterial facing west about 15 meters northeast of impact. The driver of V1 was ejected. V2 rotated about 100 degrees clockwise and came to rest facing southeast about 6 meters northeast of impact. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a twenty-one year old unrestrained male who was transported from the scene with incapacitating injuries. He was on his way home from school (community college) at the time of the crash. The driver's father indicated in the interview that the driver is a fulltime student with extracurricular athletics on his schedule in addition to working part time.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, turning left at an intersection". The Critical Reason was coded as a "misjudgment of others gap and speed". This was attributed based mainly on V2's driver statements about V1's actions, as the driver of V1 was unavailable for interview. The driver was coded as fatigued due to a very taxing schedule. No other contributing factors were coded to V1.

V2 was driven by a twenty-year-old unrestrained female whose airbags did deploy. She was transported to a medical center for treatment from the crash scene due to incapacitating injuries. Her right front passenger was uninjured. They were on their way to go "hang out" at a friends' house.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment over the left lane line". The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. This driver falsely assumed that the other driver would yield the right of way. No other contributing factors were coded to this vehicle.