The crash occurred in the westbound lanes of a three-lane highway divided by a grass median. There were three eastbound lanes and three westbound lanes. This was a level, concrete highway with a posted speed of 112 kmph (70 mph), that curved left with a radius of 2%. It was early morning and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic was flowing.

V1, a 2003 Pontiac Bonneville four door with one occupant was traveling westbound in lane three. V2, an International Tractor Tanker with one occupant was traveling westbound in lane two. V1 started to veer into the V2's lane of travel. The driver of V1 said he could not remember what had happened. The driver of V2 stated that he did not see V1 veering into his lane and so did not attempt any avoidance actions. The right of V1 contacted the left of V2 at the tractors rear wheels. V1 then departed the roadway on the left side and rolled right four quarter turns. V1 entered the eastbound roadway before coming to final rest on its wheels. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Pontiac Bonneville was driven by a 22-year old male. He reported injuries and was transported to a local trauma facility. The driver of V1 was driving under the influence of alcohol and could not remember what had happened. He stated that he had left his mother's house and was on his way home. He thought that he had been traveling between 98-112 kmph (61-70 mph) prior to contacting V2. He could not remember if he attempted any avoidance actions.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V1 was: This vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the right side of travel. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a driver related error: : Other critical non-performance error (alcohol), because his blood alcohol level was .25. Associated factors coded to this driver were that he had only driven this vehicle a few times. He was also fatigued; he had not slept in 19 hours. He thought that he may have been changing the radio station and had an internal distraction. Also he had poor directional control.

V2, the International Tractor Tanker was driven by a 48-year old male. He reported no injuries and refused treatment. He advised that he was coming from the office and was on his way to a stop-off. He stated that he had been traveling between 82-97 kmph (51-60 mph) prior to being contacted.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V2 was: Other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane (same direction) - over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle.