This three-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The east/west roadway is level, straight, undivided and consists of two through lanes and a left turn lane in both directions. The speed limit for this roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 GMC Sierra C1500 pickup, was westbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Chevrolet Tahoe, was eastbound in lane one. Vehicle three (V3), a 2004 Harley Davidson 1450cc motorcycle, was westbound in lane three behind V1. V1 turned left in the intersection and the front struck the front of V2. V1 rotated counterclockwise and the left side was struck by the front of V3. All vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a nineteen-year-old male, was focused on V3, which was a police vehicle with emergency lights on. The police officer was attempting to stop V1 for a traffic violation. This driver stated that he did not see V2 prior to the impact and that he was upset because he was being stopped by the police. No further information is available for this driver.

The driver of V2, a twenty-four-year-old female, was on her way home from a class. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she saw V2 and V3 but did not realize that V1 was turning.

The driver of V3, a thirty-five-year-old male, was not interviewed. No further information is available for this driver.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: external distraction.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was not coded to this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded: other; not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was not coded to this vehicle.