This two-vehicle crash occurred along a four-lane east/west undivided roadway. There were two eastbound lanes and two westbound lanes. This roadway was bituminous, but the asphalt had recently been removed for repaving. This roadway was rough and noisy to drive on; it also had a lowered coefficient of friction. The westbound approach curved right with a 5 percent super-elevation and a 3.3 percent downhill slope. The eastbound approach was straight with a 3.3 percent uphill slope. The posted speed limit for both directions was 56 kmph (35 mph). Setting was early evening hours on a weekend while still daylight. Conditions were clear and dry with light traffic flow.

Vehicle one was a 1996 Toyota Camry four-door with four occupants traveling westbound in lane one. Vehicle two was a 2000 Ford F-550 straight truck traveling eastbound in lane two. While traveling eastbound, V2 ran out of gas. V2 turned left into a driveway on the north side of the road. V2 ran out of gas while pulling into the driveway and parked with the rear section of the vehicle intruding into westbound lane one. The driver exited the vehicle and directed traffic around his truck while a neighbor went for gas. The driver did not have roadway flares or a safety vest on while directing traffic. V1 was traveling in lane one toward the parked V2. A non-contact vehicle in front of V1 suddenly switched lanes to the left to avoid colliding with V2. V1 continued to travel forward and struck the right rear of V2 with its right front plane. The impact caused V1 to underride the rear of V2. V1 traveled 4 meters (13 feet) after impact and came to final rest under the rear of V2 in its original travel lane, facing west. The impact caused V2 to be pushed laterally 1.8 meters to the left and come to final rest facing north in the private driveway. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 was an 18 year-old female who was transported from the scene with evident injuries. According to her mother who was interviewed on-scene, she was on her way home from picking up her friends at work. She worked full-time as a waitress at a local restaurant but had the day off to go to church with her family. The mother reported that the driver takes no medications and doesn't suffer from any pre-existing conditions. The driver stated that she and her friends were driving along at 64 kmph (40 mph) in lane one. They were all talking and laughing with each other. She said that there was a car driving in front of them at the same speed. The vehicle in front of them suddenly changed lanes to the left and next thing she knew, a large truck (V2) backed out of a driveway and collided with the right side of her car, causing her car to go under the truck. She was unable to recall whether she applied the brakes or made any other avoidance maneuvers. She didn't think she did because she never saw V2 prior to impact. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front and right plane damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "Other vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "Inadequate surveillance, failed to look far enough ahead." This driver had only three years of driving experience; therefore "inexperience" was coded as an associated factor. She had three passengers in her vehicle, whom she was talking with prior to the crash occurring, possibly leading to the driver being distracted. She failed to look far enough ahead and recognize that a vehicle was broken down in her lane. The slick road surface of the roadway due to the removal of the asphalt and V2 being stopped in her lane were both coded as associated highway factors. A sightline restriction caused by the non-contact vehicle traveling in front of V1 until the last moment was also coded as an associated factor.

The driver of V2 was a 40 year-old male who was not present in his vehicle at the time of the crash. He had spent the day at a friend's house and was on his way to find a gas station because his truck was about out of gas, and then go home. As he was driving along, his truck unexpectedly ran out of gas. He made a left turn into a driveway as his vehicle was stalling, but the rear of the truck was still sticking out into westbound lane one. A man that lived in the house volunteered to go get several gallons of diesel fuel while he stayed and guided traffic around his truck. For 25 minutes, he driver stood about 4 meters (13 feet) from his truck and waved at traffic in lane one to move over into lane two. He did not have a safety vest or other warning device though. He said that as V1 came around the curve, he waved at them, but it appeared the driver never saw him. V1 came "barreling through" at an estimated 64 kmph (40 mph) and struck the right rear of his truck with the front right of the car. The force caused his truck with 10,000lbs of cargo to move laterally several feet. His vehicle was drivable and driven away from the scene.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. His vehicle running out of gas and stalling in the roadway was the only associated factor. Because this driver was not present in the vehicle, nothing else was coded for him.