This crash occurred in the afternoon at midweek. It occurred at an intersection with traffic signals. The intersection was dry, level, asphalt. The crash occurred on the North / South lanes. There were 4-lanes of travel. There were two in each direction. The speed was posted at 72 Kmph (45 Mph). The weather was clear and sunny.

As V1 a 2003 Chrysler Caravan was traveling North lane #2 it approached the intersection to make a left turn. The driver stopped at the intersection for about 1 to2 seconds then proceeded to turn into the path of V2 a 2007 GMC Acadia. Vehicle #2 braked and steered to the right to avoid V1 contacting V1 at the right front side of the vehicle. V1 then rotated counter clockwise a ¼ turn to final rest to face South west blocking the southbound lanes of travel and lane 1 of the eastbound traffic. V2 rotated counter clockwise 1/8 turn to block the same lanes. The driver of V1 received minor injuries and was transported to the local trauma unit. The driver of V2 was transported to a local trauma unit also due to injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 29 year-old female who stated she is in good health and not wearing corrective lenses at this time was driving V1. She stated she had been to the store to pick up things for camping with the family and was going to pick up her daughter from school. As she traveled north on the road toward the intersection the traffic light turned green. She stated she put on her left turn signal and decelerated to a stop. She thought she had the clearance to make her turn then being contacted by V2 at the right front side of her Van. She stated that on scene she did not think she was injured but wanted her son who was belted in a child restraint seat to be seen at the ER unit. She stated the officers let her and her mother take him by POV. The driver stated she was checked out at the same time.

A 41 year-old female who stated she is in good health only taking medications for allergies and thyroid problem at this time. She stated that she does not wear corrective lenses. She stated that she and her husband are teachers just down the roadway. She stated he had gone jogging and wanted the driver to look for him along the roadway to pick him up as she left work for home. She traveled south on the roadway toward the intersection the light had turned green. She stated she proceeded towards the intersection and at the last second V1 proceeded to turn left in front of her. She stated she received minor injuries and was taken to a local trauma unit.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded driver related factors decision errors inadequate surveillance. Associated factors to this driver were that she does not drive this roadway that often and was running late to pick up her child from school. And her son in the seat behind her may have distracted her.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The associated facts to this driver was that she was looking for her husband who was out jogging along the roadway and she was to have picked him up on her way home.

The witness stated she was traveling northbound just behind the maroon van. She stated that the van stopped in lane two to make a left turn. She stated the van started her left turn then stopped very fast then accelerated. She stated if the driver would of stayed stopped the southbound traffic she could have avoided her and continued on. She stated the van and SUV hit and rotated to face southwest for final rest. She stated she put her truck in park and ran to check on drivers. She stated the driver of the SUV stated she needed to have her husband picked-up, he was jogging along side of the roadway the crash occurred on. She stated she gave the driver one of her business card and stated she would be right back to be a witness.