This single-vehicle crash occurred at a three-legged "T" intersection. The north/south roadway is undivided and consists of one lane in each direction. The southbound lane has a -5% downhill grade, curves to the right and is controlled by a stop sign. There is a junction warning sign 0.8 kilometers (one-half mile) prior to the intersection and a stop sign warning sign 20 meters (66 feet) prior to the intersection. The speed limit on this roadway is 80 kmph (50 mph). It was dark at the time of the crash with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Toyota Camry, was southbound in lane one. V1 traveled over the center lane line and across the east/west roadway. V1 traveled across the intersection and off the south shoulder of the intersecting roadway, an end departure, and the front struck a guardrail. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1, a thirty-five-year-old male, was on his way home from a day of fishing. He was healthy, stated that he was well rested and comfortable with his vehicle. He rarely travels this route. This driver stated that he did not realize that an intersection was near until he saw that he was heading toward the guardrail. He applied the brakes (locking them) but was unable to avoid the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, end departure. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: inattention (i.e., daydreaming). The driver rarely drives this route and had been driving for 40 minutes when the crash occurred. There was no indication that he fell asleep or was fatigued. The driver said he had been looking straight ahead prior to the crash and did not remember seeing anything except the guard rail just prior to impact. The driver takes no medications, was not ill, and there was no alcohol present. The driver was also traveling too fast, not realizing caution was required. He failed to recognize the warning sign or the traffic control device.