This daytime three-vehicle collision occurred in an interchange area and was related to an entrance ramp to an interstate highway. In the area of the crash the highway has four lanes with the fourth lane being an HOV lane. The entrance ramp is comprised of one lane going one-way with a Warning sign posted near the end of the on-ramp, a merging traffic warning sign. The speed limit for the interstate roadway is 97 kmph (60 mph). The on-ramp advisory speed limit is unknown. At the time of the crash the roadway was wet and the sky was cloudy.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Ford Ranger pickup truck driven by a twenty three (23) year old male with one passenger, was entering the southbound highway on the right-hand side of the roadway from an on-ramp. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 GMC 1500 extended cab pickup driven by a twenty six (26) year old male with one passenger, was headed southbound in lane one. Vehicle three (V3), a 2007 Dodge Caravan driven by a male of unknown age was headed southbound in lane 3. The front left of V1 impacted the right of V2 sending it into a clockwise rotation. V1 continued across lane two and the left plane of V1 impacted the right plane of V3 sending it into a counter-clockwise rotation. V1 rotates clockwise and came to final rest facing north in lane two. V2 went into a clockwise rotation and impacted the curb with the left rear tire, causing it to continue its clockwise rotation. V2 continues to rotate until coming into contact with the curbing on its right plane. V2 continues to depart the roadway down a slight hill coming into contact with a signpost with its' right plane and breaking the sign post. V2 continues to slide downhill approximately 70 feet before coming to rest facing south. V3's rotation takes its front plane into the jersey barrier dividing the roadway from oncoming northbound traffic. V3 continues to rotate counter-clockwise before coming to final rest facing north. All vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage. No drivers were transported for injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical event for this vehicle is coded as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed. The driver attempted to make a lane change to his left while merging.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from adjacent lane (same direction) - over right lane line. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle. Associative factors coded to this vehicle were: conversing with passenger;and, inadequate surveillance failed to look to side.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle.