Case Summary 2007-43-101

This two-vehicle crash occurred in the northbound lane of a suburban two-way, two-lane, undivided road. The main road runs north/south with an intersecting roadway controlled by a stop sign coming in from the west. There are numerous private gravel driveways and residence's located on the east side of this roadway. Northbound approach is straight with an uphill 4.4% grade. The posted speed limit is 56 kph (35 mph) with no advisory limit present. Setting was evening hours on a weekend. Conditions were dusk and clear with dry road conditions. Traffic flow was light during the crash events. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

V1 is a 1998 Buick LeSabre, full-size, four-door with one occupant traveling northbound in lane one. V2 is a 1997 Oldsmobile Aurora, full-size, two-door with one occupant traveling northbound in lane one, directly in front of V1. V2 stopped in its travel lane with its left turn signal activated with the intention of turning left when southbound traffic cleared. V1 failed to notice V2 stopped in the travel lane ahead and contacted the rear of V2 with its front-end (event 1). V1 came to final rest around the point of impact. V2 traveled 18.0 meters (59 feet) north after impact and came to final rest on the right grass shoulder.

*The EDR for V1 recorded a Deployment Event with a maximum-recorded velocity change of 19 kph (12 mph). It also reported that the brakes were not activated.

The driver of V1 is a 78 year-old male who suffered minor abrasions on his arms from airbag deployment. He reported being in lane one traveling at 56 kph (35 mph). He was on his way back home from a leisurely trip to the gas station to fill his wife's car up with gas for the week. He drives this roadway daily and reports due to the slight uphill grade, V2 who was stopped in his travel lane waiting to turn left probably didn't have his brakes applied, contributing to him not being able to see him. He reported looking straight ahead and denied any internal or external distractions. He might have been daydreaming a little bit though. When he realized a vehicle was stopped in front of him, he applied the brakes and braced the steering wheel for impact. He says if he were in his work truck, he would have been able to stop prior to impact, but the brakes on his wife's car are not as responsive and a bit heavy. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 is “Other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped.” The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was inattention (daydreaming)-a driver error.” This driver admitted to daydreaming a little bit while driving that evening. He told the police officer he was looking off to the right, but denied looking right in my interview with him, offering to me that he was looking straight ahead the whole time. He denied being upset about anything, but I was told by a family member on-scene that he recently lost a son to cancer. This driver suffers from high blood pressure and takes daily prescription medication to treat it. He denied using any other medications to me, but medical records indicate that he takes several other medications including a painkiller that can cause fatigue and dizziness. Inattentive, thought focus unknown as well as failure to look far enough ahead were both coded as recognition factors.

The driver of V2 is a 27 year-old male who was not injured in the crash. He is unemployed, but volunteers part-time at a senior center in his community, approximately 15 hours per week. On this day, he was in town visiting his mother, which he does several times monthly. He left his mothers house, went through the McDonald's drive through and was on his way back to his mother's house to eat. He denied eating or drinking while he was driving. As he approached the tee-intersection, he intended to turn left. He was stopped with his headlights and left turn signal activated in lane one, waiting for a break in on-coming traffic. He reported being stopped for several seconds, and never proceeded before he was hit. He said he kept checking his rear-view mirror as he waited, just to make sure nobody was going to hit him from behind. He never did see V1 coming until he was unexpectedly struck. The impact caused his car to be pushed forward and to the right. He couldn't remember whether his brakes were activated or not while he waited to make his left turn. His vehicle suffered minor damage and was driven from the scene.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 is “Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling the same direction with a higher steady speed.” The Critical Reason was “Not coded to this vehicle.” He reported listening to his radio while driving, a non-driving activity. He only drives this roadway on a monthly basis, an experience factor. No other associated factors for this driver.