This two-vehicle crash occurred in the afternoon of a weekday in lane 2 of a 2-lane divided roadway. The main thoroughfare is an east/west divided roadway (grass median) with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph) and there is an intersecting city street that runs north and south at the location of this crash. The conditions were daylight, clear, dry and the traffic level was low.

V1, a 1996 Dodge Intrepid with one occupant, was stopped at the intersection facing north intending to turn left. V2, a 1998 Ford Escort LX with two occupants, was eastbound in lane two intending to go straight. As V2 approached the intersection, V1 entered the roadway and collided with V2. Both vehicles were towed from the scene but only V2's driver was transported from the scene for injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 16-year-old female and junior in high school that was returning to campus from her lunch break when she was involved in this crash. She states that she stopped at the intersection for an unknown time, looked left and saw V2 coming in her direction but figured it was far enough away that she could cross through the intersection without incident. Once she decided to execute a left-turn, she looked straight ahead and began to move forward. As soon as she entered the intersection she was struck in the left front bumper corner by V2. She was not injured in the crash but her car was towed for disabling damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded “this vehicle turning left at intersection”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event for V1 was coded “misjudgment of gap or other's speed” because she admitted that the underestimated the length of gap and/or speed of V2.

The driver of V2 is a 26-year-old female that could not be reached for an interview. The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was “other vehicle encroachment from crossing street tuning into opposite direction”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event for V2 was not coded to this vehicle.