This three-vehicle crash occurred in a four-leg, traffic signal-controlled intersection. On the north side of the intersection, the roadway was divided and the southbound traffic lanes consisted of a left turn lane and two through lanes. On the west side of the intersection, the roadway was undivided and consisted of one lane in the eastbound direction. On the east side of the intersection, the roadway was divided and consisted of one right turn lane and one through or left turn lane for westbound traffic. The roadway was straight on the north and west side of the intersection and curved left on the east side. The intersection had an uphill grade for southbound traffic, level for east and westbound traffic. All travel lanes were bituminous. The crash occurred during daylight hours during the evening rush hour with snow covered travel lanes

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Chevrolet Impala with only the driver present, was southbound in lane two. Vehicle three (V3), a 2007 Toyota Corolla with two occupants, was stopped westbound at the intersection in lane two preparing to turn left. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Volkswagen GTI with only the driver present, was stopped eastbound at the intersection in lane one preparing to turn left. V1 entered the intersection as V2 and V3 were making their left turns. V1's front impacted with the left side of V2 and then the two vehicle's side-slapped with V2's left impacting with V1's right. V1 then continued on to impact V3's right side with its front end. After impact, V2 rotated clockwise before coming to rest on all four tires facing south. V3 also rotated clockwise after impact and came to rest on all four tires facing northeast. V1 fled the scene of the crash after impact. Both vehicle two and three were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1 and 0 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 was a twenty-nine-year-old male. Little is know about this driver due to him fleeing the scene of the crash. There was limited contact information on the police report that hampered the ability to reach and locate the driver and vehicle. He was listed as the owner of the vehicle on the police report.

The driver of V3 a forty-four-year-old female was on her way to a client's house from work when the crash occurred. She was rested, drives this route weekly, and felt comfortable driving this vehicle even though this was the first time driving this vehicle as it was a rental. She stated being in good health despite her high blood pressure. She does take daily medication that includes calcium, estrogen, vitamin, and a high blood pressure pill.

The driver of V2, a thirty-two-year-old female was coming from work and on her way to get her nails done when the crash occurred. She was rested, drives this route daily and is very comfortable with this vehicle. She stated being in good health and takes Ortho Tri-Cyclen daily.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor; type of driver error unknown.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.