NMVCCS

2007-41-067 Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

The crash occurred in an intersection, controlled by a traffic light. The north/south roadway was a two-way, eight-lane street divided by a curbed median. The roadway leading eastbound into the intersection was a two-way, three-lane undivided street. The posted speed for north/south traffic was 72 kmph (45 mph). These were slightly curved, level, asphalt roads. Conditions were dry and clear on a weekday afternoon. Skies were clear and the roadway was dry. Traffic flow was normal.

V1 was a 2004 Freightliner Tractor trailer that was driven by a 37-year-old male who was in lane one. The driver was a delivery driver and was on his way to make his normal stops. He was in lane one and was approaching a traffic light when the light quickly changed from green to yellow and he was unable to stop in time due to his big truck. The driver then continued through the intersection and was hit on his right side tires by V2, a 1998 Cadillac Eldorado. V2 was driven by a 74-year-old male who was traveling eastbound in lane two attempting to cross through the intersection on his way to the local grocery store. The driver of V1 was cited for the crash. No one was injured and V2 was towed due to damages and leaking fluids.

V1 stated in his interview that the light changed too quickly. After the crash he sat by the light to watch how quickly the light changed from green to red. The driver was unable to stop his truck in time b/c of the weight of his cargo that he was delivering. The driver thought his truck would be seen and he wouldn't get hit. The driver was cited for failure to stop at a traffic device.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was this vehicle traveling, passing through an intersection. The critical reason was an illegal maneuver as he was unable to stop in time for the red light. There were no associative factors related to this roadway. The driver was trying to explain to the officer on scene that the light changed over too quickly and with the weight and size of his truck he was not able to stop in time. He also argued that the driver of V2 should have seen his big truck in the intersection and should not have hit him. There were no assocative factors related to this driver.

V2 stated that he was driving along eastbound in lane three. He had a green light and was attempting to cross through the intersection when he hit the right side of V1 b/c the driver of V1 ran the red light. He driver of V2 denied any wrongdoing or contributing to the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was another vehicle encroachment from opposite street over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associative factors related to this driver.