NMVCCS

2007-41-149 Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

The crash occurred in lane one of the westbound traffic of a four-way intersection. There were four lanes running westbound, with lane four being a left turn only lane. The eastbound lanes had four lanes with lane three being a left turn only lane. The north/south roadway had two lanes not divided with lane one running south and lane two running north. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekday afternoon. The roadway was straight and level. The posted speed was 56 KPH.

V1 was a 1998 Subaru Forester SUV that was traveling across the intersection traveling northbound. The driver cut across the intersection and hit the front of V2, a 1987 Chevy Cavalier that was traveling westbound in lane one. V1 was attempting to go across the intersection and cut in front of V2. V1 suffered minor right side damage and V2 had front-end damage and the left front tire was unable to move. The passenger of V2 was transported to the hospital with chest pains.

The driver of V1 was a 31-year-old male who was not from the area and was attempting to go to the store. He stated that he was focused on his navigation system to try to figure out where he was going. The driver stated that he didn't see V2 until it was too late. V1 was charged with failure to yield right of way and was ticketed for causing the crash.

The critical pre-crash for V1 was this vehicle passing, crossing the intersection. The critical reason was inadequate surveillance a driver error. An associative factor was the fact that the driver was not from the area and was not familiar with the road. Another factor was that his attention was focused on his navigation system. His vehicle was not towed and he was not injured.

V2 was driven by a 67-year-old woman who was driving her mother home from a doctor's appointment. The driver stated that she was traveling westbound in lane one when V2 just cut out into her lane. She stated that she hit her brakes and tried to stop in time to avoid the crash but was unable to avoid hitting V1. V2 was towed due to damages and he passenger was injured.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was another vehicle encroachment from the opposite street, crossing path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associative factors related to this driver. She was not thought to have contributed to the crash.