The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a high occupancy, high volume, and high-speed interstate highway. There were five lanes running northbound with both right and left side paved emergency shoulders. There were concrete wall barriers separating the southbound traffic. The road widths were a standard 3.7 meters and the emergency-paved shoulders were 3.5 meters. The road was straight and level. The conditions were dry and clear on a weeknight evening. The posted speed was a 105 KPH (65 MPH).

V1 was a 2007 Chevy Express van that was traveling southbound in lane five traveling home from work. The driver is a 31-year-old male who was experiencing road rage when a phantom vehicle cut him off and was weaving from lane to lane cursing and screaming obscenities at each other. The phantom driver then decided to cut into V1's lane and slam his brakes. The driver of V1 didn't want to hit the back of the phantom vehicle so he hit his brakes and steered to the left when he then departed the roadway and hit the left side concrete barrier wall. The phantom Vehicle then fled the scene. The driver of V1 had a bad injury to his left arm and was transported to a local hospital with injuries. V1 was towed due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1 stated that he had been weaving through lanes of traffic racing and experiencing road rage with a phantom vehicle. The driver was getting very angry at the phantom vehicle and then the phantom driver cut into his lane and slammed on his brakes. The driver of V1 didn't want to hit the back of the phantom vehicle and steered to the left and hit his brakes. This movement caused V1 to depart the roadway and hit the left side concrete median wall. The driver was not cited for the crash and there was no information regarding the phantom vehicle.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was “this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side”. The Critical Reason was a driver error, “aggressive driving”. An associative reason was road rage, as the driver was weaving through and making rapid lane changes. The driver was also angry with the phantom driver, as he had cut him off a few miles back, which started the initial road rage.