The crash occurred near the intersection of two roadways. The north/south roadway was a two-way, two-lane undivided street. The east/west roadway was a two-way, two-lane undivided street, controlled by a stop sign. The posted speed for north/south traffic was 40 kmph (25) mph. These were straight, level, asphalt roads. Conditions were daylight on a weekend afternoon with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 1997 Plymouth Breeze with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane one, approaching the intersection. The driver experienced a seizure, just as he entered the intersection. The vehicle began drifting to the right. Just after passing through the intersection, the vehicle departed the right side of the roadway. The front of V1 made contact with a mailbox post, measuring between ten to thirty centimeters in diameter. The vehicle continued traveling south. The front of V1 then made contact with a tree, measuring greater than ten centimeters in diameter. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The Plymouth Breeze was driven by a 29-year old male, who refused treatment. The driver would not admit to having a seizure. He stated that he was on his way to his aunt's house when the vehicle started pulling to the right. The driver claimed that the loss of control was probably due to low air pressure in the left front spare tire, which was a small, temporary tire. The driver could not, however, explain why this caused the vehicle to pull to the right instead of to the left, as expected.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related critical non-performance error, physical impairment of the ability to act. Scene evidence, along with the driver's failure to take any avoidance actions, suggested that the driver was incapacitated at the time of the crash. The probable cause of control loss, based on the driver's pre-existing health condition, was a seizure. The driver takes an unknown dosage of Phenobarbital twice daily to control the seizures. There was some doubt as to whether or not the driver was regularly taking his medication as prescribed. Associated factors coded to the driver include a history of seizures, seizure medication, and unfamiliarity with the roadway.