This two-vehicle crash occurred during the early morning hours of a weekday while daylight. The collision took place on an urban expressway near an adjoining driveway. The main roadway (southbound) was a three-lane expressway with a physically divided median off to the left side. The expressway had a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). The surface type for the roadway was that of bituminous asphalt. The roadway was dry and level, without any indications of physical damage. Weather conditions were mainly sunny.

Vehicle one, a 2001 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan, was originally traveling southbound in lane two of the roadway when the driver changed lanes to lane one of the roadway and made contact with Vehicle two, a 1995 Chevy Astro van (extended), which was also traveling southbound in lane one. The driver of V2 had slowed down, intending to make a right turn into a driveway when the front right of V1 struck the rear of V2. V1 did make an attempt to brake as indicated by skid marks on the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

After the initial impact, V2 began a clockwise yaw and made contact with the southwest curb edge of the roadway. Consequently, this tipping point caused V2 to overturn onto its left side. After being lifted upright again, V2 was towed away from the scene. Two of the four occupants in V2 were transported to a nearby hospital to be evaluated. The driver and front-seat passenger were both unharmed. V1 made primary contact with its right front-end and suffered disabling damage. The driver of V1 was unharmed from the collision but was notably shaken up and in tears. V1 was also towed from the scene. Neither vehicle had any air bags deploy. The travel speed of V1 was unknown.

The driver of V1, a 32 year-old female, did not return any phone calls. The driver was present at the scene; however, she was too shaken up to answer any questions. It has been determined by the officer-in-charge (and driver of V2) that the driver of V1 was talking on a cell phone at the time of the crash. In addition, a toothbrush and dental floss were found on the floor of the driver side compartment. It was learned by the father of the driver of V1 that she is currently a nursing student and travels "pretty far" to get to school - no other details were obtained from the driver of V1.

The driver of V2, a 32 year-old male in generally good health, stated he was on his way to drop off his daughter at school when the crash occurred. He reported that he had been traveling in the right lane (southbound lane one) "the entire time" when he signaled (right) to turn into the driveway of his daughter's school. As he began to slow down, he looked into his rear-view mirror to see the driver of V1 "coming at me fast" and talking on her cellular phone. At that point, the driver related that he applied his brakes and grabbed the steering wheel with both arms and began to brace for impact. The events unfolded rather quickly for him to remember anything else. The next thing he could remember, from that point, was his daughter crying and his car on its side. He was able to free his wife (front right passenger) and himself out the vehicle (both of whom were belted). Firefighters, then, were able to rescue the other two passengers in the back of the vehicle. The same two occupants suffered minor injuries and were transported to a nearby hospital. The driver related that this was a road that he travels everyday, as he also resides on the same street (approximately two blocks away from the scene of the crash). He drops his daughter off at school five days a week and also works five days a week. When asked his approximate travel speed, driver reported he was slowing down to 10-15 mph to make his right turn. When asked his speed prior, driver reported, "the speed limit." A cellular phone was also present, but was not in use at the time of the accident. It is also important to note that the windows of V2 were all tinted (all except one - right rear).

Another important factor in this crash were the after-market taillights of V2 (see images). These brake lights are not as bright as OEM taillights. Although they are SAE-DOT approved (see images), it makes it rather difficult for other motorists to see when the brake lights are on, especially in direct sunlight. Whether or not this played a role in the crash was unknown.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was coded as other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction while decelerating. The Critical Reason was coded as a driver related factor, internal distraction because she was talking on a cellular phone. No associated factors could be coded to the driver of V1 due to the lack of interview.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was coded as other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction at higher speed. No Critical Reason was coded for the driver of V2. The only associated factor that was coded to V2 was the presence of non-OEM brake lights.