This crash occurred during day light hours. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash. The crash occurred on a four-lane interstate with a divided median without a positive barrier. The crash occurred in the two westbound lanes. The roadway is bituminous, straight, and level. The speed limit is 113 kmph (70 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Suzuki Vitara with two occupants was westbound in lane two. V1 was following a non-contact vehicle, a 2005 International 430 straight truck with flat bed with one occupant. The non-contact vehicle was carrying boxes of tiles and one of the boxes fell from the bed of the vehicle. The left front wheel of V1 contacted the box of tiles as the driver steered right in an attempt to avoid the object. The vehicle initiated a clockwise rotation before the driver steered left as the vehicle ran off the north side of the roadway sliding with the right side leading. V1 rolled over to the right and then back on its wheels as it rolled down the embankment and the front struck a brush pile. V1 came to rest facing north. The driver of the non-contact vehicle brought the vehicle to a controlled stop on the right shoulder. V1 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 113 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1, a fifty year-old female, who takes Armour Thyroid for a Thyroid condition, was traveling west with a friend. She is very familiar with her vehicle and the roadway. She stated that she was having a casual conversation with the passenger when she noticed the cargo from the leading vehicle fall into the roadway. She steered right in an attempt to avoid the object and then steered left to stay on the road but went into a counter clockwise yaw and departed the roadway.

The driver of the non-contact vehicle, a thirty-four year-old healthy male, was traveling west, delivering cargo to a construction site. He is familiar with his vehicle and the roadway. He stated that he had just checked his cargo before leaving and it seemed secure. He stated that he saw the cargo go into the roadway and saw V1 strike the cargo in the roadway. Then he began to pull over.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded "object in roadway." The critical reason was coded "too fast for conditions-could not successfully respond to fallen object."