This two-vehicle crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a five-lane urban highway divided by a two-way left-turn lane. There were two travel lanes in each direction. The southbound approach was straight with a negative 3.8 percent downhill slope. There were three industrial parking lot entrances on the west side of the roadway. The posted speed limit was 72 kmph (45 mph). Setting was early afternoon hours on a clear, sunny and dry weekday.

V1 was a 1999 Chevrolet Lumina four-door sedan with two occupants traveling southbound in lane two. V2 was a 2003 Pontiac Vibe utility vehicle with one occupant traveling southbound in lane two, directly in front of V1. V2 was traveling below the posted speed limit. V1 failed to see V2 and collided into the rear of V2 in lane two. Neither vehicle made any avoidance maneuvers. V1 traveled 10 meters (33 feet) after impact and came to final rest in its original travel lane. V2 was pushed forward an unknown distance and came to rest in its original travel lane also. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 45 year-old female who was not injured in the crash. She had just left her home a few minutes prior and was on her way to a client's house. She was a registered nurse averaging 50 hours per week. She claimed that as she was driving 72 kmph (45 mph) in lane two, she saw nobody else on the roadway in front of her, so she looked down inside her vehicle for some unknown object. When she returned her eyes to the road, V2 was in her travel lane traveling at a lower velocity than she was. There was no time to make any avoidance maneuvers. She struck V2's back-end in her original travel lane. She said after impact, her vehicle traveled a short distance forward before stopping. Her vehicle was towed from the scene by a private tow company with disabling front-end damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in the same direction with a lower steady speed" The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "Internal Distraction" - a driver related error. This driver reported that she was looking inside her vehicle for an object just prior to the crash occurring. She suffers from acid reflux disease that requires a daily prescription medication. She claimed to have looked ahead and saw no vehicles in her lane. V2 was in her lane, so "looked but did not see" was coded as an inadequate surveillance factor. This driver had a combination of under inflated and over inflated tires. This was coded as a tire deficiency. There were no roadway or weather related factors.

The driver of V2 was a 46 year-old female who was not injured in the crash. She works full time in the delivery business. She was in her personal vehicle traveling in between pickup routes. She had only been on the road for a few minutes. She was not familiar with this roadway. She reported only driving on it one time per month. She reported driving approximately 56 kmph (35 mph) in lane two. As she was looking straight ahead she was unexpectedly struck from behind by V1. She never saw V1 prior to impact; therefore she made no avoidance maneuvers. She said the impact pushed her forward an unknown distance where she came to final rest in her original travel lane. Her vehicle was drivable, but towed from the scene.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling same direction with a higher steady speed." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. This driver was not familiar with this roadway, which may have been the reason for her driving under the posted speed limit. The very dirty windows were the only vehicle related factor in this crash.