This crash occurred in the late afternoon of a weekday in the northbound lanes of a multi-lane divided roadway. The roadway consisted of four northbound lanes and three southbound lanes divided by a curbed median. The bituminous roadway was dry, straight, and level with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). Traffic was slightly congested but there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 2000 Dodge Ram with one occupant was southbound in lane four. V2, a 1993 Cadillac Deville with one occupant, was southbound in lane four ahead of V2. V3, a 2000 Mazda MPV minivan with one occupant, was southbound in lane four ahead of V3. V4, a 1996 Nissan Maxima with one occupant, was southbound in lane four ahead of V3. A non-contact vehicle in front of V4 stopped suddenly to make a U-turn causing V4 to stop quickly. V2 and V3 stopped behind V4 but V1 was unable to stop in time. V1 rear-ended V2. V2 was pushed into the back of V3 and V3 was pushed into the back of V4. All vehicles came to final rest in lane four near the point of impact with V2 partially on the median. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage while V3 and V4 were driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 23-year-old male, was uninjured in the crash. He advised that he was driving along in lane four when traffic all of the sudden stopped. He said it was too late for him to do anything to avoid hitting V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The Critical Reason was a driver related error, following too closely to respond to unexpected actions of others.

The driver of V2, a 49-year-old male, was uninjured in the crash. The driver on scene stated that the traffic did indeed slow down because of other vehicles ahead but not as suddenly as V1 claimed. He claimed that V1 just failed to slow down.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in the same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associated factors.

The driver of V3, a 63-year-old male was not injured in the crash. He stated that he was in the far left lane when V4 slowed down and then stopped short. He said he had just come to a stop when he was struck in the rear by V2. The impact made him lunge forward and hit V4.

The Precrash Event for V3 was coded other, not involved in first harmful event. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associated factors.

The driver of V4, a 21-year-old female was transported due to possible injuries. She stated that she was in lane four going straight when a vehicle in front of her made an illegal U-turn. She said she pressed on the brakes and stopped. She then she heard the sounds of the vehicles behind her colliding and then she was struck.

Witnesses to the crash on scene corroborated this chain of events, which is different from how the police officer on-scene wrote it up on the PAR.