The crash occurred on the north and south roadsides of a two-way, two-lane, suburban roadway. There was one lane of travel each in the east and westbound directions. There was a neighborhood road intersecting to the south that was controlled by a stop sign. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The eastbound lane was on a 2 percent uphill grade. Conditions were daylight and dry with clear skies. The setting was morning hours on a weekday.

Vehicle one was a 2005 Acura RL 4-door sedan traveling eastbound in lane one. V1 traveled off the left side of the road into a patch of small trees and shrubs. The left plane of V1 impacted two small trees (Event 1). V1 continued through this patch impacting a third and fourth small tree with its front plane (Events 2 and 3). V1 then traveled a short distance on the grass roadside before crossing back over the roadway and departing the road on the southbound side. V1 continued down a three-foot negative slope before impacting two large trees with its front (Events 4 and 5). V1 came to rest wedged between the two large trees on the south roadside. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1.

The Acura RL (V1) was driven by a 27-year old male who was reported by police to be uninjured. He was treated on scene for cuts and scrapes to his face and body. The driver stated that he had just woken up, gotten into an argument with his girlfriend, and left her house to head for home. He claimed to have fallen asleep at the wheel. The investigating officer estimated his travel and impact speeds to be 96 kmph (60 mph) and 64 kmph (40 mph), respectively. A witness to the crash estimated this driver's speed to be 160 kmph (100 mph). The Acura sedan was towed due to damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side. The Critical Reason was a driver related factor of aggressive driving behavior. This driver was upset about his personal relationship with his girlfriend at the time of the crash - they had an argument within 30 minutes prior to the crash. The driver was unemployed at the time. This was his first time driving this roadway. A witness saw the driver traveling at excessive speed, and was almost struck by the driver's vehicle prior to the crash. The investigating officer charged the driver with careless and reckless driving.