The crash occurred on a two-lane rural roadway with grass shoulders. There was a left curve for the northbound approach as well as a hillcrest at the apex of the curve. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph), and both the north and southbound approaches were on a 3 percent uphill grade. Conditions were daylight and dry with clear skies. The setting was mid-afternoon hours on a weekday.

Vehicle one was a 1999 Jeep Wrangler sport utility traveling north negotiating the left curve and approaching the hillcrest. Vehicle two was a 1997 Chrysler Cirrus 4-door sedan traveling south negotiating a right curve and approaching the same hillcrest. Vehicle three was a 2002 Chevrolet Silverado pickup following behind V1 northbound. V1 crossed the centerline as V2 passed by in the opposite direction. The left plane of V1 impacted the front of V2 (Event 1). V1 then continued down the road several hundred meters before coming to rest on the right shoulder. V2 lost control after the initial impact and traveled into the oncoming lane. The front of V2 impacted the front of V3 (Event 2). V2 then pivoted counter-clockwise around V3's left front corner and subsequently damaged the left plane of v3. V2 came to rest in the middle of the road near the point of impact with V3. V3 departed the roadway to the right and struck a small driveway embankment with its front (Event 3), coming to rest at impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1 and 80 kmph for V2.

The Jeep Wrangler (V1) was driven by a 16-year old male who was uninjured. He stated that he was heading home from school. He went around a curve as another vehicle passed, and thought he was clear. He heard a crunching sound and then looked in his mirror to see the car spin out into his buddy driving behind him in a pickup truck. He pulled off the road and discovered he had a flat tire. He estimated his travel and impact speeds to be 74 kmph (46 mph). His Jeep sport utility continued in service after the spare tire was installed.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the left side of the travel lane. The Critical Reason was a driver related factor of poor directional control. This driver wore contacts for a nearsighted condition. He was a full-time student. He had been licensed and driving for only two months.

The Chrysler Cirrus (V2) was driven by a 64-year old female who transported to a local trauma center with incapacitating injuries. Her sister stated that she was heading to church when another vehicle came into her lane and hit her, knocking her out of control and into another vehicle head-on. The sister was not sure what the driver's travel speed was. The investigating officer estimated her travel and impact speeds to be 72 kmph (45 mph) and 64 kmph (40 mph). The Chrysler sedan was towed due to damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from the opposite direction over the left lane line. No Critical Reason was coded to this driver. This driver was taking medication for high blood pressure, high cholesterol, diabetes, and anxiety. She wore glasses. She had inadequate tread depth on her right front and right rear tires.

The Chevrolet Silverado (V3) was driven by a 16-year old male who was transported to a local trauma center with evident injuries. The driver's father stated that he was driving behind a friend from school when the friend crossed the centerline and sideswiped an oncoming car. The oncoming car then lost control and collided into his son's pickup head-on. He estimated his son's travel and impact speeds to be 72 kmph (45 mph). He says the son didn't have a chance to react, though the EDR and scene evidence suggest braking and steering right. The Chevrolet pickup was towed due to damage.

No Critical Pre-crash Event or Reason was coded to this vehicle because it was not involved in the first harmful event. This driver was talking to his passenger at the time. He had taken some tests at school that day which were on his mind. During the week he participated in strenuous football practices at school. He had only been driving for 18 months. The right rear tire on his pickup had inadequate tread depth.