This single vehicle crash occurred on a three lane non-divided asphalt road. This roadway runs north to south with two lanes going south and one going north. This road has a speed limit of 80 kmph (50 mph) with a downgrade of -6 % and a right hand curve. This road has guard railing on both sides. There are warning signs prior to the crash area reducing the speed to 80 kmph (50 mph). This crash occurred during the late afternoon with cloudy skies and heavy rain.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Chevrolet S-10 pickup, was northbound going down hill when it entered a right hand curve. As V1 entered the curve it began to rotate clockwise. V1 crossed the centerline rotating backwards then impacted a railing on the west side with its right front fender. V1 then slapped the railing with the entire right side bouncing off the railing. V1 crossed the centerline again coming to rest on the north bound lane heading in a westerly direction. The driver canceled EMS prior to arrival. V1 was towed for damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1 was a thirty two (32) year-old male with one passenger who stated that he was traveling around 64 kmph (40 mph) when his vehicle hit a wet patch that caused it to lose traction and start to rotate. He stated that he and his occupant were only bruised and canceled EMS. They were having a conversation while traveling to a church hall. The driver has lower back pain and takes the medications oxycodone and oxycontin. The driver had slept just 3 hours the previous night due to this condition.

The critical pre-crash event was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason was coded as a driver related factor: too fast for conditions (specified as: rain and wet roadway). Inattention was an associative factor due to the conversation with the passenger. Fatigue was a factor due to the lack of sleep. The medications may have slowed down the driver's reaction time resuting in poor directional control.