The crash occurred in the middle of a 3-way intersection. The east/west roadway was divided by a raised curb median with four lanes in each direction. For both directions of travel, lane four was a left turn-only lane. The intersecting roadway had one lane northbound and one lane southbound. The intersection was controlled by traffic lights. The east/west roadway was straight and level. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekday afternoon. The posted speed was 56 kmph (35 mph).

V1 was a 1999 Mazda Miata convertible that was traveling westbound in lane two, intended to continue straight through the intersection. V2 was a 2001 Pontiac Grand Prix that was traveling in the eastbound direction in lane four, attempting a left turn at the intersection. V2 got a green left turn arrow and entered the intersection. When V2 had almost completed its turn, V1 ran a red light and hit the right rear side of V2. Following the impact, V2 rotated clockwise before coming to final rest facing in a southeast direction. Both vehicles were towed due to damage but no one was injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 44-year-old year old female who had just left a dentist appointment. She stated in the interview that she had a green light and was passing through the intersection when V2 made a left turn in front of her. She said she hit the brakes, honked the horn, and swerved to the left. Her vehicle then hit the right rear tire and side panel of V2. Her vehicle had front-end damage. Two witnesses came forward and reported that V2 had a green turn arrow and V1 a red light.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to V1; however, the associated factor of illegal maneuver was coded to the driver for failing to stop for a traffic control device.

V2 was driven by an 82-year-old male who was on his way home after doing some shopping. He had a green arrow and was making a left turn. When he was almost through the intersection his passenger noticed a red car speeding through the intersection and running a red light. His vehicle was then hit on the rear right wheel and side panel. The impact sent the vehicle into a clockwise spin.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was this vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as inadequate surveillance because the driver of V2 failed to look at oncoming traffic before turning. No additional associated factors were coded to this driver.