The single vehicle, weekend, early afternoon crash occurred off the right side of a rural, 2-lane, 2-way, bituminous roadway curving to the left as it entered a straight-a-way with an uphill grade of 5%. At the time of the crash it was daylight, the road was wet and it was raining lightly. The posted speed limit was 89 kmh (55mph).

V1, a 1997 Ford Explorer occupied by a 19 year-old male driver and his hunting dog, were southbound in lane one negotiating the curve/roadway described above. V1 drifted off the roadway as the curve straightened out, hit a bump and went air born. V1 rotated clockwise in the air about 50 degrees and when it landed rolled over, left side leading, 5/4 turns. V1 came to rest on the driver's side facing west-northwest on the west edge of the road. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver stated that he was headed southbound at about 40-45 mph running an errand after just leaving his home. He had taken his hunting dog with him and the dog was in the front passenger floor. As he was negotiating the left hand curve, he reached over to pet/quiet and looked at the dog while doing so. When he looked up he saw that he was running off the road to the right. He grabbed the wheel with both hands and tried to steer left but then hit a bump, went air born, landed and rolled over 5/4 turns to the left. He said he was not in a hurry and was familiar with the road.

The Critical pre-crash event for v1 was this vehicle traveling “off the edge of the road on the right side”. The Critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was internal distraction. Some contributing factors for v1 include the weather conditions (rain), the road condition (wet) and the driver only having 1 hand on the wheel. Others include his attention being diverted from the road, not wearing glasses that were recommended (but not required for driving), suffering from the early stages of and taking medication for a cold and worn shocks on the vehicle allowing it to lean further than usual when turning.