This two-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of a T-intersection. There were two southbound and two northbound travel lanes with a center two-way left turn lane. There was curbside parking permitted on both the right and left sides of the north/southbound travel lanes. There were no traffic control devices at this T-intersection for the north/southbound traffic. The asphalt roadway was dry, level, and straight and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred on a weekend during the early afternoon daylight hours. The roadway was free of any defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.

Vehicle one, a 2006 Pontiac G6 4-door sedan, was traveling northbound in lane two traveling through the intersection when it contacted with its front the right side of vehicle two, a 1993 Buick Lesabre 4-door sedan, traveling through the same intersection attempting to make a left turn eastbound. After the initial impact, vehicle one rotated 45 degrees clockwise and again contacted with its front the front of vehicle two where it came to final rest facing southward. Vehicle two, after the initial contacted, rotated 180 degrees clockwise and came to final rest facing southward. Vehicles one and two damages were disabling and both were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a 33-year old male, said he was traveling northbound in lane two attempting to continue traveling straight before the crash occurred. He said, he saw vehicle two traveling southbound in the opposite direction at a moderate speed when all of a sudden V2 seemed to speed up and attempt to make a left turn eastbound. He slammed on his brakes but it was too late, we crashed into one another. Vehicle two was traveling in lane one, the lane nearest the southbound curb edge three lanes over, the wrong lane for making a turn. There is a center turn median. I guess he thought he could complete his turn before I reached the intersecting street. I'm a doctor and I just left work. The day was not particularly stressful and I left minutes ago. I travel on this roadway daily and I have at least 16-years experience of driving. He said he was reading over some paperwork, however, it didn't distract him from his driving ability. He was not injured.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V1 is: “other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction - over left lane line”. The Critical Reason was “not coded to this vehicle”. Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle include: possible distraction, driving while reading material, looked but did not see.

The driver of vehicle two, a 24-year old male, said he was traveling southbound in lane one not paying much attention to the upcoming intersection when he realized he could get to his destination quicker if he turned left at the intersection. He also said he saw the traffic coming in the opposite direction but thought he could make his turn before any of the vehicles reached the intersection. He was traveling approximately 56 kmph (35 mph) and he is familiar with the roadway. He said it was just a bad decision on his part. He's been a licensed driver for 7-years. He was transported to the hospital from the scene with non-life threatening injuries.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V2 is: “this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection”. The Critical Reason coded to this vehicle is: a decision error, “misjudgment of gap or others speed”. Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle include: illegal maneuver turned from wrong lane.