This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The east/west roadway is undivided and straight. The eastbound approach has an uphill grade and consists of one through lane. The north/south roadway is undivided and straight. The northbound approach is level and consists of one through lane and one left turn lane. The speed limit for these roadways is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Ford Explorer, was stopped eastbound in lane one behind a non-contact bus. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Dodge Ram pickup, was northbound in lane one. The bus entered the intersection and turned right. V1 entered the intersection, going straight, and the right side was struck by the front of V2. Both vehicles rotated clockwise and traveled toward the northeast corner of the intersection. The back left tire/wheel of V1 struck the curb and V1 began to roll over to the left. The top of V1 then struck a utility pole. The left side of V2 then struck the undercarriage of V1 and the back left tire/wheel of V2 then struck the curb. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a seventeen-year-old male, was traveling with his fifteen-year-old sister. They had left their home and were on the way to school. This driver was well rested, healthy and comfortable with his vehicle and passenger. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that the bus restricted his view and he thought that the light must have been green since the bus proceeded into the intersection. He stated that he saw V2 just prior to the crash and did not attempt any avoidance maneuvers.

The driver of V2, a forty-four-year-old male, had just left his home with his two young children. This driver was healthy, well rested and comfortable with his vehicle and passengers. He travels this route daily. He stated that he saw V1 just prior to the crash and did not attempt any avoidance maneuvers.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

The sightline restriction created by the non-contact bus was an associated factor for both drivers in this crash.