This single-vehicle crash occurred in the afternoon of a weekday on the shoulder of a multi-lane highway. The interstate consists of two four-lane roads divided by a grass median and high-tension cable guardrail. At the location of this crash, there is an additional lane for traffic entering the highway and the road has a slight curve to the right. The bituminous roadway is dry and level with a posted speed limit of 105 kmph (65 mph). The traffic level was low and the weather conditions were clear and daylight.

V1, a 2006 Honda Civic with one occupant, was westbound in lane four intending to go straight when another westbound vehicle merged into his direction. This driver swerved to avoid the merging car (NCV) and lost control of his own Honda, which caused him to spin uncontrollably across all the four lanes and into a steel guardrail (w-beam type). V1 spun clockwise into the guardrail and struck it with its front bumper. V1 continued to spin 180 degrees and came to rest against the guardrail facing south. The vehicle was towed from the scene due to disabling damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 121 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1 is a 37-year-old male that works in 12-hour rotating shifts. He worked 62 hours the past seven days and averages 8 hours of sleep each day but he cut his sleep to 4.5 hours today because he wanted to play soccer this afternoon. He was driving to the soccer match when this crash occurred. As he was westbound in lane four, he noticed a red car (NCV) entering the highway from the acceleration ramp. As the red car gained speed, it was also changing lanes and it appeared its driver did not see this driver in his lane. This driver took his foot off the accelerator and blew his horn when the red car neared lane three, but when the red car did not change its course and merged into lane four, this driver jerked his steering wheel to the left. This driver could not regain control of his car and spun clockwise across all four lanes, off the roadway and into the guardrail. This driver suffered bruised ribs but was not transported from the scene to the hospital, however his wife said she was going to take him to their doctor after they cleared the scene.

The Critical Precrash Event for this driver was coded "this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded "too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others". Associated factors include did not realize that caution was required and insufficient steering and braking.