This two-vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane mountain state highway. The roadway was wet, bituminous and undivided with one lane in each direction. Eastbound traffic was level and straight. Westbound traffic was on a right curve with an uphill grade. There was a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph) for both east and westbound traffic. There was a curve advisory speed reduction sign for eastbound traffic for a speed of 48 kmph (30 mph) for the curve. This crash occurred during mid-afternoon daylight hours with light traffic flow.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2008 Chrysler Pacifica station wagon with one occupant, was eastbound, traveling over the center double-yellow lane lines into the westbound traffic. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Plymouth Neon with three occupants, was westbound in lane one, negotiating a right curve. The driver of V1 stated he was lost and was looking at a copy of a map with directions he had printed out. He stated he saw V2 right before impact after they had just come around the bend. He stated that instead of steering right to avoid the collision, he steered left and impacted with his front to V2's front. The driver of V2 stated she was negotiating the right curve and after coming around the corner, she saw V1 in her lane. She tapped her brakes and tried to slow down as much as possible before the impact. After the impact, V1 rotated clockwise and impacted a rock on an uphill embankment with its back. V1 then rotated slightly and came to rest on its wheels facing southeast, partially on the side of the road and shoulder on the north side of the road. After the impact, V2 rotated clockwise and came to rest on its wheels facing northwest in the westbound lane. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-two year-old male was driving from home in another city to a hotel to visit his girlfriend. He was very concerned about being lost and was frustrated. He knew he had taken the wrong roadway and was thinking about turning around when the crash occurred. He stated he slept five to six hours the night before, which is his normal sleep and he wakes up rested. He is in good health and takes no medication. He has two jobs and works fifty-five hours a week. This was his first time on this roadway and first time driving this rented vehicle, which he felt very comfortable driving.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the left side of the travel lane. The critical reason for the critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: internal distraction, looking down at directions (e.g., map and direction sheet).

The driver of V2, a twenty-two year-old female was driving from shopping to her home. She stated that lately she wakes up drowsy even with eight hours of sleep. She is near-sighted and was wearing her contacts at the time of the crash. She does not take any medication but stated she wears an IUD. She is very familiar with the vehicle and drives this roadway daily.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in opposite direction. The critical reason for V2 was not coded to this vehicle.

Driver two had a passenger in the back seat on the left side. The passenger is twenty months old and was not in a correct child seat for his age and weight. The driver stated she knew he was too big for the seat but did not have the money to buy another seat. The driver stated that the occupant's shirt would sometimes get caught up in the harness and knew it wasn't safe. The driver also stated she could not get the strap between the legs to buckle. When the crash occurred, the passenger flew out of the child seat and landed on the back seat floor. He ended up breaking both of his arms as a result.