This three-vehicle crash occurred on an undivided roadway approaching a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The north/south roadway is straight and level and the northbound traffic lanes consist of one through lane and a left turn lane. The speed limit on this roadway is 40 kmph (25 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Pontiac Grand Prix, was northbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Chevrolet Avalanche, was northbound in lane one in front of V1 and vehicle three (V3), a 2002 Cadillac Eldorado, was in front of V2, intending to turn right at the intersection. The northbound traffic had a green traffic signal but V3 stopped due to a pedestrian in the cross walk. V2 stopped behind V3. The front of V1 struck the back of V2. V2 moved forward and the front struck the back of V3. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-two-year-old female, was traveling from a church to a store. Her two young daughters were in the back seat. This driver was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route several times each month. This driver turned her head and was looking at her daughters, disciplining them. She also had a cell phone in her hand.

Witness one advised he was sitting in his front yard watching traffic waiting on the arrival of a guest. He stated he heard yelling coming from a vehicle and witnessed V1 traveling at a high rate of speed while on a cell phone. He further advised that he saw driver one's head turned completely around looking into the back seat at a child that was standing in her seat. He further advised that driver one was yelling and swatted at the standing child. He also stated that when the crash occurred driver one was still looking in the backseat.

The driver of V2, a fifty-five-year-old male, was on his way home from having lunch with his wife, the driver of V3. He was healthy and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily.

The driver of V3, a fifty-year-old female, was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle. She travels this route daily.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane; other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.