The crash occurred in the middle of a four-way intersection. The north/south roadway was divided with five lanes in each direction on the approach to the intersection. The intersection was controlled by a traffic signal. In both directions, lane five was a left turn-only lane. The east/west roadway was a five-lane undivided roadway. All roadways were straight and level. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekend early evening. The posted speed was 72 KMPH (45 MPH). Traffic flow was normal.

V1 was a 2007 Chrysler 300M 4-door sedan that was traveling southbound in lane three. The driver was attempting to make a left hand turn at the light. As the driver made the left, the right side of V1 was hit by the front of V2, a 2002 Volkswagen Jetta 4-door sedan that was traveling northbound in lane two. V1 then hit V3, a 1997 Honda CRV utility vehicle, which was stopped at the red light facing west on the east/west roadway. All three vehicles were towed due to damage. The driver of V1 and the passenger in V2 were both transported to a local hospital with injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 64-year-old female who was on her way to a friend's birthday party. The driver stated that she had a "solid green" light and had the right to make the left turn. The driver then stated that V2 ran a yellow light and hit her. The driver stated that she tried to hit the brakes and steer away from the crash but then ended up hitting V3, who was stopped at the red light.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling, making a left turn. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was a driver error, inadequate surveillance. The driver was cited for the crash for failure to yield the right of way. An associated factor coded to the driver of V1 was the use of pain medication for an unknown condition.

V2 was driven by a 21-year-old female who was on her way home from the gym. The driver stated that she was in lane two heading northbound and as she was approaching the intersection the light turned yellow. She was almost in the intersection and was not able to stop. The driver then stated that V1 just turned in front of her. She stated that she tried every avoidance action to avoid hitting V1 but was unsuccessful.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from the opposite direction over the left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to the driver was a conversation with the passenger.

V3 was driven by a 21-year-old male who was stopped at the red light in lane three facing westbound. The driver and his family were on their way to the mall to run an errand. The driver stated that he saw the crash happen. The driver could not take any avoidance maneuvers because he had other vehicles to his right and behind him. The driver saw V1 and V2 collide but didn't think anyone would hit him, as they were both in the intersection. V1 then hit him on his right side panel.

No Critical Pre-crash Event and no Critical Reason were coded to V3, because it was not involved in the first harmful event. No associated factors were coded to the driver of V3.