The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a six-lane roadway. There were two eastbound lanes and three westbound lanes divided by a left-turn lane. This was a bituminous roadway with a downhill grade and a posted speed of 72 kmph (45 mph). It was evening on a weekend and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic was flowing.

V1, a 1995 GMC Sierra pick-up with one occupant was traveling northbound in a commercial driveway. V2, a 2006 Pontiac Solstice two-door with one occupant was traveling eastbound in lane two. The driver of V1 stated that he had approached the roadway and had been stopped for more than ten seconds before proceeding. He stated that he did not see V1 and so he initiated his turn. The driver of V2 stated that she saw V2 right as he pulled out and applied the brakes but could not avoid contacting V1. The front of V1 contacted the front of V2. V1 came to final rest facing west in lane three of the westbound lanes. V2 rotated counterclockwise and came to final rest facing east in lane one of the eastbound lanes. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the GMC Sierra was driven by a 29-year old male. He reported no injuries and refused treatment. He stated that he had just left work and was on his way to lunch. He stated that he had been stopped at the roadway for more than ten seconds before proceeding at 2-16 kmph (1-10 mph). He did not see V1 prior to impact.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V1 was: This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a driver related factor: Inadequate surveillance (failed to look, looked but did not see). An associated factor coded to V1 was an inadequate surveillance-failed to look either side ahead.

V2, the Pontiac Solstice was driven by a 51-year old female. She reported injuries and was transported to a local trauma facility. She stated that she had just come from the mall and was on her way home. She stated that she had been traveling between 50-64 kmph (31-40 mph) prior to applying the brakes. She could not avoid V1.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V1 was: Other vehicle encroachment from driveway, turning into opposite direction. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to this vehicle was V2 only drove this roadway several times a month.