This two-vehicle crash occurred on a weekday afternoon in a three-legged intersection with traffic lights. The east/west trafficway is straight with an intersecting roadway on the south side. The roadway east of the intersection is undivided, consists of three lanes in each direction and has a downhill grade in the westbound direction. The trafficway west of the intersection is divided by a painted median. The eastbound lanes have an uphill grade and consist of two through lanes. The speed limit for this trafficway is 54 kmph (35 mph). The road surface was dry and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Toyota 4-Runner, was traveling west in the third lane, turning left at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Jeep Grand Cherokee, was traveling east in lane two. In the intersection, the front of V2 impacted the right side of V1, causing V1 to roll over onto its left side. V1 rolled over to the left one quarter-turn and came to rest facing south. V2 rotated clockwise and came to rest on its wheels facing southeast. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 48-year old male drove V1. He was going to pick up his wife from work. The driver was well rested and on his day off. He rarely drives in this area but is familiar with the vehicle. He takes an unspecified medication for high blood pressure. He stated that he was looking south at his turn destination. When he looked back to the right, he saw V2 approaching at high speed. He said he did not see V2 approaching the intersection when he started his turn.

The critical pre-crash event was coded "turning left at an intersection." The critical reason for the critical event was coded "driver related error -inadequate surveillance (e. g., failed to look, looked but did not see)."

An 18-year old female, who claimed no injuries, drove V2. She was well rested, on her day off, and was in good health, taking no medications. She is familiar with the vehicle and drives on this roadway on a daily basis. She and her father were heading back home from a nearby bank. She stated she approached the intersection driving the speed limit of 54 kph (35 mph) and had a green light. She stated that she thought that V1 would yield the right-of-way.

The critical pre crash event was coded "other vehicle encroaching into the lane, over the left lane of travel." No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle.