The crash occurred in a T-intersection of two undivided three-lane roadways. Both were straight and bituminous with a posted speed of 72 kmph (45 mph). The north/south roadway had two southbound lanes, one being a right turn-only lane. There was one northbound lane. The southbound lanes had a negative grade of 2 percent. The east/west roadway ended at the intersection in the eastbound direction. There was one lane westbound and two lanes eastbound, with lane two being a left turn-only lane. This roadway was level. The eastbound roadway was controlled by a stop sign, while the north/south roadway had no traffic control devices.

V1, a 1997 Nissan Quest minivan with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane two. V1 was approaching the intersection intending to turn left. V2, a 1998 Chevrolet Blazer utility vehicle with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane two. V2 was approaching the intersection intending to go straight. The driver of V1 stopped at the intersection and waited to turn left. There was a bus heading southbound in lane one turning right that obstructed V1's view of V2. The driver of V1 thought it was clear and initiated the left turn. The driver of V2 saw V1 just prior to impact and applied the brakes. The front of V2 contacted the left front of V1. V1 came to final rest facing east in the northbound lane and V2 came to rest facing south in the northbound lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was an 18-year old male. He reported minor injuries but refused treatment. He stated that he had just left his house and was on his way to work. He stated that he had been stopped at the stop sign for more than ten seconds before he proceeded to turn left at 2-16 kmph (1-10 mph). He stated that he did not see V2 and did not attempt any avoidance actions.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for the driver of V1 was: This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was a driver related error: Turned with obstructed view. Associated factors coded to this driver: he was an inexperienced driver, he was running late for work, and the bus obstructed his view of V2.

The driver of V2 was a 30-year old female. She reported minor injuries and was treated on scene. She stated that she had just left her house and was on her way to work. She stated that she had been traveling between 67-80 kmph (41-50 mph) prior to applying the brakes. She could not avoid V1.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for the driver of V2 was: Other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to this driver include the use of medication for acid reflux disease, a sightline restriction due to the school bus turning in the right lane, and an external focus on another vehicle that she thought was going to pull out in front of her.