This two-vehicle crash occurred at a railroad crossing on an undivided, two-lane roadway. Both approaches curve to the right. The speed limit for this roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). Gates, cross bucks and flashing lights, control this railroad crossing. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Oldsmobile Intrigue, was southbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Buick Century, was northbound in lane one. As V2 was crossing the railroad tracks, V1 traveled over the center lane line. The front of V1 struck the left side of V2. V2 rotated and the right side struck the cross buck post. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-one-year-old male, was not interviewed. He was traveling with two female passengers. The police report indicated that this driver was "intoxicated from an alcoholic beverage" and was issued several citations including driving while intoxicated, speeding and reckless driving. No further information is available for this driver.

The driver of V2, a forty-eight-year-old male, was on his way to church from his home. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route weekly. This driver stated that he saw V1 approaching and "I threw my hands up in the air and prayed to God that I wouldn't get hit head on." He made no attempt to avoid the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; " The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; poor directional control (e.g., failing to control vehicle with skill ordinarily expected)." This driver's intoxication and speed were associated factors in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver panic/freezing was an associated factor in this crash.