The crash occurred at the intersection of a secondary road that ran north/south and a subdivision entrance in a residential area that intersected from the east. The secondary road had a negative 8.3% grade at 40 meters north of impact, and was level at the impact point. The secondary road was straight with a speed limit of 48kph/30mph. The subdivision entrance was also straight and was level as well. The speed limit there was 24 kmph (15 mph). The entry had a raised median with a wall that gave the subdivision's name and was decorated with bushes. The median wall was setback almost 6 meters east from the secondary road edge. There were no traffic controls for either traffic way. The crash occurred at night under cloudy, unlit conditions on a weekend.

V1, a 1997 Nissan 4x4 pickup, was turning left (south) from the subdivision onto the secondary road when it was struck on the left side by the front of V2, a 1999 Jeep Grand Cherokee 4x4, that was traveling north on the secondary road. V1 then tripped and rolled ¼ turn to its right and came to rest a few meters north if impact facing west. V2 also came to rest within a few meters north of impact straddling the double yellow line facing northwest. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a restrained 25-year-old male whose airbags did not deploy (never replaced after a previous crash). His right front 22-year-old belted female passenger was transported to a local hospital with non-incapacitating injuries. The driver stated he "had only one beer before driving" but his passenger was "sloshed". He also stated that he had stopped behind the wall and could not see to his left but proceeded anyway since he didn't see any approaching headlights.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, turning left at an intersection. The Critical Reason was coded as a decision error, turned with obstructed view. The driver was also conversing with his passenger who was apparently inebriated. The driver of V1 claimed stress at work due to extended shifts. V1 also had low tread on the left, rear tire.

V2 was driven by a 33-year-old belted male who was uninjured in the crash and whose airbags did not deploy. He left the scene before the researcher could make initial contact.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into the opposite direction. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The raised median with the wall was coded as blocking the driver of V2's view of V1. No other contributing factors were coded to this vehicle.