This two-vehicle crash occurred on an interchange exit ramp. This roadway is one-way, curves to the right, has an uphill grade and consists of one lane. There is a traffic signal at the intersecting roadway. The speed limit for this roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Ford Escort, was southbound on the exit ramp. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Mack RD600 garbage truck, was southbound on the exit ramp in front of V1. V2 was slowing down and the front of V1 struck the back of V2. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a seventeen-year-old male, was traveling with his mother and younger sisters. They were on their way home from the sisters' day camp. This driver was well rested. He has allergies and takes the medications Prevacid, Singulair, Advair and Nasonex. He has driven this vehicle a few times in the past three months and travels this route several times each month. This driver has six months of driving experience. He was not wearing his required corrective lenses at the time of the crash. This driver stated that he was talking to his passengers and looked down at the speedometer right before the crash. When he looked back at the roadway and realized that V2 was slowing, he applied the brakes, skidding longitudinally.

The driver of V2, a fifty-three-year-old male, was traveling from a job site to another job site. He was healthy and had been driving heavy trucks for twenty years. He travels this route daily. He stated that he was in a hurry at the time of the crash. He experiences some work stress due to extended shifts and stated that he felt fatigued at the time of the crash. This driver stated that he saw V2 just before the crash, but was unable to avoid it due to traffic in front of him.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction while decelerating." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; internal distraction." This driver's inexperience and failure to wear his glasses were associated factors in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."