The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of an interstate highway divided by a positive barrier just past the entrance to an exit ramp. There were four lanes in each direction. The roadway was curved to the left (radius of curvature of 929m and super-elevation of 2%), level, dry, asphalt with a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). There were no other traffic control devices. The crash occurred on a weekday morning just after the rush hour while traffic was moderate under clear skies.

V1, a 2004 Chevy Silverado pickup truck with one occupant was eastbound in lane two. V2, a 1992 Honda Accord two door with two occupants was stopped eastbound in lane two ahead of V1. V1 braked without lock up in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid striking V2. The front of V1 struck the rear of V2 pushing it forward and to the left. After impact V1 continued traveling eastbound and came to rest facing east straddling lanes one and two about 38 m east of impact. V2 after impact yawed and rotated in a clockwise direction to the northeast. It came to rest facing south straddling the left shoulder and lane four about 65 m east of impact. Both vehicles were towed due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Chevy Silverado, was driven by a 69-year old male who was not injured. The driver reported that he was traveling about 80 kmph (50 mph) while in route from home to a doctor's appointment. He said he was not distracted by anything when questioned, but added that he did not notice that V2 had stopped in the traffic lane ahead of him until just a second before, and his braking was not able to stop his vehicle before impact. He said he was in lane one but the marks at impact indicate he was in lane 2. He added that he did not see any traffic stopped ahead of V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was other motor vehicle in lane stopped. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded “inattention”. An associated factor was assigned to this vehicle for driver physical condition. The driver is suffering from lung cancer and a bad back, but said he was not taking any medications. He is also hearing impaired and uses a hearing aid. Another factor was assigned for driver behavior, performance, emotional because of his concerns about his lung cancer. Factors were also assigned for driver behavior, inattention - thought focus unknown. The driver claimed that he only saw V2 one second before impact.

V2, the Honda Accord, was driven by a 20-year old female who was coded for non-incapacitating injury and transported to a hospital along with her 24-year old passenger who received possible injuries. The driver reported that she was transporting her passenger from work to a hospital and that she did not know how to get there. The passenger was supposedly guiding her to the location. The driver said that just as she was passing the exit ramp the passenger told her that she needed to exit. The driver who rarely drove this route stopped in the traffic lane of the interstate and signaled her intent to move to her right. She said she was in lane one but the yaw marks at impact indicate that she was in lane two. She said she was stopped for about a minute watching for an opening and that there was no traffic ahead of her. She advised that she never saw V1 and that she took no evasive actions before being struck.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was other motor vehicle in lane traveling in the same direction with a higher speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The driver came to a complete stop in a traffic lane of a high-speed interstate highway. Associated factors were assigned for driver physical condition (she was pregnant); for driver behavior, recognition - she was conversing with her passenger; for driver behavior, decision - illegal maneuver (stopping in a lane of a highway); and for driver behavior, inexperience. The driver rarely drove this roadway, did not know how to get to her destination, and was totally dependant on her passenger for directions while they were traveling.