This two-vehicle crash occurred in the afternoon of a weekday in the middle of an interchange/intersection. The intersection consisted of two multi-lane divided roadways controlled by a properly functioning traffic signal and a protected left-turn arrow for traffic turning onto the highway entrance ramp. The main thoroughfare is a north/south divided highway with six lanes for each direction. The bituminous roadway is dry, straight, and level with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (55 mph). The conditions were clear, dry, daylight and the traffic level was low to moderate for that time of day.

V1, a 2002 Buick Park Avenue with one occupant, was northbound in lane six approaching the intersection where it intended to go straight. V2, a 2005 Mack dump truck with one occupant, was stopped facing south in lane six (designated left-turn lane) waiting to turn left. As V1's driver approached the intersection he failed to stop when the light turned red for him. The signal turned green for V2's driver and he began his left turn maneuver. Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the front of V2 struck the left side of V1, which caused a mortal injury for its driver. V1 traveled approximately 28 meters where it came to final rest in northbound lane one. A fire started under V1's hood and it was towed from the scene due to disabling damage. V2 was driven from the scene. There were no precrash tire marks for either vehicle at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1 and 89 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a retired 83-year-old male, was driving home for dinner but not many details are known for this driver because his wife declined to participate in the study. The driver's son-in-law said the family was concerned about this driver's ability to drive after he recently was overlooking street signs and his reaction time was slowing.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded “other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor includes an illegal maneuver (failing to stop for TCD).

The driver of V2, a 40-year-old male, that works for a sanitation company was not allowed to speak with me because his safety director said their company needed to complete its own investigation and it was company policy for its drivers not speak to anybody. I did overhear the driver talking about the crash to the police, fire fighters, and his managers but he did not speak with me directly. He said he was returning to the shop after dropping off a truckload of garbage at the landfill (5 miles away from crash site) and as he was turning left, V1 drove across his path.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded “this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded “unknown recognition error”.