This crash occurred in a three way controlled intersection. The eastbound roadway was a two-lane roadway divided by a grass median with one lane going in each direction. The north and south roadway consisted of five lanes divided by a concrete median. The north roadway was a two-lane roadway with both lanes continuing north. The south roadway was a three-lane roadway with two lanes continuing south and one lane designated as a left turn only lane. The north/south roadway was a straight, level, and bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). The east roadway was a straight, level, and bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred in the early afternoon on a weekday, the roads were dry and skies were clear. The traffic flow was congested with stop-and-go traffic activity.

V1, a 1999 Chevrolet Malibu 4-door was traveling south in lane three intending on making a left at the intersection. V2, a 1993 GMC 2500 pickup truck with a trailer, was traveling north in lane one intending on continuing straight. As both vehicles approached the intersection, they both had a green light to go through the intersection. V1 decelerated in order to turn left and proceeded to make the left turn. At that time V2, was traveling straight and attempted to stop to avoid a collision with V1. V1 as well attempted to brake to avoid the crash but was unsuccessful. The right front of V1 struck the left front of V2. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Chevrolet Malibu was driven by a 36-year-old male who reported no injuries at the time of the crash. The driver stated that he was running errands and was intending on making a left turn at the intersection. As he approached the intersection he slowed down and thought that the roadway coming in the other direction was clear and proceeded to turn left. However, the roadway was not clear, V2 was traveling north in lane one. When the driver noticed V2 he attempted to brake but was unsuccessful in avoiding the collision. The right front of V1 struck the left front of V2.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V1 was coded as, "This vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection". The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded as "inadequate surveillance- looked but didn't see". The only other associated factors that were coded to this vehicle were congested roadway.

V2, the GMC 2500 was driven by a 36-year-old male who complained of back pain but refused medical treatment. The passenger, a 21-year-old male, reported no injuries at the time of the crash. The driver's girlfriend said that he was in work vehicle and traveling somewhere work related, either to lunch or another job. The driver was heading straight in lane one approaching the intersection when he saw V1 making a left. The driver attempted to stop, but it is difficult to stop with the added weight due to the trailer of landscaping equipment (girlfriend estimated 5,000 lbs of landscaping equipment but was uncertain). The right front of V1 struck the left front of V2.

The Critical pre-crash event was coded as, "Other vehicle encroachment- from opposite direction-over left lane line". The critical reason for critical pre-crash was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factor that was coded to this vehicle was a congested roadway.