The crash occurred on a 4-lane roadway near an intersection. The north/south roadway was divided by a raised curb median and there were two lanes in each direction. At the point of impact, the northbound roadway became three lanes, but pre-impact, there were only two lanes. The northbound section of the roadway was bituminous, curved to the left and had a downhill grade of 5 percent. The posted speed limit was 64 kmph (40 mph). It was the early evening on a weekday. Traffic flow was heavy. The sky was overcast and it was drizzling.

V1, a 1993 Geo Prism 4-door, was driven by a 32-year old male who was traveling with 4 passengers. V1 was traveling northbound in lane 1 at an unknown speed. Traffic ahead was stopped for a red traffic signal. V2, a 2006 Ford F750 heavy straight truck, was stationary in lane 1. When the driver of V1 realized that V2 was stopped, he applied the brakes. V1 slid on the pavement that was wet due to light rain, and the front of V1 struck the rear of V2, underriding V2. The driver of V1 stated that he didn't know that traffic had completely stopped. He said he had enough time to avoid hitting the truck, but when he hit the brakes, his car began sliding and did not stop. The driver of V1 was transported due to possible injuries. The right front passenger was also transported for possible injuries as well. An interpreter had to be used for the driver, as he claimed to not speak any English. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2 was driven by a 31- year old male who was traveling with one passenger. The cargo consisted of various landscaping equipment that also included a large mechanical hole digger. The driver said he was hauling about 2000 pounds worth of equipment. He stated that he was sitting at the light when he felt his truck jerk. He said he thought it might have been his cargo that moved. He said he got out of his vehicle and noticed that his truck had been hit. He said he didn't see the incident so there wasn't much he could comment on.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was other vehicle stopped in lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was a driver related recognition error, inadequate surveillance, for failing to look far enough ahead. Associated factors included traveling too fast for conditions, the wet roadway, the weather (rain), and a tire deficiency because all four tires had low tread and were under inflated. Because the driver had 4 people in the vehicle with him, it was possible that he was distracted by conversations that were going on in his vehicle.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to V2 were the rain and the wet roadway.