This two-vehicle crash occurred at a straight roadway under construction. The travel lanes were limited to one eastbound and one westbound, both nearest the south curb-line. The remaining portion was under construction and was graded earth lower then the two paved lanes. The two lanes were separated by tall cones with lights that were not operating at the time of this crash. This crash occurred at the opening to a private driveway. The posted speed limit for each roadway is 40 kmph (25 mph). This crash occurred during hours of daylight, the weather was clear with no adverse atmospheric conditions. The roadways are constructed of bituminous asphalt.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1987 Chevrolet Nova four door with one occupant, was westbound in the number one lane V1 was approaching an intersection about 36 meters (118 feet) further west. The driver became confused by the construction and mistakenly made a left turn into what she thought was the street intersection. She actually turned left into the opening of a private driveway. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Plymouth Neon four door with two occupants, was eastbound in the number one lane. V2 was traveling about 48 kmph (30 mph). The driver of V1 entered the intersection and made a left turn across the path of V2. The driver of V2 attempted to steer left and struck the right side of V1. V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest on the sidewalk at the east driveway entrance facing generally southeast. V2 rotated clockwise and came to final rest in the south driveway facing southeast. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a seventy six (76) year old female, stated she was going home at the time of the crash. Her home was only a few blocks from the crash. She stated her intention was to turn left at the intersection, not where she did. She became confused because of the roadway construction and cones, and made the left turn too soon. She stated she was focused on the turn and did not see oncoming V2. She stated she drives on this roadway several times a week. She was in good health, was wearing prescription glasses and had taken no medications. She was not injured but had been checked by EMS personnel. This driver had slept nine and one half hours the night before in her residence. She stated she started driving at age twenty, did not have any driver education, and was retired.

The driver of V2, a forty four (44) year old female and one passenger, had just left her home about 10 minutes before the crash and were going shopping. She was driving in the number one eastbound lane about 48 kmph (30 mph). She saw V1 approaching and at a distance of about two car lengths when V1 turned left in front of her. She stated she did not think V1 would turn. She attempted to steer left but struck the right side of V1. She said she did not use the brakes until after the impact. The driver of V2 stated she was in good health, did not require prescription glasses, and had taken no medications. She had slept 8 hours the night before.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inattention (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.