The crash occurred in a 4-way intersection of two residential two-lane undivided roadways. Both roadways were bituminous, dry, and level with a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The intersection was controlled by stop signs all around. The crash occurred in the early afternoon of a weekday. The skies were clear with no adverse weather conditions. Traffic flow was very light.

V1, a 2000 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, was driven by a 27-year old female who was traveling alone. V1 was traveling eastbound towards the intersection. V1 failed to stop for its stop sign at the intersection. V2 had already stopped for its stop sign in the southbound lane and had proceeded into the intersection when it was struck by V1 on the front right side. The impact damaged the axle of V2. The driver of V2 slowly pulled over to the right side of the road in the southbound lane when the tire completely came off of the vehicle and rolled under the vehicle where the vehicle rested on top of it. The driver stated that he did not even notice V1 until after he was struck by it. The driver of V1 admitted to running the red light and was upset at the scene because of a conversation with the officer on scene. The driver was not injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2 was a 1998 Ford Ranger pick-up truck that was driven by a 66-year old male who was traveling alone. He stated that he had approached the intersection and stopped at for the stop sign for about 2 seconds when he proceeded. He stated he did not notice V1 until he was struck. He said the truck was practically inoperable when he tried to move it to the side. He said he could hear the sound of the tire axle snapping as he pulled over and then the truck collapsing. The driver was not injured.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason was not coded to V1, but two associated factors were coded to the driver: inadequate surveillance and illegal maneuver.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was this vehicle traveling - crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as inadequate surveillance. No additional associated factors were coded to this vehicle.