This two-vehicle crash occurred at a signal controlled three-legged intersection with pedestrian crosswalks present. The main roadway ran north/south with an intersecting road coming in from the east. The southbound approach was straight with a negative 2.8 percent downhill profile. It had two lanes; a straight lane and a dedicated left turn lane that began 77 meters (252 feet) north of the intersection. The northbound approach had a slight right curve with a positive 1 percent super-elevation. It had two lanes; one straight lane and a dedicated right turn lane. A concrete median divided this stretch of road. The authorized speed limit for both directions of this roadway was 64 kmph (40 mph). Setting was afternoon hours on a weekday. Conditions were daylight and dry with overcast skies. Traffic was moderate due to high school classes ending for the day.

Vehicle 1 was a 1998 Plymouth Voyager minivan with one occupant traveling southbound in lane two. Vehicle 2 was a 1993 Nissan 300ZX two door with two occupants traveling northbound in lane two. V1 made a left turn in front of V2. The front plane of V2 contacted the right plane of V1 (event 1). After impact, V1 deflected to the left, leaving 17.6 meters (58 feet) of right front tire marks in the roadway before coming to final rest facing north near the northeast corner of the intersection. After impact, V2 deflected toward the right and came to final rest approximately 10.5 meters (35 feet) east of the impact area facing east. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 60 year-old unemployed female, reported left shoulder pain but wasn't transported for treatment. She had just left her daughter's house to pick up her grandchild from a nearby school. She was in the left turn lane and said that she "creeped" up beyond the stop line waiting for a break in traffic to make her left turn. Due to heavy oncoming traffic, she waited until the light changed to red before starting her left turn. She never saw V2 coming toward her despite looking before turning. V2 struck her on the right side. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with non-disabling damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "Inadequate surveillance, looked but did not see"- a driver related error. This driver stated that despite looking, she never saw V2 coming toward her. This driver suffers from high cholesterol and acid reflux disease, both which she treats with prescription medication. Rush hour congestion due to high school letting out was the only other associated factor.

The driver of V2 was a 17 year-old male who complained of knee pain, but wasn't transported for treatment. He was a full-time high school student who did not work. He and a friend had just left the high school parking lot. The driver was going to drop his friend off at home, then go to his residence. When he pulled out of the parking lot, he said that he accelerated to 56 kmph (35 mph). As he approached the intersection, he noticed V1 with its left turn blinker on. The light changed from green to yellow, so he proceeded straight ahead, when V1 unexpectedly made a left turn in front of him. He moved his feet from the gas to the brake, but the crash occurred prior to him being able to slow down. His car then deflected right and came to rest in the intersection. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over left lane line." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. This driver was inexperienced. He had only been driving for a year. He had his friend in the front passenger seat and he reported talking to him prior to the crash. This driver suffers from asthma, which he treats with a prescription aerosol inhaler. He reported getting adequate amount of sleep daily, but reported feeling drowsy upon awaking in the morning. He did notice V1 and knew V1's intentions, but still falsely assumed that V1 would yield the right of way and turn. His vehicle's front tires lacked adequate amounts of tread depth. The rush hour traffic was also coded as an associated factor.