This two-vehicle crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a divided, six-lane roadway. There were four southbound lanes and two northbound lanes. Southbound consisted of one right turn lane, two through lanes and one left turn lane. Northbound consisted of two through lanes. This was a straight, level, bituminous, roadway with a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). It was mid-afternoon on a weekday and traffic was moderate. There was road construction on the south side of the intersection. A crew was also working on the traffic control signals for eastbound traffic.

Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Honda CRV with one occupant, was in southbound lane three and was stopped for the red traffic signal. The vehicle was the first in line. When the signal turned green, the driver accelerated when she detected an eastbound vehicle running the red light. The driver braked to a stop to allow the vehicle to pass. Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Hyundai Tiburon with one occupant, was also in southbound lane three approaching the intersection. The driver of V1, detecting V2 had stopped, applied his brakes to avoid hitting V2 and skid for 3.8 meters (12.5 feet). The front of V1 impacted the back of V2. The impact location is south of the stop line for southbound traffic. V1 came to rest facing south slightly past the impact location. V2 was pushed into the middle of the intersection and came to rest facing south. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Neither occupant was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.

A 29 year-old male drove V1, the Hyundai Tiburon. He stated he was looking at an occupant in a vehicle in the left turn lane. The occupant was making "funny gestures". When he looked back into the road, he stated V2 was still stopped. He applied the brakes and slid into the back of V2. He had left work and was heading to a doctor's appointment he had that he was late for. He had the flu and was taking Chlor-Trimeton, an antihistamine, and vitamins. He usually sleeps five hours a night, but because of being sick, he slept eight the night before the crash and felt drowsy when he woke up.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: external distraction. This driver failed to look far enough ahead, was in a hurry for a doctor's appointment and was looking to the left at an occupant in the left turn lane.

A 63 year-old female drove V2, the Honda CRV. She stated she had been stopped at the light before the impact. She noticed an eastbound vehicle with an elderly gentleman had run the red light. She decided to not proceed until he was through, when she was impacted from the back. This was her first day off from work for the week and she had just left home and was heading to the shopping center. She takes Levothyroxine and Monopril on a regular basis. She is both near and far sighted and was wearing her glasses along with clip-on sunglasses.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.