The crash occurred on a bituminous two lane undivided roadway with a posted speed limit of 48 KPH (30 mph). The roadway was curved with a radius of curvature of 71 meters and a superelevation of 1.2%. There was a black on yellow curve warning sign for V1 with a suggested speed of 32 KPH (20 mph). There was a black on yellow curve warning sign for V2 with a suggested speed of 40 KPH (25 mph). It was cloudy, the roadway dry and it was daylight at the time of this early afternoon weekend crash. Traffic flow was normal for that time of day.

V1, a 2006 Yamaha XVS 1100 motorcycle, was traveling south on the roadway negotiating the curve to the right on a -5.7% downgrade. V2, a 2007 Ford Crown Victoria, was traveling on the roadway negotiating the curve to the left. V1 crossed into the northbound lane and struck V2 in the left side with its front. V1 was pushed backwards, fell onto its right side and came to rest in the roadway facing in a southerly direction. V2 continued off the right side of the roadway and struck a w-beam guardrail with its front coming to rest facing in a northerly direction. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the 2006 Yamaha motorcycle, was driven by a 61-year-old male who was wearing a helmet. The 63-year-old female passenger was also wearing a helmet. Both were transported, treated and released at a local hospital for minor injuries. The driver stated that they were on their way home from dinner. He stated that he drove the roadway several times a month, had traveled approximately 20 miles and was doing between 21-30 miles per hour. He stated that he came around the turn and there was gravel all over the roadway. He slid into the oncoming lane, braked, but struck the other vehicle. He considered himself in good health and took medication for high blood pressure.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling over the lane line on left side of travel lane". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was an environmental related factor, "slick roads (low friction due to loose debris, gravel on roadway)". This was chosen because the driver stated there was gravel on the roadway and it was also noted on scene. An additional factor coded to this driver was a pre-existing condition of high blood pressure, a physical factor.

V2, the 2007 Ford Crown Victoria, was driven by a belted 36 year old male who was transported, treated and released for a minor abrasion to his arm. The driver is a police officer and was on a call to a domestic dispute. He had his lights and siren on at the time and stated he was traveling 31-40 mph. He was thinking about the call, if there were weapons involved and what type of domestic call it was. He said that he was rounding the curve and the motorcycle crossed into his lane and hit him. He attempted to avoid the collision by braking and steering right, but was unable to avoid the motorcycle. He considered himself in good health and took medication for depression. He also stated that he had work related stress due to his being required to work rotating shifts.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over the left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. Additional factors coded to this driver were a pre-existing condition of depression, a physical factor, work related stress and strenuous non-work activities.