The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. The southbound roadway was one-way with one lane of travel. The east/west roadway was two-way with one lane of travel in each direction. The roadway was straight, level, and bituminous with a speed limit of 48kmph (30mph). It was dark, but lighted and it was clear with no adverse conditions.

V1, a 2002 Nissan Altima four door with two occupants, was traveling westbound in lane one. V2, a 1997 Lincoln Town car four door with three occupants, was traveling southbound in lane one and attempted to turn left. As V2 made his turn at the intersection, the front of V1 contacted the front of V2. Both vehicles came to a final rest in the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Nissan Altima, was driven by a 28 year-old female who reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. A 23 year-old male occupant also reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. The driver stated to the Police that the driver of V2 disregarded the stop sign striking V1.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, turning into opposite direction". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. V1 had the right of way, and the possible associated factors were coded unknown because no interview was obtained.

V2, the Lincoln Town Car, was driven by a 69 year-old male who reported no injuries. A 29 year-old female occupant reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility, and an 11 year-old female occupant reported no injuries. The driver of V2 was arrested on-scene for unknown reasons.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was “this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection”. The Critical Reason for the Critical event was coded as an “unknown reason for critical event” because no interviews were obtained. V2 did not have the right of way, and the possible associated factors were coded unknown because no interview was obtained.