This crash occurred on a two-lane undivided east/west roadway. In the eastbound direction, the roadway curved to the right and was level. In the westbound direction, the roadway was straight and uphill, before beginning a curve to the left. The roadway was recently repaved with asphalt. Lane delineations were marked by small, double yellow lines that were spaced very far apart. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph) and conditions were clear.

V1 was a 2004 Chevrolet Cavalier 4-door sedan, driven by a 62 year-old female. V2 was a 2000 Mack dump truck that was towing a flatbed trailer. The heavy truck was carrying no cargo at the time of the crash. V1 was traveling westbound and V2 was traveling eastbound. As V2 negotiated the right curve, V1 crossed over the left lane line where it struck V2 head on in V2's lane. V2's driver saw V1 cross into his lane and locked up his brakes, coming to a full stop just prior to impact. V1 collided with V2's left front tire and bounced backwards approximately 7 meters, returning to its original travel lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling over the lane line on left side of travel lane." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was "driver related factor, internal distraction." The driver of V1 stated that she never saw V2 because of the crest in the hill; however, the vehicle had traveled half way into the adjacent lane. The driver could not explain how this had happened, other than stating that there were very few lane markings. A review of medical records revealed that the driver of V1 told medical personnel that she may have been looking down, brushing something off her shirt when she drifted into the opposing lane. The driver travels this road daily and was on her way to pick up her mother when the crash occurred. Associated factors coded to this driver include the physical conditions of diabetes and hypertension, along with the use of prescription medications. A roadway-related factor was also coded due to the lack of clear lane delineation.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over left lane line." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factor coded was the roadway's lack of clear lane delineation.