This crash occurred on a weekday morning at midweek. The weather was cloudy and it had snowed earlier in the day. The crash occurred on a 4-lane undivided east/west asphalt roadway. Lane one of the eastbound lanes was snow covered. The roadway was straight with a downhill slope of 3 percent. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph).

Vehicle 1, a 1998 Chevrolet Cavalier 2-door coupe, was traveling eastbound in the second lane of travel at a high rate of speed. The driver lost control of the vehicle, rotated clockwise into lane #1 then off the right side of the roadway. V1 slid with its back end leading about 23 meters before striking a tree with the right rear of the vehicle. At final rest, the driver exited the vehicle stating he was not injured. His passenger was injured in the crash. After the police arrived on scene they put the driver in their cruiser and the driver blacked out and was transported to a local trauma facility. The vehicle was towed from the scene of the crash due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

An 18-year-old male drove V1. He reported being in good health and taking no medications. He stated he does not wear corrective lenses. This driver stated that his passenger wanted to go to another friend's home and the passenger had taken too many prescribed drugs so he was driving at the time of the crash. He stated he has never taken driver's training and has always had someone else drive him to where he needs to go. The driver stated there was a vehicle traveling next to him in lane #1 that started to change lanes because of the snow in lane #1. He claimed that when the other vehicle tried to merge he swerved and then lost control, rotating clockwise into lane #1 then off the right side of the roadway into a tree. The driver stated that he did not think he was injured in the crash and got out of the vehicle to help his passenger. He stated that after the officers arrived on scene he was placed in the back seat of the police vehicle where he then blacked out.

The witness stated he had just gotten coffee at the gas station at the last intersection and as he attempted to cross the street he was almost struck by V1 as it went by at a high rate of speed. He stated the V1 traveled in lane #2 but then lost control, rotated, then slid off the roadway into the tree on the south side of the roadway. When asked if there was a non-contact vehicle in lane #1, the witness stated there was no vehicle other than V1 from traffic light to traffic light. The witness stated that V1 went by so fast he could not tell if there was a cell phone being used at the time.

The Critical Pre-crash Event coded to V1 was this vehicle control loss due to traveling too fast for conditions. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as traveling too fast for conditions, as lane one of the roadway was snow covered at the pre-crash area. Associated factors coded to the driver include conversation with the passenger, driving at a high rate of speed (he told medical personnel that he was going 80-90 mph), driver inexperience, unfamiliarity with the roadway and the vehicle (first time driving it), and the slick roadway. Also, the medical report indicated that the driver tested positive for use of THC.