This two-vehicle crash occurred on a divided five-lane state highway. There were three lanes for southbound traffic, two through lanes and one right turn lane. This was a straight, level, bituminous, roadway with a posted speed of 64 kmph (40 mph). It was morning, rush hour traffic, which was stopped for a train. Just prior to the crash location was a warning sign for the upcoming railroad crossing; there was also active wig wags further up the roadway where the train was crossing.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Ford Taurus four-door sedan with one occupant was in lane three going straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 GMC Envoy XL four-door SUV with one occupant was in lane three decelerating behind forward stopped traffic. The driver of V1 applied the brakes, but not in time before it impacted the back of V2 with its front. V1 came to rest on its wheels facing southbound at impact. V2 came to rest on its wheels facing southbound at impact. V1 was towed from the scene with moderate frontal damage. V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

V1, the Ford Taurus, was driven by a 60 year-old female who reported no injuries. She stated she had left home 15 minutes before the crash and was driving to a doctor's appointment. She stated she was rested and had no concerns or distraction. She wears glasses to read only and was not wearing them at the time. She takes the medications Estrace and Celebrex on a regular basis and is in good health.

V2, the GMC Envoy, was driven by a 48 year-old female school teacher who also reported no injuries. She stated she had left home earlier to take her daughter to school and realized she had forgotten something she needed for work. She had driven back home and was driving back to school (work) by a different route because she thought it was quicker. She stated she was not in a hurry, because she called work and told them she was going to be late. She was well rested and had no concerns or distractions. She has a thyroid condition and takes the medications: Thyroid medication not specified, Singulair and Advair on a regular basis. She is near-sighted and was wearing her prescription sunglasses. She was decelerating in her travel lane due to the wigwags & congested forward traffic and wanted to change lanes to the right just prior to the impact.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the critical event was for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: following too close to respond to unexpected actions. The driver did not realize traffic forward of V2 had stopped. An associative factor was that the wigwags up ahead were down for a train crossing causing the traffic congestion. The high and wide profile of V2 also may have obstructed the driver's view of the forward traffic slowing and stopping, making V2's deceleration somewhat unexpected. Data obtained from V2 indicate it was in the process of decelerating but not fully stopped before impact occurred. The driver of V1 did not notice V2 until about two seconds before impact, not leaving enough time to react to the situation while traveling the posted speed limit. The driver of V1 was unaware of the sign on the right side of the road warning of the upcoming train crossing, view of it may have been blocked by traffic in the number one travel lane.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.