This four-vehicle crash occurred on a weekend during evening hours on a divided expressway near an entrance ramp. The speed limit for the highway is 89 kmph (55 mph). The eastbound roadway consists of three uphill, straight lanes. The road surface was dry and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash. The one-lane entrance ramp curves to the right and becomes lane one of the eastbound lanes.

Vehicle one (V1), a Ford Mustang, was traveling east in the second lane. Vehicle two (V2,) a 1993 Toyota Tercel, was entering the highway from the entrance ramp and then changing into lane two. Vehicle three (V3), a 2002 Cadillac Escalade, was traveling east in lane three. Vehicle four (V4) was traveling east in lane one. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

V1 was traveling at a high rate of speed in lane two approaching V2 from behind. V1 attempted to get around V2 by entering lane one, passing V2 on the right and re-entering lane two. The front of V1 struck the right side of V2. V2 moved into lane three and the front struck the right side of V3. V2 continued to move to the left, the front struck a guardrail. V2 continued moving along the guardrail until it came to final rest at the guardrail. V3 continued to drive ahead of V2 until it was safe to stop. V1 continued to drive partially in lane two and lane one after the first impact. The front of V1 then struck the left side of V4. V1 continued to drive and left the scene. V2 was towed from the scene.

The driver of V1 was not identified.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related error: too fast to respond to unexpected actions of others (too fast for slower traffic entering vehicle's lane of travel). This vehicle tried to change lanes and avoid a collision with a slower vehicle in front of it. V1 was initially driving too fast (based on witness and other drivers' descriptions) and had to re-enter lane two to avoid a rear end collision with V4.

A 45-year old male was the driver of V2. He was heading home from the main post office. He stated he entered the highway and moved immediately over into lane two. The driver saw V1 in his rearview mirror. He said he knew he was about to be hit by V1 and wanted to move over into lane three but was struck on the right side by V1.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment - from adjacent lane (same direction) - over right lane line. No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle.

A 24 year-old male drove V3. He and the passenger were on their way to a restaurant/sports bar to watch a game on TV. He rarely drives the route and is familiar with the vehicle. The vehicle was not involved in the first harmful event. No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle.