This crash occurred at night on the southbound lanes of the interstate. The roadway has a right hand sweeping curve. The roadway was level. The radius of curve was 225meters with a super elevation of .03%. The roadway was dry it was dark but lighted. The speed was posted at 105kmph (65mph). There were 3-lanes of travel with a positive barrier wall in the center median.

As the 1995 Pontiac Bonneville traveled south bound in lane two the vehicle traveled across lane three onto the center median to contact the center wall. Then the vehicle rotated clockwise and traveled back across all the lanes of travel to contact the guard rail on the west side of the interstate rolling 2 quarter turns to come to final rest on the vehicles roof. The driver was found to be unconscious and had incapacitating injuries. The female passenger received incapacitating injuries. The baby in rear seat was restrained and had no injuries. All occupants were transported to a local trauma unit. The vehicle was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

A 27 year-old male that drove the vehicle stated he is in fair condition. He stated that he is taking medication for previous injuries and is recovering from surgery he had this past summer. He stated he does not wear corrective lenses at this time. He stated that he and his girlfriend had left there new home and were on their way back to the old home they were moving from. He stated they had picked up dinner and were eating and talking of the cake that was at there home they could eat for desert. The driver also stated that he had just replaced the front suspension in his car but it did not fix the vibration. As they traveled on the roadway the vehicle was vibrating, it started to drift across lane three to the center median. He does not remember contacting the center wall. His vehicle rotated clockwise and crossed all lanes of travel to contact the guardrail on the west side of the roadway. He then stated his vehicle rolled onto the roof. He was knocked unconscious and does not remember anything after that.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was coded for vehicle 1 “this vehicle control loss due to traveling too fast for conditions”. The Critical Reason for the critical Event was coded driver related factor recognition error, “internal distraction”. The associated factors to this driver was traveling to fast for condition and that the driver was conversing with passenger while eating and the vehicle started to have suspension problems at the time of the crash.

Witness #1 stated that as she traveled north on the interstate she noticed the southbound vehicle rotating clockwise and crossing back across the roadway to contact a guardrail and rolling over. She stated as she decelerated and pulled off the side of the roadway she contacted 911 and ran to help with the driver and occupants of the vehicle.

Witness #2 stated as he traveled north on the interstate he noticed the driver ahead of him braking which got his attention he then noticed the lights of the vehicle on the south bound lanes rotating and traveling to contact the guardrail on the west side of the roadway. He stated that seeing the vehicle then roll over he exited the interstate and reentered on the southbound side to help block the roadway with his truck so no one else would hit the overturn vehicle.