The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a high occupancy, high volume, and high-speed interstate highway. There were four northbound lanes with both right and left side paved emergency shoulders. There were concrete wall barriers separating the northbound lanes from the southbound traffic. The road widths were a standard 3.7 meters and the emergency-paved shoulders were 3.5 meters. The road was straight and level. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekday afternoon during rush hour. The posted speed limit was 105 KMPH (65 MPH).

V1 was a 1998 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan that was driven by a 20-year-old female. The driver was heading northbound in lane three. V1 was following a 2006 Kia Spectra hatchback. The driver of V1 stated that she was on her way home from school and was driving along when the car in front of her just suddenly braked. She stated that she tried to change lanes to the right but saw another vehicle in that lane and just hit the back of V1. V1's airbag did not deploy as it had previously been in a crash but had never been replaced. The driver of V1 was not injured but she was cited for the crash. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

V2, the 2006 Kia Spectra, was driven by a 39-year-old male who was on his way home from work. He stated that he was in lane three traveling the speed limit when the traffic slowed suddenly and he hit his brakes to slow his vehicle down and he was then hit from behind. He stated that he was not fully stopped when he was struck, and after impact, his car spun counterclockwise until he hit the left concrete barrier wall with the right rear of his vehicle. He came to final rest on the shoulder facing on-coming traffic. The driver of V2 was not injured. V1 had front-end damage and was towed due to damages. V2 had moderate rear damage and was also towed due to damages.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was other vehicle in lane, traveling in the same direction while decelerating. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was a driver error, following too closely to respond to unexpected actions of others. An associated factor coded to this driver was the rush hour traffic.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle in lane, traveling in the same direction at a higher rate of speed. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. One associated factor coded to this driver was the rush hour traffic.