The crash occurred on a two-way, two-lane, straight, level, bituminous road with a posted speed limit of 72 kmh (45mph). Conditions at the time of the weekday, afternoon crash were daylight, clear, and dry.

V1, a 1999 Chevrolet Malibu LS 4 door sedan driven by a 49 year-old male on his way home from work was eastbound on the road. The driver stated that he was traveling 40-45 mph, 3-4 car lengths behind a pick-up truck (v2). The driver stated that he must have glanced down for a second and when he looked back up v2 had slowed down to turn right into a driveway. The driver of v1 braked (full ABS application), but the front of v1 struck the back of v2 in lane one. V1 came to a stop just ahead in the roadway still facing east. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver denied injuries at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 2005 Ford F350 XL Super Duty FX4 pick-up truck was driven by a 20 year-old male on his way from a work site to his uncle's home to return the work vehicle. The driver stated that he had slowed from 40-45 mph to 5 mph and put his right turn signal on to turn into the private driveway. He noticed in his rear view mirror that v1 was not going to stop in time, but could not avoid the crash. V2 was pushed clockwise into the driveway and came to rest facing west. V2 was drivable following the crash. The fully restrained driver denied injuries at the scene.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to the driver of v1 was 'other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction while decelerating.' The Critical Reason coded to this driver was a 'driver related factor-recognition error-internal distraction.' An Associated factor was coded for this driver for possible side effects of his prescribed medication for high blood pressure.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to the driver of v2 was 'other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed.' The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle.