This crash occurred on a two lane undivided roadway with a radius of curvature of 281 meters. The super-elevation was 3.4%. There was a "T" type intersection controlled by a stop sign. The weather was clear and the roadway was dry. This crash occurred on a weekday morning.

Vehicle #1, a 1996 Jeep Cherokee, was traveling in a westerly direction came to the stop sign and proceeded to make a left turn onto the two lane roadway. It is unknown if this vehicle stopped at the stop sign. Vehicle #2 was traveling in a northerly direction on the two-lane roadway negotiating a curve to the right. Vehicle #2 impacted with the left side of Vehicle #1 with its front left. Vehicle #2 proceeded off roadway to the right sideswiping a guardrail with its right side. Vehicle #2 continued on across both lanes coming to final rest, off the roadway on the left side, after impacting with a large stump with its front. Vehicle #1 spun around 180 degrees counter clock wise, then rolled over ¼ turn onto its left side. Vehicle #1 came to final rest facing in an easterly direction on the west side of the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle #1 was driven by a belted 78-year-old male who was transported to an area hospital, treated and released. He was not available for an interview, however, his granddaughter gave an interview at the scene. The granddaughter stated that the driver had had a stroke 2 months prior and was not well. It was not known if the driver was ill at the time of the crash. The granddaughter stated that the driver almost hit his mailbox on the way out of the driveway, but this was not unusual. It should be noted here; this driver is taking blood thinner medication for a heart related problems and Lipitor for high cholesterol.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was coded as: This Vehicle Traveling, Turning Left at Intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was coded as: Driver Related Factor. Inadequate Surveillance.(failed to look, looked but did not see).

Vehicle #2 was driven by a belted 44-year-old female who was transported to an area hospital, treated and released. This driver stated she had no chance to avoid Vehicle #1 coming from the side road. She stated she braked, steered right, impacted with Vehicle #1 and then doesn't remember anymore than that of the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #2 was coded as: Other Vehicle Encroachment, From Crossing Street, turning into opposite direction. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle.

Police did not consider alcohol or illegal drugs to be a factor in this crash and ordered no tests for either driver.