The crash occurred on an overpass in lane four of a four-lane eastbound interstate, adjacent to an on-ramp. The road had four lanes in each direction, divided by a cement barrier. The posted speed was 89 kmph (55 mph). This was a bituminous, dry roadway and the sky was cloudy. It was mid-afternoon on a weekday. The traffic flow was moderate on this well-traveled roadway. Construction of an overpass was in progress on the left shoulder adjacent to lane four in the eastbound direction on the crest of the overpass. The eastbound direction was a right curving roadway prior to the crash.

V1, a 2001 Ford Taurus four-door sedan, was driven by a 44-year old female traveling with her 17-year old son. She had traveled 200 miles from the beach after a weekend vacation with friends. She stated that she was traveling east in lane four at approximately 97 kmph (60 mph) when V2 pulled into lane four from lane three. Prior to the crash the driver saw V2 travel from the right shoulder crossing over the left lanes. She attempted unsuccessfully to avoid V2 by braking and steering left, but struck the left rear portion of V2 with the right front of V1. Following this impact, the left rear side of V1 struck the cement barrier. Both occupants of V1 were transported due to injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 2004 Mack cement truck, was driven by a 65-year old male who was not injured. The driver stated that he had been parked on the right shoulder when he was signaled by one of the crew from the left shoulder to bring cement. He looked over his left shoulder and used his rear-view mirrors to track on-coming traffic, advancing when the path was clear. He merged across three left lanes and into lane four in the eastbound direction when V1 struck the left rear portion of V2 with the right front portion of V1. The driver stated that he tracked the location of V1 before he started from the right shoulder and said that V1 was over half a mile west. The driver of V2 was cited for failure to give full time and attention and failing to yield the right of way.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was "Other motor vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane (same direction) - over the right lane line." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was not coded to this vehicle.

Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include medication for Type II diabetes and asthma, conversation with the passenger, a false assumption in that she assumed V2 would wait for her to pass before making another lane change, and the construction work zone.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was "This vehicle traveling over the lane line on the left side of travel lane." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was "Decision error, misjudgment of gap or other's speed." Associated factors for driver of V2 include medication for water retention, focused attention towards left shoulder, inadequate surveillance, and the construction work zone.