The crash occurred on a four-lane roadway in lane two heading southbound. The roadway was straight and level. There were 2 lanes running southbound and two lanes running northbound. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekday evening just before dusk. The posted speed was 56KPH (35 MPH). It was daylight and the traffic flow was normal.

V1 was a 2001 Corvette that was traveling in lane two heading southbound. The driver was traveling at a fast rate of speed and could not stop in time without hitting the back of V2, a 1996 Honda Civic that was stopped in lane two. The driver of V2 and his wife were transported to a local hospital with injuries. The driver of V1 was given a sobriety test on scene, he had a blood alcohol of .087 and was charged with a DUI. V2 was towed due to damages and the driver of V1 was arrested and cited for the crash. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 58-year-old male who was on his way home. The driver denied speeding and stated that in fact V2 just slammed on his brakes too quickly and he was forced to lock his brakes. In reality he was unable to avoid hitting the back of V2 due to his speed. This was not true as he was intoxicated and could barley stand up. The driver was not injured and was arrested on scene. His vehicle was towed but, not due to damages.

V2 was driven by a 22-year-old male who had just picked up his wife and they had gotten take out food. The driver stated that he was traveling southbound in lane two. He was stopped in lane two waiting to make a left turn into a convenient store. The driver stated he heard a loud screech then felt the impact from behind. He stated that his wife was eating the Chinese food and it spilled all over the front passenger seat (see pictures). The driver stated that the driver of V1 was speeding as he left skid marks and then still hit V2 very hard. The driver of V2 stated that he got out of the vehicle and the driver of V1 smelled of alcohol and had slurred speech. The driver and his wife were transported to a local hospital with neck and back injuries. V2 was towed due to damages.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane stopped". The Critical Reason was "too fast to respond to the unexpected actions of others". Alcohol was an associative factor as the driver had slurred speech, smelled of alcohol, and was unstable on his feet. The driver was arrested on scene charged with a DUI and cited for causing the crash. V1 was towed and there are no other associative factors related to driver.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed". The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associative factors related to the driver. V2 was towed due to damages. Both the driver of V2 and his wife were transported due to injury. He was not thought to have contributed to the crash.