This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-leg intersection with no controls for north and southbound traffic. On the south side of the intersection, traffic lanes consist of one lane in each direction. This roadway is straight, bituminous and a slight downhill grade with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with light early afternoon traffic.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1981 Ford F150 with one occupant, was northbound in lane one going straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Plymouth Breeze with one occupant, was northbound in lane one in front of V1 stopped to turn left. The driver of V1, to avoid impact, applied his brakes and slid 34.4 meters (113 feet) before the front of V1 struck the back of V2. V1 came to rest on its wheels facing northbound in lane one near the impact. V2 was pushed forward approximately 6.1 meters (20 feet) and came to rest on its wheels facing northbound in lane one. The front bumper was pulled off the tire and V1 was driven from the scene. V2 was towed from the scene due to moderate back damage. The driver of V2 was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1 and 80 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-two year-old male was driving from picking up a stove from a store and driving home. He was well rested and drives this roadway every other day. He stated he has driven this vehicle four to five times, since he bought it four to five weeks ago. He also claimed the brakes failed. He is bi-polar and has sleep apnea with no current treatment and takes Lithium, Seroquel and an unknown name of a high blood pressure medicine. He had employment, family, personal relationship and himself on his mind at the time. His work requires him to work long hours and unrealistic schedules. He usually sleeps two to three hours a night, but the night before the crash; he got a little over seven hours of sleep. He stated he usually wakes up feeling like someone beat him up.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane; other vehicle stopped. Thee critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others (specified as: did not realize V2 was stooped in front of him in travel lane). This driver stated he did not see V2 until 9-12 meters (30-40 feet) prior to impact; however the pre-impact skid mark from V1 was 56 meters (184 feet) in length indicating the driver was traveling too fast to avoid V2 and recognized V2 sooner than he had thought.. Inattention, emotional issues and inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see) were associative factors.

The driver of V2, eighteen year-old female was driving from a grocery store back to the house she works at, running an errand for her employer. She is a Nanny and knew the baby woke up around 1400 hours and needed to be back for that. She stated she stopped and waited for on-coming traffic to clear so she could turn left. After she stopped, she stated she looked into her rear-view mirror and saw V1 behind her, about thirty seconds away. She drives this roadway daily and is very familiar with the vehicle. She was well rested, is in good health and takes a Multi-vitamin and Mircette.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.