Case 2007-101

The crash occurred in the intersection of two undivided two-lane roadways. There was one lane in each direction and there were no lane markings. There was a stop sign on each side of the north/southbound roadway. Both roads were dry, straight, asphalt with posted speed limits of 48kph/30mph. The north/southbound road had a 4% slope up to the north, while the east/west road had a 4% slope up to the east. The crash occurred early on a weekday morning under sunny skies and with light traffic flow. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, a 1995 Ford Explorer four-door SUV with one occupant was northbound in lane one. V2, a Chrysler Voyager minivan with two occupants was eastbound in lane one. V1 started to pass through the intersection while V2 was doing the same thing. V1 braked without lockup in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid impact. The front of V1 struck the right rear of V2 causing it to yaw and rotate in a clockwise direction as it tripped over longitudinally onto its left side. V1 came to rest facing north about 1.5m north of the point of impact. V2 came to rest facing south about 9m east of impact. V2 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was this vehicle crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was driver related, inadequate surveillance, failure to look, looked but did not see. If the driver, in fact looked at all, she should have, but did not see V2. The researcher's scene photos indicate that her view to the left was not obstructed by a tree, as she claimed. An associated factor coded due to presence was the driver's physical health - her asthma and the mediations she was taking. Other associated factors were assigned for driver recognition, inattention due to her concerns over family problems and inadequate surveillance for failure to look to the side; and for driver behavior - emotional due to the driver's stress about her job.

V1, the Ford Explorer. was driven by a 32-year old female who was not injured. The driver reported that she had just left work on her way to pickup her child and that she was concerned about ongoing family problems. She advised that she stopped 5-10 seconds at the northbound stop sign and looked both directions and saw no one coming. She added that a tree on the southwest corner blocked her view to her left. The driver said that after stopping she started to cross through the intersection and about a second before impact she noticed V2 traveling across her path and that although she applied her brakes she could not avoid striking V2.

V2, the Chrysler Voyager, was driven by a 79-year old male. Both he and his 73-year old female right front seat passenger were coded for possible injuries but were not transported to a hospital. The driver reported that he had just left church on his was home and that he was traveling at the speed limit. He said that as he approached the intersection, about two seconds before impact, he noticed V1 did not stop at the stop sign and was approaching his path. The driver said he was unable to take any evasive action before being struck by V1.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle. Coded as an associated factor due to presence was the driver's physical health. He had previously had a stroke, had high blood pressure and was taking several medications. Another factor was assigned for driver behavior, recognition, inadequate surveillance, failure to look far enough ahead.