The crash occurred at the T-intersection of a north/south primary arterial road and a side street that intersected from the east. The arterial had 5 lanes with 2 lanes each direction and the center was a left turn only lane for both directions. The arterial was straight with a negative grade (northbound approach to intersection) of 5.6% and the intersection also had a negative grade of 3.3% if northbound. The side street had three lanes, a right/north turn lane (1), a left/south turn lane (2), and an eastbound lane (3). It was straight with a negative grade measuring 6.8% on the westbound approach to the intersection with no physical dividers. The intersection was controlled by traffic signals on colors with pedestrian signals (not involved). The crash occurred in the early afternoon on a weekend under daylight and dry conditions. The posted speed limit was 72kph/45mph.

V1 was a 1998 Hyundai Elantra traveling north on the arterial in lane 2 when it passed through a red light at the intersection and struck V2 on its left side with its (V1's) front. V2 was a 1992 Honda Prelude that was turning left/south onto the arterial from lane two of the side street with a solid green light/signal. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a twenty-two-year-old belted male who was uninjured in the crash along with his thirty-seven-year-old male passenger. They were on their way to work. The driver was taken into police custody on scene. The passenger gave a partial interview on scene but stopped the interview when he saw his friend being arrested. Neither occupant was fluent in English.

The critical precrash event for V1 was this vehicle traveling, passing through an intersection. The critical reason was coded as inadequate surveillance, failed to look far enough ahead. The driver and passenger were also talking to each other at the time of the crash. The driver did fail to stop for red light. There was also a tire deficiency coded as he was driving on a spare at admittedly over the speed limit. This driver was coded as inexperienced because of the fact that he was not a licensed driver (never licensed).

V2 was driven by a twenty-one-year-old belted male who was transported with his nineteen-year-old female passenger (also restrained) to a local hospital with possible injuries. He was on his way to get gas at the time of the crash.

The critical precrash event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from crossing-street, across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. An external distraction of this driver looking to his right and checking approaching traffic was attributed here from the drivers interview. A sight restriction was also coded, as there was an SUV that stopped in the right northbound lane blocking V2's view of the left northbound lane.