This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. Both roadways are one-way and straight. The eastbound roadway has an uphill grade and consists of four lanes. The speed limit for this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). The northbound roadway has a downhill grade and consists of two lanes. The speed limit for this roadway is 40 kmph (25 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions. Traffic was congested at the time of this crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Chevrolet Malibu, was eastbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Chrysler Cirrus, was northbound in lane one. In the intersection, the front of V1 struck the left side of V2. The vehicles rotated and the right side of V1 struck the left side of V2. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-four-year-old female, was on her way home from work. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. She experiences some stress at work due to an adversarial relationship with co-workers. This driver stated that she noticed that the traffic signal was green when she was about one-half block away from the intersection. She was following the vehicles in front of her and did not realize that the light turned red until she looked up just prior to the crash. She further stated that she did not see V2 until five seconds before the crash.

The driver of V2, an eighty-six-year-old female, was on her way from her home to a store. She was well rested, in good health and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. She takes the medications Detrol, Lipitor and vitamins. This driver stated that she was looking straight ahead and did not see V1 prior to the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: external distraction, for looking only at the vehicle in front of her and not paying attention to the traffic controls. This driver's inadequate surveillance was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle. This driver's inadequate surveillance was an associated factor in this crash.