This two-vehicle crash occurred in the southbound lanes at a T-intersection with a residential 2-lane roadway. The main roadway ran north/south and consisted of two lanes in each direction. The bituminous roadway featured a gentle curve left (in the southbound direction) and an uphill slope with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The crash occurred during weekday morning rush hour and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions.

V1 was a 1995 Oldsmobile Aurora four-door sedan with one occupant traveling southbound in lane two. V2 was a 2007 Chevrolet G1500 large cargo van with two occupants traveling southbound in lane two in front of V1. The husband of V1 (NCV) was traveling in between V1 and V2. The driver of the NCV noticed V2 stopped in lane two with its left turn signal on, so he quickly changed lanes to the right. The driver of V1 was following the NCV, so when the NCV changed lanes to the right, V1 was focused on changing lanes to the right also and not looking forward. As V1 was about to change lanes to the right, the front plane contacted the back plane of V2. V1 continued forward for 19.0 meters (62 feet) and came to rest straddling the double-yellow line. V2 was pushed forward 21.0 meters (69 feet) coming to rest in northbound lane two facing south. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 25 year-old female who was not injured in the crash. On this morning she had left her home and was following her husband, who was in a separate car in front of her, to meet with the builder who was building them a new house up the road from the crash scene. She reported being on the road driving for 20 minutes and traveling 10 miles. She was heading to work after the meeting was over. She reported that she and her husband were both in the left lane traveling at 64 kmph (40 mph). Her husband switched lanes to the right, so she looked right at her side view mirror to make sure it was clear to get over. When she looked straight again, all she saw was red brake lights. She thought she hit the brakes and possibly steered right, but was very upset and had trouble recalling events. She put the brake pedal to the floor but couldn't recall if ABS activated or not. She said that prior to her returning her eyes forward, she never saw V2. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "Other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was an exterior distraction, a driver error. Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include failure to look ahead and recognize the danger in front of her, the use of diabetes medication, and rush hour congestion.

The driver of V2 was a 23 year-old male who suffered minor injuries and refused transport by EMS. He was in his brand new work van with a co-worker. They had left their office building about 25 miles away and were on their way to a job site. He came to stop in lane two with his left turn signal on. He reported moderate traffic in the opposite direction causing him to be stopped 15 seconds and never proceeding with his turn. He says the radio was on and he couldn't recall if he was chatting with his co-worker or not. He was looking straight ahead when all of a sudden he was hit in the rear by V1. He never saw V1 nor did he hear tires screeching prior to impact. He said the impact pushed him across into the oncoming lanes and come to final rest. There were no cars in that travel lane at the time. He reported the 500 lbs of cargo in the rear of the van shifted forward and struck him in the back of the head during impact. The cargo van did not have a protective cage in it despite his complaints to his employer. He also reported cargo shifting off the dashboard during impact and after impact. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling back damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling the same direction with a higher speed." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. This vehicle did experience a cargo shift during impact. The driver claimed inadequate securement was the reason for the shift and stated that the lack of a cage made him uncomfortable in the van. The driver likely was talking business to his passenger as well as listening to the radio prior to impact. He reported work stress in the form of an adversarial relationship with his manager. He also claimed that he was "sick of his job." Rush hour congestion was also coded as a traffic flow interruption for this driver.