This two-vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane residential roadway, with no controls. Both roadways are undivided with two straight roads coming into a curve, with eastbound curving to the left and westbound curving to the right. Both roadways are undivided with one lane in each direction. Eastbound is bituminous and dry with a downhill grade. Westbound is bituminous and dry with an uphill grade. The posted speed limit is 40 kmph (25 mph) for both directions of travel. This crash occurred in the early morning with light traffic.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Chrysler Sebring convertible with one occupant, was eastbound just entering the left curve. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Jeep Wrangler, with one occupant, was westbound traveling the right curve. There were vehicles parked on each side of the road in implied parking lanes. There was a non-contact vehicle stopped in the eastbound travel lane that was double-parked picking up passengers. The driver of V1 swerved to the left to pass the non-contact vehicle and impacted with its front to V2's front. V1 rotated slightly counterclockwise and was pushed slightly backwards and came to rest on its wheels facing northeast in the westbound lane. V2 rotated slightly counterclockwise and was pushed slightly backwards and came to rest on its wheels facing southwest between the westbound lane and the implied parking lane. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a sixty-five year-old female, was transported to a trauma center before the researcher was able to get to the scene. While the researcher was visiting her at the hospital, the driver's co-workers advised her not to talk. There is a statement the driver made to hospital staff in the medical record - the driver stated that she was pulling out of her driveway and did not see the other vehicle due to the sun in her eyes. The on-scene location and vehicle dynamics suggest that she was already on the roadway for one block from her residence and was going straight when she encountered a non-contact vehicle that was double parked in her travel lane picking-up passengers. The driver attempted to drive around the non-contact vehicle into the oncoming travel lane and then that is when V1 and V2 impacted with each other. The driver was traveling eastbound into the newly risen sun, so her account of not seeing V2 due to sunglare has credibility. The driver of V2 also stated that she thought the sun had something to do with the actions of the driver of V1 pulling into her travel lane. It is likely that the non-contact vehicle was also an exterior distraction and was not a sight line restriction for not observing V2 prior to impact. According to the medical records the driver has a past history of Bipolar disorder and hypothyroidism, and takes the medications Lamictal and Synthroid.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the left side of the travel lane. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as an environment related factor: glare. Inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see) was considered an associative factor.

The driver of V2, a thirty-two year-old male, had just left home to commute to work. He was well rested, takes no medication, drives this roadway daily and is very familiar with the vehicle. He stated he saw the non-contact vehicle on the passenger side of V1 and thought the driver of V1 probably did not see him because of the sun.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.