This two-vehicle crash occurred on a straight, level, undivided roadway. This roadway consists of two lanes in each direction. The speed limit for this roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions. The roadway was covered in slush at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Pontiac G6, was southbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Nissan Sentra, was northbound in lane two. Two non-contact vehicles (NCV) were northbound in lane two in front of V2. The leading NCV traveled into the southbound lanes. The driver of V1 steered left to avoid this vehicle and traveled into the northbound lanes. The driver of the second NCV saw V1 in his lane and move to the left into the southbound lanes. The front of V1 then struck the front of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a fifty-six-year-old male, was traveling from his home to his friend's house. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route weekly. The driver stated that he was watching the non-contact vehicle and did not see V2 until just before the crash. He applied his brakes in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The driver of V2, a twenty-six-year-old female, was on the way home from shopping. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she did not see V1 until just before the crash due to the NCVs. She applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; over the lane line on left side of travel lane." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; incorrect evasive action."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."

The slush-covered roadway and the sightline restriction caused by the NCVs were associated factors in this crash.