This crash occurred in the evening of a weekday in the southbound lanes of a four-lane undivided urban roadway. The north/south roadway consisted of two lanes in each direction with a speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). The bituminous roadway was straight and level but littered with potholes. The roadway was dark but lighted, and it was raining which caused the roadway to be wet at the time of the crash.

V1, a 2001 Ford Excursion SUV with one occupant, was southbound in lane two. V2, a 2003 International M/H truck with two occupants was stopped at an intersection ahead of V1. V2 was preparing to make a left turn at the intersection when it was impacted in the back by the front of V1. Both vehicles came to a final rest in the intersection near the point of impact. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was an unknown male who was believed to be uninjured in the crash. The driver fled the scene on foot after the crash, without exchanging any information. No further information could be obtained regarding the driver.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The Critical Reason for the Critical event was coded as an unknown driver error. The only known associated factors that could be coded to V1 were the rain and wet roads as well as the pot holes the littered the roadway.

The driver of V2, a 56-year-old male, reported no injuries. A 19-year-old male occupant sustained unknown injuries and was transported to a medical facility. The driver advised that he was returning to his base from a delivery and preparing to make a left turn at the intersection when he was impacted by V1. He stated that the driver of V1 was intoxicated and left the crash scene.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to the driver include inattention (he was thinking about how he was going to enjoy his weekend) as well as the rain, wet roads, and generally poor condition of the roadway.