This crash occurred in the early morning hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions. The roadway is undivided and consists of one lane in each direction. In the eastbound direction, the roadway curves to the right and has a downhill grade. In the westbound direction, the roadway curves to the left and has an uphill grade. There are downhill embankments and trees off both sides of this roadway. The speed limit for this roadway is 97 kmph (60 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1987 Jeep Cherokee, was eastbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2008 Ford Escape, was westbound in lane one. V1 traveled off the left side of the roadway and the front struck some shrubs and a tree. V1 continued in the eastbound direction and then returned to the roadway. The front of V1 struck the front of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, an eighteen-year-old male, was on his way to work from his home. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that he does not remember the crash. The police report indicated suspected drug and alcohol use but medical records indicate negative results for both drug and alcohol tests.

The driver of V2, a sixty-one-year-old female, had left her home five minutes prior to the crash and was on her way to a dog show in another town. She was well rested and familiar with her vehicle although she had owned it for only a month prior to the crash. This driver has high blood pressure, high cholesterol, arthritis and ulcers. She takes the medications Atenolol, Cozaar, aspirin, calcium, Gaviscon, Hydrochlorothiazide, vitamins, Indomethacin, Carafate, Methylprednisolone and Vytorin. This driver stated that she saw V1 travel off the roadway but did not see it again until it returned to the road and she did not have time to attempt any avoidance maneuvers.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: unknown critical non-performance. This coding was selected based on the shallow angle roadway departure and the distance traveled off the roadway prior to impact. There were no indications of any avoidance actions or any attempt to steer beck towards the roadway.

V2 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.