The single vehicle, weekday, late morning crash occurred off the right side of the 2 eastbound lanes of a straight, level, bituminous, 4-lane interstate with a median and a positive barrier separating the eastbound lanes from the westbound traffic. At the time of the crash, it was daylight, cloudy and the roadway was dry. The posted speed limit was 113 kmh (70mph).

V1, a 2007 GMC pickup truck towing an empty 4ft by 8ft utility trailer occupied by a 76 year-old male driver and a 56 year-old male passenger, were eastbound in lane 1 of the roadway described above. V1 drifted left into lane 2 then onto the inside shoulder then back across both eastbound lanes before exiting the roadway to the right. V1 struck a cement wall/bridge railing with it's front, rotated counterclockwise, tripped and rolled left 6/4 turns coming to rest upside down on the right shoulder facing west. The trailer separated from v1 as it tripped. The trailer rotated clockwise and came to rest upright in the center median facing north. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver stated that he and a nephew were returning from his son's house in another state where he had delivered some furniture the day before. He had been driving for about 5 hours. He said he was going about 50-55 mph in the right lane because whenever a large vehicle passed him the trailer sometimes would start to sway. Just prior to the crash, a semi-truck passed him at a high rate of speed and the trailer started to sway. He said that he didn't have time to slow down so just kept both hands on the wheel and held on.

The Critical pre-crash event for v1 was "This vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side". The Critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded as overcompensation. Some contributing factors on the part of v1 include the driver's focus to the left instead of forward, his discomfort with the handling of the truck while pulling the empty trailer, his lack of driver's training and his lack of knowledge of the roadway.