This two-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of a 5-lane, two-way asphalt roadway and a business driveway. The eastbound lanes are straight and level. The business drive exit is slightly uphill and is controlled by a stop sign. The speed limit for the area is 64 kmph (40 mph). The crash occurred just past noon during daylight hours with fairly heavy eastbound traffic. There were no adverse weather or road conditions present.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Ford Econoline E-450 medium/heavy truck used as a package delivery truck, was stopped at the business drive intending to turn left onto the roadway. A large SUV non-contact vehicle towing a boat was in the #1 eastbound lane decelerating, intending to turn right into the business drive. As the large SUV with the boat began to turn right into the business drive. The driver of V1, a thirty one (31) year-old male, believed the SUV was not going to make the turn without impacting his truck, so he looked right and left twice and believed he could successfully turn left. He saw vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Nissan pick-up truck, as it traveled eastbound in the #2 lane and he was about to start his left turn. V1 accelerated and because of the diesel engine, the truck paused for a second as it crossed the #1 lane before it sped up. The driver of V2, a forty one (41) year-old male, was traveling in the #2 eastbound lane taking his passenger to a friend's house. He reported his speed was 64 kmph (40 mph). He saw V1 as it pulled out of the drive. He also saw it pause as it crossed the #1 lane and the driver of V2 thought V1 was going to yield to him. As V1 crossed the #2 lane, V2 applied brakes and with its front-end plane skidded into the left side of V1. V1 was driven from the scene. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other (specified as: entering roadway from driveway - turning left). The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from driveway, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.