This two-vehicle crash occurred on a straight roadway in an interchange area. The north/south roadway consists of three lanes in each direction with center double solid yellow lines. In each direction, the right (curb) lane is divided (by a concrete barrier) from the two overpass lanes. In the northbound direction, the travel lanes have an uphill grade. The speed limit for this roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Mitsubishi Outlander, was northbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Suzuki Grand Vitara, was southbound in lane one. V1 attempted to turn into a driveway on the west side of the roadway. The front of V1 struck the left side of V2. V2 continued to the southwest and the front struck a utility pole. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-three-year-old male, was traveling with his three-year-old daughters, from an emissions testing station to a gas station. This driver was healthy, well rested and comfortable with his vehicle and passengers. He travels this route weekly. This driver stated that he saw V2 one-to-two seconds before the crash and steered right and applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The driver of V2, a nineteen-year-old female, was traveling with a two-year-old female passenger. They were on their way home from dropping the driver's mother off. This driver was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she saw V1 when it turned in front of her and steered right and applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's failure to look far enough ahead was an associated factor in this crash.

The visual obstruction caused by the concrete barrier north of the crash area was an associated factor in this crash.