The crash occurred on a five lane undivided arterial road that ran east/west. It was intersected by a side street from north and south at the crash location. The road was straight and level with a speed limit was 72kph (45mph). There were 2 lanes in each direction with the center lane (3) being a left turn only lane for either direction. There were no traffic controls for east/west traffic. Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight and dry with rush hour congestion on a weekday morning.

V1 was a 1998 Toyota Corolla traveling west in lane 1 of the arterial when it was struck on its left side by the front of V2, a 2003 Ford Explorer that was turning left (north) from lane three with its original travel direction being eastbound. V1 had been waved across from a stopped position by a non-contact pickup truck that had stopped due to heavy traffic in the left westbound lane. V1 came to rest on a sidewalk that bordered the north side of the arterial facing northwest. V2 then rotated about 40 degrees counterclockwise and traveled northwest, contacted a metal pole on the northwest corner of the intersection and came to rest facing northwest. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a forty-four year old belted male who was transported to an area hospital with possible injuries. His three minor children were in the second row ranging in age from 3-6 years old and none in child safety seats. All three children were transported with non-incapacitating injuries.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over lane line on the left side". The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No contributing actions were coded to this vehicle but the sight restriction of a non-contact vehicle and rush hour congestion were captured.

V2 was driven by a twenty two year old belted female who was not injured in the crash. She was on her way to work at the time of the crash and was less than one block away when it happened.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "this vehicle traveling, turning left at an intersection". The Critical Reason was "turned with obstructed view". The driver was coded as having looked but did not see also and the impending problem was masked by the traffic flow. She (D1) falsely assumed the way was clear to turn based on another motorist waving her out. The rush hour congestion and sightline restriction were also coded here.