This three-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The north/south roadway is straight, level and consists of two lanes in each direction. The east/west roadway is straight, level and consists of two lanes in each direction with a center left turn lane. The speed limit for these roadways is 48 kmph (30 mph). The roadways were wet at the time of the crash. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Ford F150 pickup, was southbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 GMC Jimmy, was eastbound in lane two. Vehicle three (V3), a 1999 Ford F250 pickup, was parked in a garage southeast of the intersection. In the intersection, the front of V1 struck the left side of V2. The vehicles rotated and the right side of V1 struck the left side of V2. V1 traveled to the southeast, off the roadway and the front struck a post. V2 rotated clockwise, traveling to the southeast and the back struck the back of V3. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-one-year-old male, was on his way to work from his home. He was healthy, familiar with his vehicle and travels this route daily. This driver stated that he was late for work but did not recall the crash details. His medical records indicate a BAC of .144 one hour after the crash.

The driver of V2, a fifty-four-year-old male, was on his way to work from his home. He was healthy, familiar with his vehicle and travels this route daily. This driver stated that he was late for work but did not recall the crash details. His medical records indicate a BAC of .126 two hours after the crash. This driver had worked twelve hours each day for the previous fourteen days.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was "not coded to this vehicle."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "driver related factor; type of driver error unknown." This driver's fatigue was an associated factor in this crash.