The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. The east/west roadway was undivided with two lanes in each direction. The other roadway had two southbound lanes and two northbound lanes divided by a grass median. Both roadways were straight, level, and bituminous with a posted speed of 64 kmph (40 mph). It was late afternoon on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was congested.

V1, a 2006 Pontiac Grand Prix four door sedan with two occupants, was traveling eastbound in lane two. V1 was approaching the intersection intending to turn left. V2, 1998 Buick Regal four door sedan with two occupants, was traveling westbound in lane two. V2 was approaching the intersection intending to go straight. V3, a 2001 Honda Gold Wing motorcycle with one rider, was traveling southbound in lane one. V3 was stopped at the intersection waiting to turn right. The driver of V1 stated that he did not see V2 due to the line of cars backed up in lane two westbound waiting to turn left. The driver of V2 stated that she was originally in lane two and saw the line of cars backed up. V2 changed lanes into lane one to proceed straight through the intersection. V1 turned left as V2 entered the intersection. V1 did not see V2 so he did not attempt any avoidance actions. V2 applied the brakes but could not avoid contacting V1. The front of V2 contacted the right front of V1, which sent V1 into V3. The driver of V3 saw V1 coming and jumped off the motorcycle prior to impact. The front of V1 contacted the left of V3 before they all came to final rest in the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Pontiac Grand Prix, was driven by a 73-year old male who reported injuries and was transported to a local trauma facility. He stated that he and the passenger were coming from home and were on their way to a restaurant. He stated that he did not stop, but decelerated at the intersection down to between 18-32 kmph (11-20 mph). He did not attempt any avoidance actions.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for the driver of V1 was: This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was a driver related factor: turned with obstructed view. Associated factors coded to this driver were the use of several prescription medications for diabetes, hypertension, and high cholesterol, conversation with the passenger, and a sightline restriction due to the backed up cars in the second westbound lane.

V2, the Buick Regal, was driven by a 63-year old female who reported no injuries and refused treatment. She stated that she and the passenger were coming from a restaurant and were on their way to her granddaughter's house. She stated that she was traveling between 50-64 kmph (31-40 mph) when she made the avoidance action to avoid contacting V1. She was not able to stop in time.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for the driver of V2 was: Other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction, over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to this driver was a sightline restriction due to the backed up cars.

V3, the Honda Gold Wing motorcycle, was driven by a 40-year old male who reported no injuries and refused treatment. He stated that he had just pulled out of the gas station and was on his way home. He stated that he had come to a complete stop at the intersection and never proceeded.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. Therefore, no Critical Pre-crash Event or Critical Reason was coded to the driver. No associated factors were coded to the driver of V3.