The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a high occupancy, high volume, and high-speed interstate highway. There were six lanes running southbound with both right and left side paved emergency shoulders. There were concrete wall barriers separating the northbound traffic. The road widths were a standard 3.7 meters and the emergency-paved shoulders were 3.5 meters. The road was curved to the right and level. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekend afternoon. The posted speed was a 105 KPH (65 MPH).

V1 was a 1998 Toyota Camry that was traveling southbound in lane five. A phantom vehicle was in lane four and decided to change lanes into five. The driver of the phantom vehicle cut into lane five then slowed down dramatically causing V1 to hit his brakes and lose to control when he tried to avoid hitting the back of the phantom vehicle. The driver of V1 hit the brakes and lost control departing over the left lane line then off the left side of the roadway into the left concrete wall. The phantom vehicle continued without stopping and there is no information on the vehicle or the driver. The driver of V1 was not injured and was towed due to damages Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1 was a 27-year-old male who was on his way to get a new uniform for work. The driver stated that he left from his home, which was ten miles north from the crash site. The driver stated that he was driving along going the speed limit when he saw a phantom vehicle change into his lane. He stated that once the phantom vehicle was in his lane the driver just slowed down. He didn't want to hit the back of the car so he hit his brakes and lost control. His right rear tire also had a blow out when he lost control and he departed the roadway till he hit the left concrete wall sustaining left front damage. The driver declined injuries to EMS on scene.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was this vehicle traveling off the left side off the roadway. The Critical Pre-crash Reason was a driver error, over compensation. The driver successfully avoided a collision with the phantom vehicle but his evasive actions caused him to hit the left concrete wall. There were no associative factors related to the driver.