The crash occurred in the eastbound lane of a two-lane east/westbound roadway. The roadway was bituminous with a 4 percent uphill grade and a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). It was late afternoon on a weekday. The road was dry. Traffic flow was moderate due to a previous crash northwest of this location.

V1, a 1999 Mitsubishi Eclipse 2-door with one occupant, was traveling east when the driver glanced in her rearview mirror. When she looked forward again she was closing in on V2 rapidly. V1 tried to avoid V2 by applying her brakes, but the maneuver was unsuccessful and the front of V1 struck V2 in the rear. V2, a 2007 Jeep Liberty utility vehicle with one occupant, was stopped in traffic when it was struck from behind by V1. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 21-year-old female who reported no injuries. The driver stated that she was coming home from college after finals and that the night before she had only 4 hours of sleep so she was feeling very tired during her trip. The driver then stated that prior to rounding the curve she had passed a motor vehicle crash and that she was glancing in her rearview mirror after negotiating the curve. When she looked forward again she was rapidly closing in on V2, which was stopped in the traffic lane. V1 attempted to avoid a collision with V2 by applying her brakes, but was unsuccessful and collided with V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "Other motor vehicle in lane-other vehicle stopped." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was an external distraction, because the driver was attempting to track a previous motor vehicle crash in her rearview mirror. Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include fatigue, the use of prescription allergy medication, and traffic congestion due to a previous crash nearby.

V2 was driven by a 56-year-old male who reported no injuries. The driver stated that he was stopped in traffic when he was struck from behind by V1. He did not see V1 approach and took no avoidance maneuver.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other motor vehicle in lane-traveling in same direction with higher speed." No Critical Reason for the Critical Event was assigned to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to this driver include the use of prescription medication to control diabetes and high cholesterol, being in a hurry as he was late for a social appointment (the driver was rushing home so he could meet his grandchildren for ice cream), and traffic congestion due to a previous crash nearby.