The crash occurred on an east/west two lane undivided roadway. This was a straight, level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 89 kmph (55 mph). It was late afternoon on a weekend and the road was wet due to rain. Traffic was light.

V1, a 2007 Pontiac G5 two door coupe with three occupants, was traveling westbound in lane one. V2, a 2002 Chevrolet Silverado pick-up with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane one. The driver of V1 slowed down and was looking for a particular driveway to pull into for an open house. The passengers were talking to the driver of V1 and trying to help her find it. V1 did not see V2 and attempted to turn left into a private drive. The driver of V2 stated that he saw V1 slow down but did not think that she would turn in front of him. The driver of V2 braked but could not avoid V1. The front of V2 contacted the front of V1. V1 spun counterclockwise 45 degrees before coming to final rest in the roadway. V2 departed the roadway on the right side and its front contacted two mailboxes before coming to final rest in a ditch. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 19-year old female who was transported to a local trauma facility for her injuries. She advised that she had just picked up her boyfriend and was on her way to an open house. She advised that she had been traveling between 34-48 kmph (21-30 mph) when she attempted to initiate a left turn into a driveway. She stated that she never saw V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for the driver of V1 was this vehicle traveling: turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was a driver related error: external distraction, because she was looking for the correct driveway to turn into and was not looking to see if a car was coming. Some associated factors for the driver of V1 were she was conversing with the passenger and she failed to look far enough ahead. She also had just bought the vehicle. It was raining at the time and the road was wet.

The driver of V2 was a 51-year old male who was transported to a local trauma facility for his injuries. He advised that he had just left home and was on his way to a fighting tournament. He advised that he was traveling between 67-80 kmph (41-50 mph) when he made the evasive action to avoid contacting V1. He was unable to stop in time.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for the driver of V2 was other vehicle encroachment: from opposite direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to the driver of V2 include the physical conditions of arthritis, GERD, and thyroid problems and the use of prescription medications for these conditions. Also coded was a false assumption of V1's actions, the weather (rain), and the wet roadway.