This crash occurred in a 4-way controlled intersection. Each approach of the intersection was a 4-lane undivided roadway with two lanes in each direction. The intersection was controlled by a stop light in each direction, allowing the north and southbound lanes get the green light at the same time and the east and westbound lanes to get the green light at the same time. The posted speed limit was 64 kmph (40 mph). The crash occurred in the early afternoon on a weekday at the start of lunch-hour congestion. The roads were fairly congested with stop-and-go traffic activity. The roads were dry and the skies were clear.

V1, a 1998 Chevrolet Cavalier 2-door with one occupant, was traveling east in lane two. V2, a 2004 Buick LeSabre 4-door with two occupants, was traveling west in lane one. As V1 approached the intersection, the driver stopped to allow oncoming traffic to clear so that she could make a left turn. The light was green. V2 approached the intersection with the intention of going straight through and also had a green light. V2 had the right of way and continued at constant speed. V1 then turned left in front of V2. V2 attempted to avoid the collision by braking and steering right. However, V2 was unsuccessful in avoiding the collision and the front of V1 struck the left front corner of V2. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Chevrolet Cavalier, was driven by a 23-year-old female who reported "C" injuries and was transported to a medical facility from the accident scene. V1 was heading east intending on making a left at the intersection. As V1 got closer to the intersection, the driver stated (in the PAR) that a non-contact vehicle traveling in the opposite direction successfully made a left through the intersection. The driver of V1 also stated that she observed the oncoming roadway as being clear. V1 turned left in front of V2 and struck the left front corner of V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded as "This vehicle traveling- turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as "Inadequate Surveillance- looked but did not see." The driver stated in the PAR that she looked in the lanes of oncoming traffic but did not see V2 approaching and thought the intersection was clear for her to turn. The driver stated that she did look to make sure the intersection was clear but did not see the vehicle approaching. Due to the lack of interview no other associated factors could be coded to this driver.

V2, the 2004 Buick LeSabre, was driven by a 31-year-old male who reported no injuries. His passenger, a 17-month-old female, also reported no injuries. The driver stated that they were on their way from home to a doctor's appointment for his daughter. The driver stated that as he approached the intersection the light was green so he continued at a constant speed (which was about the speed limit). He observed V1 approaching the intersection with her left turn signal on but assumed that V1 would yield to the right of way and continued toward the intersection. All of a sudden, V1 turned left in front of V2. The driver of V2 slammed on his brakes, checked to see if the adjacent roadway was clear and steered to the right to try and avoid the collision but was unsuccessful in this avoidance maneuver. V1 struck the left front corner of V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded as "Other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line.' The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. The associated factor that was coded to this vehicle was false assumption of other actions. The driver of V2 assumed that V1 would not turn because V2 had the right of way.