This two-vehicle crash occurred in the afternoon hours of a weekday in the middle of a four-way intersection. The intersection consisted of a one-way, two-lane east/west roadway, which was intersected by a two-way, two-lane north/south roadway. The north/south roadway was controlled by stop signs, however, there were no traffic control devices for the east/west roadway. The bituminous roadways were straight and level and had a posted speed limit of 40kmph (25mph). It was overcast at the time of the crash, but the roadway was dry. There were no traffic flow problems when the crash occurred.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Honda Element, was heading west on the one-way street in lane two, intending to continue straight through the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Toyota Corolla, was heading south on the roadway approaching the intersection. As V2 entered the intersection it was struck on the left front side by the front right of V1. After the impact, vehicle two rotated clockwise approximately 45 degrees before coming to final rest. Vehicle one was able to pull off to the left side of the roadway. Vehicle two had to be removed from the scene due to damage. Vehicle one on the other hand, while able to be driven, opted for a private tow. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a 50 year-old male did not suffer any injuries as a result of the crash and did not require any medical transport. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A partial interview was obtained on-scene from this driver, before he became uncomfortable with the questions and ceased cooperation. He had revealed that he was only driving for about a minute or so, and was heading out to umpire a baseball game. As he was driving along at approximately 40kmph (25mph), he saw V2 pull out into the intersection when he attempted to steer left to avoid the collision. He claimed he was not fatigued at the beginning of this trip. He relayed that he was in good health and was not taking any medication. He felt that his vehicle was in good working condition and that no mechanical problems contributed to this crash.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was: "other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path". The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. One possible associated factor coded to this vehicle was a sightline obstruction due to parked vehicles on the side of the roadway.

The driver of vehicle two, a 31 year-old female, suffered possible injuries as a result of the crash and was taken to the hospital for observation. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. After numerous attempts, an interview could not be obtained from this driver. It is therefore uncertain if any fatigue or health related issues contributed to this crash.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was: "this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through intersection)". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded “unknown reason for critical event”. One possible associated factor coded for this driver was a sightline restriction due to parked vehicles on the side of the road.