This crash occurred in the afternoon of a weekend in the middle of an urban intersection of two roadways. The intersection consisted of an east/west two-lane roadway and a southbound with one lane roadway controlled by a properly functioning traffic signal. Both roadways were bituminous dry, straight, and level with posted speed limits of 48 kmph (30 mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 2006 Ford E-Series Ambulance with two occupants was westbound in lane one approaching the intersection. V2, a 2001 Mercedes-Benz ML320 with one occupant was southbound in lane one approaching the same intersection. V1 was responding to an emergency call and had its lights and sirens activated. V2 failed to yield to V1 and the front of V1 contacted the left side of V2. V2 continued forward and departed the roadway over the southwest corner of the intersection. The front of V2 contacted a light pole and came to final rest. V1 came to final rest in the roadway near the southwest corner of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 49 year-old male, was uninjured in the crash. A 39 year-old occupant also reported no injuries. He advised that he was responding to an emergency call, with the emergency lights and siren activated. As he approached the intersection he slowed down and attempted to cross the intersection. He stated that he was traveling approximately 40 kmph (25 mph), and slowed down to approximately 24 kmph (15 mph) for the intersection. He saw V2 attempting to go around a vehicle that had yielded for him, and he appeared to be making a right turn but instead crossed into the intersection. He could not avoid V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to the driver. An associated factors coded include a false assumption (he assumed that the other driver would yield the right of way) and the fact they were in a hurry.

The driver of V2, a 37-year-old male, reported no injuries but was transported to a medical facility. He advised that he was visiting his parents and traveling approximately 48 kmph (30 mph) through the intersection. He stated that he did not see or hear V1 and did not realize what happened.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver related factor, inadequate surveillance. Associated factors include an internal distraction (listen to stereo at high volume), as well as a traffic flow restriction (approaching emergency vehicle).

An independent witness on-scene confirmed that V1 did indeed have its lights and sirens activated and it slowed down as it approached the intersection. The witness also indicated that V2 had its stereo volume at a level that would have prevented its driver from hearing the approaching ambulance.