The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a five lane undivided roadway. There were two lanes in each direction separated by a left turn only lane. The roadway was curved to the left (radius of curvature of 159 m and with a super-elevation of 4% downhill to the north). The asphalt road was level and dry with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The crash occurred at midday on a weekday under clear skies and with moderate traffic flow.

V1, a 2006 Chevy Cobalt four-door with one occupant was eastbound in lane one. V2, a 1997 Jeep Cherokee four door SUV with one occupant was eastbound in lane one ahead of V1. While negotiating the curve to the left V1 started to rotate clockwise and to yaw toward the center of the road. It rotated 180 degrees and was overtaking V2 on the left skidding back toward lane one when its left rear struck the left passenger area of V2 (Event 1) causing V2 to depart the road to the right and to strike the guardrail on the south edge of the road (Event 2). V2 continued eastward scraping the guardrail while V1 rotated slightly counter-clockwise and struck the left front side of V2 (Event 3). V1 came to rest still facing west in lane one about 40m east of the first impact. V2 came to rest facing east on the shoulder about 50m east of the first impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 43-year old female, was coded for possible injury but was not transported. The driver reported that she was traveling from her home to a doctor's appointment and was running late so she was in a hurry. She said she did not know how fast she was traveling. The driver also advised that she realized she was negotiating a curve and needed to slow down. She added that her vehicle started to skid toward the center of the road and when she applied her brakes. She than steered hard right causing her vehicle to rotate clockwise into lane one where it struck V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the right side of the travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded traveling too fast for curve. Associated factors include fatigue as well as interactions with taking several medications she was taking for multiple physical and mental ailments, (she was also charged with DUI blood test results unknown, according to the police report). Also coded was inattention due to family problems, she admitted that she was upset over her pending divorce, and also in a hurry. She also expressed her discomfort and unfamiliarity with her rental vehicle.

The driver of V2, a 43-year old male, suffered minor injuries and was transported to a hospital. The driver advised that he was traveling about the speed limit en route from one client's home to another client's home. He added that as he was negotiating the curve when heard tires screeching and glanced into his side-view mirror where he saw V1 skidding sideways out of control and overtaking his vehicle from the left rear. He said he struck V1 before he could apply his brakes.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane, same direction, over the left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle. Coded as an associated factor for V2 due only to its presence was driver physical condition, he was taking a medication for acid reflux.