The crash occurred on a level, three lane undivided roadway with a posted speed limit of 64 KPH (40 MPH). The roadway was curved with a radius of curvature of 281 meters and a superelevation of 2.5%. The weather was clear, the roadway dry and it was daylight at the time of the early morning weekday crash. The traffic flow was normal for that time of day.

V1, a 1997 Honda Civic, was traveling north negotiating the curve to the left. V2, a 2000 Ford Taurus, was traveling south negotiating the curve to the right. V1 crossed over the left turn only lane and attempted to turn left into a driveway. V2 struck V1 in the right side with its front. V1 was rotated counterclockwise across the left turn only lane, northbound and struck a parked vehicle on the east side of the road with its front. V1 came to rest facing in an easterly direction. V2 continued off the right side of the roadway, up and over a curbed island and came to rest facing in a southwesterly direction in a store parking lot. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Honda Civic, was driven by an unbelted 39-year-old male who was not injured. The driver advised that he had worked all night painting, was not in a hurry and was on his way home. He stated that he was sleepy and was hit while making a left turn into a driveway. Information was obtained through an interpreter; little additional information was obtained due to the driver not speaking English.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was this vehicle turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was inadequate surveillance (failed to look, looked but did not see), a driver recognition error. This was chosen because the driver made the left turn and never saw the other vehicle. It was also possible that he was focused on his turn destination and did not observe V2. An additional factor coded to this driver was fatigue.

V2, the Ford Taurus, was driven by a belted 35-year-old female who was transported, treated and released for a bruise to her head. She stated that she was on her way to work, drove this route daily and not in a hurry. She said that she saw the car at the last second as it turned in front of her and did not think she had any time to take avoidance actions. She had no recollection of how she ended up in the parking lot. She considered herself in good health, took a prescription medication and wore contacts for hyperopic (far-sighted) and myopic (near-sighted) conditions.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over the left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to this driver was the use of prescription medication.