This single vehicle crash occurred on a divided seven-lane roadway. On the eastbound side, there are four lanes: three through lanes and one merge lane. This is a divided, straight, downhill, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 105 kmph (65 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with moderate traffic flow. The roadway was wet; however, the roadside was snow covered. After the crash occurred fog rolled into the area.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Subaru Outback station wagon with three occupants, was in lane two going straight. It had just rained and snowed and the roadway was wet and slick. The driver, traveling at a police reported speed of 100 kmph (62 mph), lost control under a bridge overpass and the vehicle started to rotate clockwise. The vehicle departed the right side of the road, ran up an embankment and impacted a pine tree with its back. The vehicle, still rotating clockwise, impacted a tree with its right side. The vehicle continued to travel backwards and impacted a third tree with its back running over it. The vehicle continued backwards and started to rotate clockwise and hit another tree with its back. After the forth impact, V1 slid down an embankment and came to rest on its wheels facing the travel lanes northeast on the shoulder. It was towed from the scene with moderate back damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 100 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1, a forty-seven year old male, stated he was driving from home to the airport and talking with the passengers. He drives this route several times a month and this was the first time driving this vehicle, as it was owned by one of the passengers. He had just finished working at a ski resort two days prior and was going to take a six-week vacation. He claimed he was not in a hurry at this time and had driven 145 kilometers (90 miles) when the collision occurred. He was well rested and takes the medication Sulfusalizine on a regular basis, although he claimed no illness. The rear of the vehicle was loaded with allot of luggage for the trip, which possibly affected the driver being able to recover from the hydroplane. It is unknown if tire pressure was a factor because 3 of the 4 tires were flat after the crash. The right front tire was slightly overinflated and all tires had sufficient tread depth. The cruise control was set in the on position when the vehicle was inspected.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as an environment related factor: slick roads (from rain and snow).