The crash occurred on a two-way, urban roadway with two lanes in each direction divided by a curbed grassy median, with a posted speed limit of 56 kmh (35 mph). Conditions at the time of the weekday afternoon crash were daylight, cloudy and dry on the straight, bituminous road. The impact occurred where a northbound one-way crossover in the median intersects the road.

V1, a 1996 Geo Metro 2 door hatchback driven by a 68 year-old female on her way from home to the bank, was westbound on the road traveling 30 mph in the left lane. The driver stated that the vehicle in front of her slowed suddenly on the road near the crossover. The driver had no time to avoid the crash and the front of v1 struck the back of v2 in lane two. V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to final rest in lane two facing southwest in the intersection. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver and the front right passenger were transported to a local trauma center. The 23 year-old female in the second row on the right side denied injuries at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 2006 Hyundai Sonata 4 door sedan, was driven by an 18 year-old female visiting from out of state and unfamiliar with the road. V1 was westbound on the road in lane two in front of v1 traveling 25-30 mph. The driver stated that she picked up her 25 year-old male relative in the front right seat from probation and was taking him home. The driver wanted to go eastbound and slowed to turn left into the crossover with her left turn signal on, when she realized it was one-way in the opposite direction. The driver stated that suddenly she was struck from behind and had no chance to avoid the crash. V2 rotated counterclockwise, went up the curb into the median and came to rest facing south. V2 was drivable following the crash. The fully restrained driver and passenger denied injuries.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to the driver of v1 was 'other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction while decelerating.' The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded was 'following too closely to respond to unexpected actions of other road users.' The front right adult passenger of v1 stated that they were one car length behind v2. Associated factor coded for this driver was for possible side effects to her prescribed medication for allergies, high cholesterol, thyroid condition, and an antibiotic.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to the driver of v2 was 'other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed.' The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Contributing factors coded to this driver were 'unfamiliarity with road' and second time driving this vehicle.' Associated factors coded were for 'conversing with passenger' and 'listening to radio'.