This two-vehicle crash occurred at a four-way intersection that is controlled by stop signs for southbound and northbound traffic. There are two eastbound and two westbound lanes that are separated by a two-way left turn lane. There is one southbound and northbound lane on each side of the intersection. On the south side of the intersection, there is a designated left lane. The speed limit for the east and west roadway is posted 56 kmph (35 mph). Both roadways were straight, level and constructed of bituminous asphalt. The roadways were dry and the sky was clear at the time of the mid-afternoon daylight crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Honda 4 door Civic with one occupant, was making a left turn to travel east after being stopped for a stop sign. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Chevrolet Blazer with one occupant, was traveling westbound in the number two-lane approaching the intersection at about 56 kmph (35 mph). V2 entered the intersection when V1 traveled across the path of his vehicle. The front of V2 struck the left side of V1. The vehicles came to rest in the intersection. V1 drove to the opposite side of the intersection but was later towed from the scene. V2 was towed form the scene. There were no injuries reported at the scene by both drivers. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

A sixteen (16) year old female drove V1. She said that she was stopped at the stop sign, waiting to turn left. She said she saw a car in the right lane approaching and was slowing down to make a right turn. That car began to turn and she began to accelerate through the intersection until V2, which was traveling in the westbound left lane, struck her on the left. She said that she did not see the other car coming and thought traffic was clear for her to go through the intersection. The driver said she was on her way to a friends house coming from home. She said that she usually travels on a different road, but it was under construction. She said that she does not take any medications and does play softball for her high school team.

A twenty nine (29) year old female drove V2. She said that she was traveling westbound din the left lane on her way to pick up her children from day care. She said that there was another car in the lane to her right slowing down to make a right turn. That vehicle began to turn right and V1 traveled in front of her. She said that she did hit her brakes but they did not lock up. She said that she did not see V1 until it was in front of her. She said that the car that was turning right blocked her view of V1. She said that she had just left work about 20 minutes before the crash. She said that she is in good health and was tired but just wanted to pick up her kids and go home.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: turned with obstructed view. The driver did look but did not see V2 approaching due to the intervening vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street - turning into opposite direction. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

An associated factor for both driver was the sight line restriction created by the non contact vehicle turning right at the intersection. This vehicle restricted the views of both drivers of each other.