This two-vehicle crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions. The east/west roadway is straight and consists of one lane in each direction, a center left-turn lane and parking lanes on both sides. There is a driveway on the south side of this roadway. The eastbound travel lane has a five percent downhill grade and the driveway has a ten percent downhill grade in the northbound direction. The speed limit for the roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Honda Civic, was stopped northbound in the driveway, waiting to turn left. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Ford Crown Victoria, was eastbound in lane one. V1 entered the roadway, turning left, and the left side was struck by the front of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-two-year-old male, was on his way home from a class. He was well rested, healthy and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver takes Adderall for his Adult Attention Deficit Disorder but had not taken it yet on the day of the crash. He stated that he stopped for more than ten seconds and looked left and right before he entered the roadway. He further stated that he did not see V2 until "the last second" and did not make any avoidance maneuvers.

The driver of V2, a forty-five-year-old male, was on his way from work to a nearby work-related meeting. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. He takes the medication Prevacid. This driver stated that he saw V1 enter the roadway and steered left and applied the brakes (skidding longitudinally) in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other; leaving driveway, turning left." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from driveway, turning into opposite direction." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."