The crash occurred on a two-way, two-lane, straight, level, bituminous road with a posted speed limit of 80 kph (50 mph). Conditions at the time of the weekday afternoon crash were daylight, clear and dry. A tree trimming crew had the southbound lanes restricted north of the crash. Southbound traffic was routed to the northbound lanes until just prior to the crash site.

V1, a 2001 Ford F-150 4 door pick up, was driven by a 44 year-old male on his way from home to pick up his sons. The driver stated that he had just cleared the lane restriction and slow down due to tree trimmers, and had returned to the southbound lane. Traffic speeds were returning to normal when a sports utility vehicle (V3) ahead suddenly stopped. The vehicle in front of v1 (V2) locked up his brakes. V1 braked (full ABS application), but the front of v1 struck the back of v2. V1 came to rest in lane one facing south and was drivable after the crash. The fully restrained driver denied injuries at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 1994 Toyota Camry LE 4 door sedan, was driven by a 67 year-old male on his way home from a gas station. The driver stated that a car ahead of v3 stopped to make a turn. V3 and v2 came to a complete stop. The driver of v2 looked in his rearview mirror and saw v1 approaching and not slowing. The v2 driver was not able to take any avoidance actions. Following the impact to the back, v2 was pushed forward. The front of v2 struck the back of v3. V2 came to rest in lane one facing south and was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver was transported to a local trauma center due to injuries.

V3, a 2004 Saturn Vue 4 door sports utility vehicle, was driven by a 42 year-old female on her way to her father's home (passenger) from the store. The driver's 77 year-old father was the front right passenger. The passenger stated that they were stopped behind a vehicle which was stopped waiting for oncoming traffic to clear to turn left into a driveway. V1 struck v2, which was pushed into the back of v3. The driver of v3 had no time for avoidance actions. V3 came to rest in lane one facing south and was drivable following the crash. The fully restrained driver was treated at the scene. The fully restrained passenger was transported to a local trauma center.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to v1 was 'other vehicle in lane-other vehicle stopped.' The Critical Reason coded to this driver was a 'driver related decision error-following too closely to be able to respond to unexpected actions of other's-v2 and v3 suddenly stopping in road ahead.' Contributing factors coded were 'assumed that other driver(s) would continue to proceed without stopping.'

The Critical Precrash Event coded to v2 was 'other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed.' The Critical Reason was not coded to this driver.

The Critical Precrash Event and Critical Reason were not coded to v3.

An 'other road restriction' was coded for the lane reduction due to the tree trimming crew prior to the crash site.