The crash occurred in the intersection of a four-lane divided roadway and a two lane undivided roadway. The north/south roadway had two northbound lanes and two southbound lanes on the southbound approach to the intersection. The east/west roadway had one lane in each direction and ended at the intersection in the eastbound direction. The north/south roadway had a posted speed limit of 64kmph (40mph) and the east/west roadway had a speed limit of 40kmph (25mph). Both roadways were straight, level and bituminous. The intersection was controlled by a traffic signal. It was early afternoon on a weekday, the road was dry and skies were clear.

V1, a 1997 Chevrolet Blazer sport utility vehicle with one occupant, was traveling south in lane two. V2, a 2004 Chrysler Sebring 4-door sedan with three occupants, was stopped at a red light on the eastbound roadway waiting to turn left. When the light turned green, V2 began to pull into the intersection. V2 was in the intersection when V1 failed to stop at a red light and impacted the left side of V2 with V1's front. Witnesses on scene reported that V1 ran the red light. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

V1, the Chevy Blazer, was driven by a 40 year-old female who was transported from the scene. No interview could be obtained for V1. The driver of V1 was also uninsured at the time of the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. A known associated factor was an illegal maneuver, because the driver failed to stop at a legal red light.

V2, the Chrysler Sebring, was driven by a 36 year-old male who was transported from the scene. The driver related that he and his children had just finished lunch and were on their way home. As the driver made a left turn, V1 ran a red light and struck his vehicle on the left. The driver related he didn't see the other vehicle until he was in the intersection and he tried to avoid the crash by steering right and accelerating but was unsuccessful.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was inadequate surveillance, for failing to look for approaching traffic before entering the intersection. No additional associated factors were coded to this driver.