This crash occurred in the southbound lanes on a four-lane bridge that was divided by a concrete barrier. There were two northbound lanes and two southbound lanes. This roadway was straight, had a slight uphill grade, was concrete, and had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). It was early afternoon on a weekday and it was raining heavily. Weather conditions were very bad as there was also fog, and funnel clouds were sited not far from the crash.

V1 was a 2000 Ford E250 Van, heading south. V2 was a 2002 Chevrolet Avalanche, heading south in front of V1. V2 was stopped in lane one traveling southbound, as it had become disabled. V2 had its' hazard lights on. V1 was traveling southbound in lane one when it impacted the rear of V2 and then made contact with the concrete barrier on the right side of the road. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 36 year-old male with unknown injuries. The driver of V1 seemed to be somewhat confused as to what had happened. He recalled following another vehicle and that that vehicle changed lanes to the left. He then saw V2, but it took him some time to realize that V2 was stopped. By the time that he realized that V2 was not moving and he applied the brakes, it was too late to stop the impact.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was, "other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped." The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was, "driver related factor, inadequate surveillance." The wet roads and heavy rain and fog were also coded as factors. Another associated factor was the tires: the front tire was over inflated by 24 psi and the back tires were under inflated by 20 psi.

V2 was driven by a 32 year-old female who had no injuries. She stated to the police that while she was driving across the bridge her vehicle became disabled. She put on her flashers because she was stopped.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was, "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle.