Case Summary 2007-43-204

This two-vehicle crash occurred at an urban three-legged intersection. The main roadway runs east/west with an intersecting road from the south controlled by a stop sign. There are two east lanes and two west lanes divided by a two-way left turn lane. Eastbound approach curves left with an uphill profile. Westbound approach is straight with a downhill profile. The posted speed limit is 56 kph (35 mph). Setting was early afternoon hours on a weekday. Conditions were daylight, sunny and clear with large overhead trees casting shadows on the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

V1 is a 2007 Ford Ranger, small pickup with one occupant traveling eastbound in lane one. V2 is a 1999 Toyota Camry, four-door with one occupant stopped in westbound lane three (left turn lane). V2 proceeded to make a left turn from a stopped position and contacted the front-left corner of V1, (in the intersection) with its front plane (Event 1). The first impact caused V2 to spin counterclockwise and strike the left side of V1 with its front-right plane (Event 2). V1 came to rest facing east 8.5 meters (28 feet) from impact area. V2 came to final rest facing southeast 6.2 meters (20 feet) from impact area. There were no visible precrash tire impressions by either V1 or V2.

The driver of V1 is a 28 year-old female who suffered minor injuries. Her boyfriend drove her to the hospital directly from the crash scene. She is a full-time college student who doesn't currently work. She has been on Christmas break for the last week, so hasn't attended school either. On this clear afternoon, she left her apartment to go pick up her sick cat that had been at the vet for several days receiving treatment. She was worried about her sick cat while driving. She was traveling 64 kph (40 mph) in lane one around a left curve. When she approached the intersection, she noticed V2 in the opposing left turn lane, stopped with its left blinker on. Just prior to entering the intersection, V2 started to turn left. She saw him turn and kept thinking “he's going to stop, let me go, then finish his turn.” At the last moment, she realized he didn't see her coming. She braked without lock-up and thinks she steered right, but a crash was evident and unavoidable at that time. Her vehicle suffered disabling LF corner and was removed from the scene via a tow truck.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 is “Other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over the left lane line.” The Critical Reason was “Not coded to this vehicle.” She has body acne that she treats with a prescription antibiotic. She did admit to being upset prior to the crash because her cat had been sick at the vet's office for several days. No other factors were present for this driver.

The driver of V2 is a 75 year-old male who was transported from the scene with serious injuries. He was unable to be located for an interview. According to medical records, this driver was turning left when he was struck on the passenger side of his vehicle in a near head-on crash collison. He is retired with an extensive medical history as well as medication usage. Reports indicate several days prior to the crash, he fell down striking his left rib, sustaining a small left rib fracture. He was prescribed Ultracet (pain medication) to treat the pain. His vehicle also suffered disabling front-end damage, requiring tow.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 is “This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection.” The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was “Inadequate surveillance.” According to driver of V1, V2 was stopped, and then preceded to turn left into her left side. She strongly believed that he never saw her coming. The large overhead trees did cause significant shadows on the roadway and this driver was stated as having right eye blindness with limited vision in the left eye. This evidence supported the inadequate surveillance coding. Doctors also requested DMV (Department of Motor Vehicles) be notified immediately due to the vision impairments and history of chronic heart and circulatory systems problems. He also suffers from high cholesterol, high blood pressure, kidney failure, prostate cancer, gout, mini-strokes, mitral valve replacement, and coronary artery bypass. More recently the driver fell down and broke a left rib in which he was treating the pain with a strong non-opiate prescription painkiller. He uses fourteen different medications daily to treat his various health conditions. The shadows and sun-glare on the roadway were possibly contributing roadway and environmental factors. Official police reports indicate he was blinded by sunlight as a vision obstruction.