This crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. The east/west roadway consisted of seven lanes divided by a concrete curbed median. There were no traffic controls for east/west traffic. The north/south roadway featured two undivided lanes and was controlled by a stop sign. Conditions were daylight on a weekday morning with clear skies. The bituminous roadways were dry, straight, and level. The traffic flow was heavy as it was morning rush hour.

V1, a 1998 Ford Mustang with one occupant, was westbound in lane four (the designated left turn lane) approaching the intersection where it intended to turn left. V2, a 2003 Mitsubishi Gallant with one occupant, was eastbound in lane one intending to continue straight through the intersection. As V1 began its left turn V2 entered the intersection. The front of V2 struck the right front corner of V1. V1 rotated counter-clockwise and came to final rest in lane three of the eastbound lanes. After the initial impact V2 departed the roadway over the southeast corner of the intersection and struck a concrete pole before coming to final rest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 31-year-old male, suffered minor injuries but was not transported. He stated that he was in the left turn only lane and was focused on the vehicle that was in front of him. He stated that the vehicle in front of him was waiting to turn left but then decided to go straight. He stated that his focus remained on that vehicle when he began his left turn. He did not look for on-coming traffic until after he had entered the intersection and saw V2 at the last moment. He tried to hit the gas and steer to the left but could not avoid the collision.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle turning left at the intersection. The Critical Reason was a driver related factor, an external distraction due to the fact his focus was on the vehicle in front of him. The rush hour traffic was coded as an associated factor.

The driver of V2, a 50-year-old woman, was transported for treatment of incapacitating injuries. She stated that she was on her way to work when she saw V1 turn right in to her. She stated it all happened so quickly that she was not sure if she even reacted.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded as another vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over left lane. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The rush hour traffic and a sightline restriction were coded as associated factors.