This two-vehicle crash occurred on a signal-controlled north/south road with a major intersecting east/west road. There were five northbound lanes with a dedicated left turn and right turn lane with a slight uphill profile. There were four southbound lanes with a dedicated left and right turn lane with a slight downhill profile. Both roadways were straight and bituminous with curbed shoulders and sidewalks. The crash occurred during the evening of a weekday when conditions were dark, with overhead street lighting, misty rain and wet roads.

Vehicle 1 (V1), a 1996 Isuzu Rodeo with four occupants, was northbound in lane five, the designated left turn lane approaching the intersection. Vehicle 2 (V2), a 1995 Honda Civic Del Sol with one occupant, was southbound in lane three. V1 entered the intersection without stopping and began its left turn maneuver. V2 entered the intersection, as V1 was turning left in front of it. The front of V2 struck the right side of V1. The impact pushed V1 laterally in a clockwise rotation until it came to final rest facing east 11.3 meters (37 feet) from impact. V2 rotated clockwise and came to final rest facing north in its original travel lane 18.6 meters (61 feet) from impact. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 31 year-old unemployed, single mother, was treated on-scene by EMS. She had just left a tax service and was on her way back home with her three children. She is new to the area and has only driven this roadway two or three times. The weather was misty and she reported having her windshield wipers on. She was conversing with her three children about family mattes while driving. As she entered the intersection to complete her left turn, she realized V2 was not going to stop and was struck on the right side. She thought V2 should have stopped because her light was green.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a false assumption of other road user's action. She thought that because she had a solid green light, V2 must have had a red light. She reported being under stress from a recent relocation to this new city as well as being an unemployed single mother with three children to care for. She is also required to wear prescription eyeglasses while driving, but wasn't wearing them prior to or during the crash. The roads were dark and wet; and she was unfamiliar with the area and the traffic patterns.

The driver of V2, a 24 year-old female, was not injured in the crash. She had just left work for the day and stopped at the gas station to fill her car up before heading home. She reported driving straight at 64 kmph (40 mph) in lane two, the far left lane. She noticed V1 in the opposing left turn lane, but didn't expect her to turn since she had a green light. V1 suddenly and unexpectedly proceeded to make a left turn. She applied the brakes and steered left in an attempt to avoid a collision, but was unsuccessful.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. She was driving too fast for conditions. A false assumption that V1 was going to yield the right of way was coded an associated factor. The rain and wet roads were also coded as associated factors.