The crash occurred off the roadway off a T-intersection with five lanes, lane one and two ran northbound, lane three was a turn lane, and lane four and five were for southbound traffic. The intersecting roadway ran east/west. Lane one ran west and lane two was for eastbound traffic. The roadway was straight and level. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekday afternoon. The posted speed was 56 KPH (35MPH).

V1 was a 1994 Dodge Caravan that was traveling northbound in lane one. The driver was a 47-year-old male who had a car detailing business. The driver was on his way to a customer's house and could not find the address of where he was going. The driver was on his cell phone and was looking for a pen in his glove box when he looked up and was heading for a pole off the right side of the roadway. The driver stated it was too late to avoid the crash. He hit the front of the pole with his front right tire then lost control and went sideways until he made final rest into V2, a 2003 Mercedes Benz that was parked in a parking lot. There was no evident damage to V2 but the officer had to include this impact in his report. The driver was transported to the local hospital with injuries and his vehicle was towed due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1 and 80 kmph for V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was "this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side". The Critical Reason was a driver error an “internal distraction" as the driver admitted to being on his cell phone. He was cited for failure to use due care, driving without a valid license, no insurance, no registration, and careless driving. The driver was distracted as he was on his cell phone and he needed a pen to write the address of where he was going. He was looking and reaching into his glove box for a pen when he looked up and saw he was veering off the roadway heading straight for a pole on the northeast corner. The driver hit the pole then lost control heading sideways till he came off the roadway through some bushes. The driver was transported. The medical report revealed that he had a blood alcohol of .153 and tested positive for cocaine. He was taking medication for a heart problem, HIV, hypertension, renal insufficiency, gout, chronic hepatitis C and herpes.