The crash occurred on a two-way, two-lane secondary arterial road that ran north/south in a rural/residential area. The road was level with a curve left (west) if northbound. The curve radius measured 940 meters and was super-elevated at 2.1%. The speed limit was 64kph/40mph in either travel direction. Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight with cloud cover and dry early on a weekday evening.

V1 was a 2001 Kia Optima, traveling north on the road when V2, a 1997 Acura 2.2CL, turned left across V1's path attempting to turn left into a driveway on the east side of the road. The front (left corner) of V1 impacted (after leaving about 9 meters of precrash skids) the center front of V2 in lane 1 northbound. V1 then traveled off the right side of the road and hit a signpost with its front (impact 2) then came to rest at impact #3 facing northeast where its front contacted a fencepost. V2 rotated just over 180 degrees counter-clockwise after impact and came to rest facing north in lane 1 southbound. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a belted-seventeen-year-old-female who was on her way with her fifteen-year-old younger sister to a local park for softball practice. The sister was not listed on the police report but neither occupant was injured in the crash. D1 admitted to speeding but said that there were no non-driving activities occurring in V1 at the time of the crash (i.e. talking etc.) She was interviewed with her mother present and her mother was in an agitated mood (D1's father had also just called to inform her he had also just been involved in a minor MVA).

The critical precrash event for V1 was other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over the left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. Traveling too fast, did not realize caution was required was attributed to V1. She was also coded with falsely assuming V2 would continue to proceed because she said it looked like V2 hesitated mid-turn, so she (D1) previously (precrash) thought V2 would clear the road before V1 arrived. In a hurry was coded as the drivers' normal driving pattern per her own admission. Inexperience was also attributed here.

V2 was driven by a fifty-year-old-belted-female-whose airbags deployed in the crash. She was transported to an area hospital with possible injuries. She was on her way home from dropping her grandson off at the same park V1 was headed for and was on this road for the first time thinking she was finding a shortcut home and then realized her mistake and was intending to turn around in the driveway on the east side of the road.

The critical precrash event for V2 was this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection (into a driveway) and the critical reason was coded as an external distraction, driver looking at intended turn destination. The driver was coded as fatigued due to a regular lack of or restless sleep per the surrogate interview with her husband. The driver also had untreated high blood pressure. She was also attributed with inadequate surveillance, looked but did not see. The first time on road/experience factor was also captured.