This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-way traffic signal-controlled intersection. On the south side of the intersection, the roadway is undivided and northbound traffic lanes consist of a right turn lane, two through lanes, and a left turn lane. This roadway is straight and uphill, with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). On the west side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a curbed median and eastbound traffic lanes consist of a right turn lane, two through lanes, and a left turn lane. This roadway is straight and level, with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with light traffic flow.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Volkswagen Jetta with one occupant, was northbound in lane two, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Ford Taurus with one occupant, was stopped at the intersection, eastbound in lane three. The traffic signal indicated a green light for eastbound traffic and the driver of V2 proceeded into the intersection. V1 entered the intersection at the same time. Neither driver saw the other vehicle in time to execute any serious avoidance actions, and the front of V2 impacted the front left of V1. V1 rotated slightly clockwise and came to rest against the curb facing north-northeast on the northeast corner of the intersection. V2 rotated 180° counterclockwise and came to rest facing west in the middle of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a seventy-eight-year-old female, was coming from a recreation center and was on her way to a mall. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route a couple of times a week. She stated she doesn't have any pre-existing health conditions, but medical records indicate she takes Norvasc, Diovan, and Hydrochlorothiazide on a daily basis for treatment of hypertension. She said she thought she had the green light and all of a sudden there was another car in the intersection.

The driver of V2, a twenty-five-year-old female, was coming from a store and going to her brother's house. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route weekly. She is in good health and takes no medications. This driver was traveling through the intersection and never saw V1 prior to impact.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (failed to look, looked but did not see). The driver failed to recognize that her traffic light was red instead of green as she thought. The driver also did not observe V2's presence until just prior to impact. Based on teh post crash vehicle trajectories, V1 was traveling at a much higher rate of speed than V2 was traveling.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.