This crash occurred off the left side of the roadway from a two-lane roadway. There was one westbound and one eastbound lane with concrete curbs. The speed limit is posted 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred at dusk . The roadway is straight with no traffic controls. The roadway was dry, constructed of asphalt and the sky was clear. There was a private parking lot north of the roadway on the left side.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Honda CRV 4WD compact utility vehicle with one occupant, was eastbound in the number one lane. The driver reached down to change a CD and the vehicle crossed into the westbound lane and then departed the left side of the roadway. V1 went over the left curb and into a private parking area. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Ford Focus SE 4-door was properly parked and driverless facing southwest in the parking lot. Vehicle three (V3), a 2000 Nissan Sentra 4-door was properly parked and driverless facing southwest in the parking space adjacent to V2. The front of V1 impacted the front of V2 and did not impact V3. V2 was pushed sideways and contacted V3, so V3 was not considered as a case vehicle since V1 did not contact it. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene. V3 was not towed and was left in the parking lot. Police Reported Travel Speed is 43 kmph for V1 and 43 kmph for V2.

A seventeen (17) year old male drove V1. The driver stated that he was traveling eastbound in the number one lane at between 48 - 56 kmph (30 - 35 mph) and reached down to change a CD. The vehicle drifted across the westbound lane and went over a curb and struck V2. He said he did not make any avoidance efforts. V2 was pushed into V3 and both were damaged. V1 continued forward after impact and the driver steered the vehicle back onto the roadway. The driver continued forward in the westbound lane and came to a stop approximately 70 meters (230 feet) east of the initial impact with V2. The driver said he traveled the road daily, was in good health and takes no medication. The driver said he had 9 hours of sleep the day of the crash and had been awake about 10.5 hours at the time of the crash. He said he was traveling between 48 - 56 kmph (30 - 35 mph) when he reached down to change the CD.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction.