This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. Both roadways are straight, level and divided by a curbed median. The northbound approach consists of two through lanes, a right turn lane and a left turn lane. The speed limit for this roadway is 89 kmph (55 mph). The eastbound approach consists of two through lanes and a left turn lane. The speed limit for this roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1993 Oldsmobile Cutlass Ciera, was northbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Lincoln LS, was eastbound in lane two. In the intersection, the front of V1 struck the right side of V2. V2 rotated clockwise and the right side struck a signpost in the median east of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-two-year-old female, was on her lunch hour and on her way home from work to meet with and pay a repair person. She was in fair health and familiar with her vehicle and route. This driver stated that she had an injured back and takes an unspecified antibiotic, Percocet, Seroquel, birth control pills and vitamins. She further stated that she felt fatigued due to working twelve-hour shifts and she was in a hurry because she was going to be late getting back to work. She also stated that she did not see V2 until three-to-four seconds prior to the crash.

The driver of V2, a forty-one-year-old female, was traveling with her two young sons. They had been at a friend's house and were on their way home. This driver was talking to her passengers due to one of them needing to use a restroom. She stated that she normally looks both directions prior to crossing an intersection, but did not look this time and did not see V1 prior to the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inattention (i.e. daydreaming)"

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's conversing with her passengers and her inadequate surveillance were associated factors in this crash.