The crash occurred on a north/south two-lane undivided roadway with a 9 percent uphill grade in the southbound direction. This was a straight, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). It was early afternoon on a weekday and the road was wet and the weather was cloudy.

V1, a 1994 Toyota pick-up truck with one occupant, was traveling southbound. V1 fishtailed to the left on the painted white boxes at the hillcrest. V1 driver steered to the right to compensate. The vehicle then fishtailed to the right causing both right side tires to leave the roadway. V1 driver then steered left, re-entered the roadway, crossed over the double-yellow line, traveled across the northbound lane off the road edge when the vehicle struck an embankment before striking a tree. The vehicle then rolled one-quarter turn to the right where it came to final rest on the roadway facing south in the northbound lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1.

The Toyota pick-up truck was driven by a 21 year-old male who suffered lacerations to his hand and right side rib cage. The driver refused medical treatment and was taken home by an officer. The driver stated at the scene he was traveling southbound up the hill when he started to fishtail to the left. In an effort to regain control of the vehicle, he steered to the right when his right side tires left the roadway on the right. The driver then stated he steered to the left to regain control. The vehicle then traveled across the roadway, over the road edge on the left, struck an embankment before striking a tree. The driver stated that his vehicle then rolled onto its side. The driver stated he lost control due to the wet road surface conditions.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was "This vehicle control loss due to traveling too fast for conditions." The Critical reason for the Critical event was a driver related factor; too fast for conditions. Associated factors coded to the driver include overcompensation, a tire deficiency because the tires were worn, and the wet and slick condition of the roadway.