This crash occurred on a 5-lane undivided roadway at an intersection of two shopping plaza exits. There were 2 lanes northbound, 2 lanes southbound, and a center left turn-only lane in both directions. The posted speed limit was 56 KMPH (35 MPH). The roadway was dry and the weather was clear. This crash occurred on a weekday morning. The intersection was controlled by signalized traffic control devices.

Vehicle 1, a 1997 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, was making a left turn out of a shopping plaza on the west side of the intersection. Vehicle 2, a 1993 Oldsmobile Cutlass 4-door, was making a right turn out of a plaza on the east side of the intersection. V1 turned onto the north/south roadway and immediately turned into the first northbound lane. At approximately the same moment, V2 turned right into the first northbound lane. The front left corner of V2 struck the right front door of V1. The driver of V2 then steered hard to the right, went off the roadway and impacted a utility pole with the front of V2. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Honda Civic (V1) was driven by a belted 74-year old male who was not injured. He stated that he made a left turn on a green light and immediately turned into the first northbound lane. He reported that he did not see V2 until impact.

The Critical Pre-crash Event coded to V1 was: This vehicle traveling over the lane line on right side of travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as inadequate surveillance, a driver related error. The driver of V1 admitted to not seeing V2 prior to the crash and should not have entered the first northbound lane until he was certain it was clear. Had he turned into the second northbound lane, the crash would not have occurred. Associated factors coded to this driver include prescription medications to treat high cholesterol and a previous heart attack and unfamiliarity with the roadway, as this was his first time on the road.

The Oldsmobile Cutlass (V2) was driven by a belted 88-year-old female who was checked at the scene for possible injury. This driver stated that she was making a right on red and that V1 was partly in her lane during the turn and she hit his vehicle. She further stated she was looking at V2 while turning the steering wheel to the right after the first impact and hit a utility pole. She stated she might have been scared and panicked. This driver was visibly upset at the scene.

The Critical Pre-crash Event coded to V2 was: Other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane (same direction) over left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to V2. Associated factors coded to this driver include use of over-the-counter medications and vitamins, inadequate surveillance because she never saw V2 prior to impact, and panicking.

Police did not consider alcohol or illegal drugs to be a factor in this crash and ordered no tests for either driver.