The single vehicle, weekend, early afternoon crash occurred off the right side of a straight, level, east-west, undivided 2-lane, rural, bituminous roadway. At the time of the crash it was daylight, clear, and the roadway was dry. The posted speed limit was 80 kmph (50 mph).

V1, a 2004 Chevrolet Malibu 4-door sedan occupied by an 80 year-old male driver and a 72 year-old female passenger, was westbound in lane 1 of the roadway described above. V1 drifted off the roadway to the right and struck a mailbox with its front. V1 then re-entered the roadway and drifted across the centerline into the eastbound lane, drifted back to the right into the westbound lane and then exited the roadway to the right again. V1's front struck another mailbox, continued west off the road to the right and stuck a small tree with its front right. It continued forward and then struck 2 trees >10 cm with its front. V1 came to rest against the tree facing west-northwest. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver, who died 2 days later from his injuries, told his daughter (who was later interviewed) that his blood sugar was low the morning of the crash. She asked him not to go anywhere or if he did, to not take her mother along (the passenger in the crash). He decided to go anyway and went to his grandson's ballgame then was on his way to his son's house when the crash occurred. He doesn't remember much about the crash as he started "blacking out" as he was westbound at about 45 mph. After drifting off the road to the right, he tried to regain control and get back on the road but could not keep the car under control.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was a critical non-performance error: heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act (in this case a low sugar episode for the diabetic driver). Medical records indicated that the driver's blood sugar level was 40, which is extremely low. Some contributing factors include the driver's history of crashes caused by low sugar episodes, his poor state of health (pre-existing conditions consisting of diabetes, dementia and kidney dialysis) and his extensive use of medications daily. The driver also was not very familiar with the roadway and reportedly was routinely fatigued when awakening. The driver had just gotten his driver's license back after a 6-month suspension for causing 2 previous crashes due to low blood sugar episodes.