The crash occurred in the intersection of a multi-lane east/west highway and an undivided north/south roadway. There were 4 eastbound lanes and 4 westbound lanes divided by a grass median. This was a level, bituminous roadway with a slight curve to the left in the westbound direction. It had a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). It was the late evening on a weekday. The roads were dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was moderate.

V1, a 1988 Nissan Pathfinder utility vehicle with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane 4 of the highway, with the intention of turning left at the intersection. V2, a 1996 Chevrolet Tahoe utility vehicle with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane 3 intending to continue straight. V1 entered the intersection on a red signal while V2 was entering the intersection on a green light. The front of V2 struck the right side of V1. After impact, V1 rotated approximately 170 degrees clockwise and struck an embankment located on the southeast corner of the intersection. V1 came to rest on the embankment facing northeast. After impact, V2 spun clockwise about 45 degrees and came to final rest in the middle of the intersection facing south. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Nissan Pathfinder, was driven by a 48-year old male who was airlifted from the scene. Many attempts to contact the driver were unsuccessful. At the scene of the crash, the driver's sister stated that the driver had just left her house 5 minutes before the crash and said he was going home. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for Critical Pre-crash Event was an illegal maneuver, a driver related error. The driver of V1 turned on the red arrow. Due to the lack of interview, no additional factors could be coded to the driver.

V2, the 1996 Chevrolet Tahoe, was driven by a 21-year old female who was transported from the scene due to possible injuries. She stated that as she approached the intersection, the signal was red but then it turned green so she proceeded. She said that V2 entered the intersection just as she was in the middle of it. She said she slammed on the brakes but it was too late and she struck V2. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to the driver of V2.