This three-vehicle collision occurred in the morning daylight hours .The collision occurred in the northbound lanes on an interstate highway. The roadway is a ten-lane divided highway with five travel lanes in each direction. The roadway is straight and level with concrete paving. The weather was clear and the travel lanes were dry. The posted speed limit for the roadway is 97 kmph (60 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Jeep Grand Cherokee driven by a twenty two (22) year old male was headed north in lane four. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Buick Regal sedan driven by a eighty two (82) year old male, was ahead of V1 in lane four. Vehicle three (V3), a 2004 Ford F-250 towing a utility trailer driven by a forty two (42) year old male, was traveling northbound in lane two. There was a non-contact vehicle ahead of V2; that slowed for unknown reasons. When V2 slowed or stopped, the driver of V1 attempted to avoid hitting the rear of V2 by braking and steering left. The front right of V1 hit the left rear of V2, causing V2 to rotate clockwise, across lane three and impacting V3 in lane two. The front left corner of V1 impacted the front left corner of V3's trailer. V2 then rotated counterclockwise side slapping the left side of V3. V1 and V2 were both towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with lower steady speed. The critical reason for the critical event was assigned to V1 as a driver related factor: too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others (specified as: driver did not expect the vehicle in front of him to decelerate & was traveling at too great a speed to successfully avoid the collision).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle.