This two-vehicle crash occurred at an urban four-legged intersection. There were stop signs for east/west traffic and no control devices for north/south traffic. This roadway contains three lanes; one north lane and one south lane divided by a two-way left-turn lane. Southbound approach is straight and level while northbound approach has an uphill +3.6% grade and is level. The posted speed limit was 72 kph (45 mph) with no advisory limit. Setting was early evening hours on a weekday. Conditions were daylight, sunny, clear and dry. Traffic flow was heavy at the time.

V1 is a 1996 Nissan Maxima, four-door with one occupant traveling southbound in lane two, the left turn lane. V2 is a 2004 Jeep Wrangler, compact utility with one occupant accelerating northbound in lane one. V1 was stopped in his travel lane waiting for a break in northbound traffic. V1 couldn't see northbound traffic due to cars stopped in front waiting to turn left at the traffic signal. V1 turned left and was struck on the right side by the front-end of V2 in the intersection (event 1). V2 applied its brakes leaving 5.4 meters (17.7 feet) of skid marks and steered right to avoid the collision. After event 1, the right side of V1 contacted the left side of V2 (event 2). V1 then deflected left and traveled 15.2 meters (50 feet) after impact and came to final rest facing north in the northbound lane. V2 then deflected right, traveled 14.2 meters (47 feet) and came to final rest facing east. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 28 year-old male who suffered minor injuries and was treated by EMS on-scene. He was on a leisurely trip to his friend's house where he planned to hang out with his friends and drink beer. He had never been to his friend's house before, nor had he driven this roadway before. Since he was unfamiliar with the area, he printed off Map Quest directions to ensure he didn't get lost on the way. He reported being stopped in the left turn lane with his directional signal on for 5-10 seconds prior to proceeding. Due to heavy evening rush hour congestion, the left turn lane that he was in was backed up due to the signal-controlled light ahead. His intention was to turn left into the driveway of his friend's townhouse. He started to inch forward to try and see around the stopped cars in front of him. He didn't see any cars coming toward him, so he decided to turn left. As he was turning, he looked right just in time to see V2 contact his right side. He had no time to make any avoidance maneuvers. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling right side damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 is "This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "Turned with an obstructed view"-a driver error. The vehicles stopped in front of V1 caused him not to be able to see V2 traveling toward him. The stopped vehicles were coded as a sightline restriction. An impending problem masked by traffic flow pattern was coded as other recognition factor. The driver was unfamiliar with the area and this was his first time ever driving this roadway; which was coded as an experience factor. He was listening to his radio prior to the crash, a non-driving activity. The rush hour congestion was coded as a traffic flow interruption factor.

The driver of V2 is a 30 year-old male who suffered abrasions to his left arm but did not require transport for treatment. He left his residence to go to the Wendy's drive-thru for dinner, which was approximately 3 miles away. He picked up his dinner and was en-route back home to eat. He reported being stopped for a red light in lane one. His light changed to green, so he proceeded to accelerate through the intersection. He was almost at his travel speed of 64 kph (40 mph) when V1 unexpectedly turned left into his path from the opposite direction. He applied the brakes causing them to lock up and steered right just prior to impact, but a crash was unavoidable. His vehicle was towed from the scene with non-disabling front-end damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 is "Other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over left lane line." The Critical Reason was "Not coded to this vehicle." This driver locked up his NON-ABS brakes and steered right to avoid this crash. An impending problem masked by traffic flow pattern was coded as other recognition factors due to the backed up traffic obstructing V2's view of V1. The vehicles stopping the opposite direction were also coded as a sightline restriction for V2 as they caused this driver not to be able to see V1 until he turned left. The rush hour congestion was also coded as traffic flow interruption factor.