Case 2007-43-157

This two-vehicle crash occurred in the afternoon of a weekday in the middle of a 4-way intersection. The intersection consists of four multi-lane roadways controlled by a properly functioning traffic signal. The main thoroughfare is a multi-lane divided roadway that runs north and south. The roads are straight, flat, and have posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The conditions were clear, dry and daylight. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

V1, a 2000 Ford Mustang with one occupant, was northbound in lane four stopped at the intersection where it intended to turn left. V2, a 1997 Ford Ranger with one occupant, was southbound in lane one intending to go straight. V1 entered the intersection when its protected left-turn signal turned green. V2 failed to stop when its signal turned red and both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time. The front of V2 struck the right side of V1 causing disabling damage to both vehicles. V2 left approximately 11 meters of precrash skid marks in its lane indicating it tried to stop before the collision. Both drivers were transported from the scene for minor injuries and both vehicles were towed due to damage.

The driver of V1 is a 17-year-old female that stopped at this intersection waiting for her signal to green. As soon as the signal turned green, she entered the intersection and began to turn left where V2 that ran its red light and struck her. She reports that she saw the truck approaching the intersection but figured it would stop because its signal was red.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded false assumption (i.e., assumed that other driver would yield right-of-way), An associated factor code to this driver was inexperienced driver since she was driving with a license permit.

The driver of V2 is a 20-year-old female that was driving her mother's 1997 Ford Ranger to a self-storage facility where she was to meet her mom and load the truck with furniture. As she was traveling south toward this intersection she said she saw northbound V1 begin to enter the intersection so she honked her horn and began to slow down. As this driver was about to enter this intersection, she realized that V1 was going to turn in front of her so she slammed on the brake pedal. She cannot recall anything after that, only that she was in an ambulance shortly after the crash. She said she did not notice what colors the traffic signal was when she entered the intersection but she thinks it was green. This was only the second time she ever drove her mother's truck and it was the first time she drove through this intersection.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction - over the left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors include driver inattention (future event: moving), false assumption that other driver would yield right-of-way, failed to stop for TCD, inexperience with this vehicle and not familiar with roadway.