This two vehicle daytime mid-afternoon collision occurred at a four-leg intersection comprised by a north/south roadway and an east/west roadway. The north/south roadway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of seven lanes. The east/west roadway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of five lanes. Both roadways are designated 56 kmph (35 mph) zones. The intersection is controlled by on-color signals that were working properly at the time of the collision. The intersection is also equipped with cameras that photograph drivers that run red lights. Unfortunately, the cameras only photograph vehicles traveling on the north/south roadway.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Toyota RAV-4 driven by a thirty (30) year old female, was traveling westbound in the number three left turn lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 Mitsubishi 3000GT two-door hatchback driven by a forty seven (47) year old male, was traveling eastbound in the number two lane. As V1 turned left, the driver of V2 steered his vehicle to the right. The front plane of V2 contacted the right plane of V1 in the number one eastbound lane. V1 came to rest facing the southeast corner of the intersection. V2 came to rest facing southbound on the southern crosswalk. The police report indicated V1 received moderate damage and was not towed; however, the on-scene researcher observed the vehicle being towed from its final rest. V2 received moderate damage and was not towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions. This driver was listening to his radio and observed V2 as it approached the intersection from about 30 meters (100 feet) from the intersection. The driver was in a hurry because she was late picking his daughter up from school. She falsely assumed that the other driver would yield the right of way to her vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. If this driver would not have steered his vehicle to the right into the adjacent lane, the crash may have been avoided.