This two-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of a three-way intersection. There were two each eastbound/westbound lanes intersected by one northbound lane. The east/westbound lanes were non-physically divided; only double yellow lines were used to separate these opposing directions. Movements through the intersection were controlled by standard and overhead signalized traffic control devices. The bituminous covered roadways were dry, level, and straight and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit for all directions was 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during the mid-afternoon daylight hours. The roadway was free of any defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.

Vehicle one, a 1998 Nissan Maxima 4-door sedan, was traveling westbound through the intersection when it contacted with its front the right side of vehicle two, a 2006 Chevrolet Impala 4-door sedan, traveling northbound through the same intersection. After the initial impact, V1 traveled several feet and rotated slightly clockwise and jumped the northwest curb edge and contacted with its left front the corner building wall where it again contacted with its right side the right side of V2 coming to final rest facing northwestward against the wall on top of the curb. Vehicle two, after the initial contact with V1 rotated clockwise 180 degrees and jumped the northwest curb edge and with its back contacted a traffic control device pole detaching it from its base. V then was contacted by V1 right side to right side where it also came to final rest on top of the curb along side V1 facing southward. The damages to both V1 and V2 were severe and both were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver and single occupant of V1, a 39-year old female, said she was traveling westbound just after leaving a business appointment and had driven 4-miles when she approached the intersection, she thought the light was green so she continued driving and hit the police car. 'She never saw V2 coming, they said V2 had his lights and siren on, but she didn't see or hear either.' She was traveling approximately 64 kmph (40 mph). She explained, she didn't think it was her fault; he (police car) was speeding and going too fast, especially for these city streets. She may have been too focused on where she was going and other issues in her life. She was transported to the hospital with non-life threatening injuries.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 is: "this vehicle crossing over (passing through) the intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded to this vehicle is: "inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see)”, a recognition error. Associated factor coded to the driver of this vehicle includes: possible inattention/ distraction: had an argument within the past six hours, illegal maneuver: failed to stop at a TCD.

The driver of V2, a 36-year old male and single occupant, refused an interviewed. He's a police officer and police policy will not allowed him to comment. He was transported to the hospital by medics with non-life threatening injuries.

An on-scene witness said he was standing on the sidewalk of the southeast corner facing north said he saw the whole thing. V2, the police vehicle, was traveling north with its siren and flashing lights on, entered the intersection on the full green traffic light and as it got to about the other side near the northbound traffic, he saw the other vehicle (V1) speeding through the intersection on the red light. She was going about 80 kmph (50 mph) or more and she smashed right into the right side of the police car and then hit the wall and traffic light pole. She had to hear if not see the police car's lights flashing. This is, however a loud and noisy area, maybe she didn't.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 is: "other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path". "The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. There was no interview with the driver of V2; therefore there are no associated factors.