The crash occurred in the T-intersection of two roadways. The east/west roadway was two-way with one lane in each direction. The southbound roadway was one-way with two lanes of travel. This was a straight, level, bituminous roadway that has a speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). It was daylight and clear with no adverse conditions. It was during the evening hours of a weekday.

V1, a 2003 Toyota Matrix four door hatchback with one occupant was traveling southbound in lane one. V2, a 2004 Toyota 4-Runner sport utility vehicle with two occupants was traveling westbound in lane one. V2 came to a stop at the intersection attempted to make a left turn at the intersection when the front of V1 impacted the right side of V2. The driver of V1 attempted to change lanes to the right, and braked with lock-up. Both vehicles came to a final rest shortly after the point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Toyota Matrix, was driven by a 28-year old male who reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. The driver stated to the Police that he was traveling southbound when the driver of V2 disregarded the stop sign. The driver was issued a citation for driving with a learner's permit, driving without proof of insurance, and driving an unregistered vehicle.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V1 was, "Other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, turning into same direction". The Critical Reason for the Critical event was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to the driver was a sightline restriction in the form of a building was coded as a highway related factor. The other possible Associated factors were coded unknown because no interview was obtained.

V2, the Toyota 4-Runner, was driven by a 40 year-old female who reported no injuries. An 11 year-old female occupant in the front/right position also reported no injuries. The driver stated that she was on her way to visit her in-laws, and as she stopped at the intersection, looked and did not see any cars coming, then proceeded to make a left turn. As she was making a left turn she was impacted by V1.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V2 was "This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical event was coded as a Driver related factor, “inadequate surveillance (looked but did not see)”. A Recognition factor was that the driver was conversing with her daughter and a sightline factor in the form of a building was coded as a highway related factor.