The single vehicle crash occurred on the right shoulder of a three lane northbound highway including a temporary merge lane on the left side of the highway. Thirty-two meters prior to the crash, highway cones began blocking lane one and merging traffic into lane two. Parked on the right shoulder, ten meters past the first traffic cone was a parked flashing left arrow sign (mobile arrow board). The highway's north and southbound lanes were divided by a wide tree-covered landmass. There was a 2 percent downhill slope in the northbound direction on this dry, straight road with a posted speed of 80 kmph (50 mph). There was a 4-meter wide shoulder on the right of the road with a downward slope of 5.5 percent and a guardrail along the right side of the shoulder. It was early afternoon on a weekday. Prior to the crash, it had been incidence free, since the highway department set up the traffic cones and the mobile arrow board during the early morning hours.

V1, a 2005 Chevrolet Tahoe utility vehicle, was driven by a 50 year-old female traveling with her 50 year-old male friend. The driver stated that she had left home 35 minutes prior to the crash attempting to take her friend to the airport. She had been traveling north in lane one at a rate of 72 kmph (45 mph). She saw the large flashing arrow sign (mobile arrow board) ahead on the right shoulder warning drivers to merge but did not expect that lane one would be blocked so abruptly prior to the flashing arrow sign. Access to lane two was blocked by traffic, forcing another vehicle (a non-contact vehicle) to remain stopped at the traffic cone in lane one. In a successful attempt to avoid the non-contact vehicle, the driver of V1 braked and steered right over the traffic cones and onto the right shoulder before crashing the front of V1 into the arrow board. V1 pushed the mobile arrow board 15 meters before coming to rest on the right shoulder facing north. The driver was uninjured but the passenger was transported for arm and wrist injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

A driver of the non-contact vehicle stated that he was forced to stop in lane one at the second traffic cone because traffic in lane two would not allow him to merge left. Using his rear-view mirror, he saw V1 "barreling" towards him. In an attempt to avoid a collision with V1 and since access to the left was blocked, he drove straight, over the traffic cone, north in lane one as fast as he could. As he neared the flashing mobile arrow board V1 was almost on him, then he heard V1's brakes and saw it suddenly veer right, and crash into the arrow board. Both V1 and the arrow board continued another 35 feet before coming to rest.

The Pre-Crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side." The Critical Reason for the Pre-Crash Event was "inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)." Associated factors for the driver include medication for high blood pressure, an exterior factor due to focusing on the sign, and traveling too fast in a work zone.