The crash occurred in the intersection of two similar roadways: two lanes in each direction with a left turn-only lane in between at the intersection. Both roadways were straight, level, bituminous roadways with a posted speed of 72 kmph (45 mph). It was early evening on a weekday while daylight and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic was flowing.

V1, a 2001 GMC Sierra heavy-duty pick-up truck with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane three. V1 was intending to turn left at the intersection. V2, a 2003 Chevrolet Malibu four door sedan with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane two. V2 was intending to go straight through the intersection. The driver of V1 stated that she decelerated, but did not stop before initiating her turn. She also advised that she did not see V2. The driver of V2 stated that two vehicles had turned left ahead of V1 but she thought V1 would yield the right-of-way. V2 attempted to apply the brakes when she saw V1 begin to turn but could not stop in time. The front of V2 contacted the right rear of V1. V1 spun 180 degrees clockwise before coming to final rest in the southbound lanes facing south. V2 also rotated clockwise and came to final rest in the intersection facing north. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the GMC pick-up was driven by a 48-year old female who reported no injuries and refused treatment. She stated that she was coming from her sister's house and was on her way to her nephew's house. She stated that she had decelerated to between 50-64 kmph (31-40 mph) when she initiated the left turn. She did not attempt any avoidance actions because she did not see V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for the driver of V1 was: This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was a driver related error: Inadequate surveillance (failed to look, looked but did not see) because she did not see V2 prior to impact. Some associated factors for the driver of V1 included the use of prescription medication for depression, the fact that she rarely drove on this roadway and that she was unfamiliar with the vehicle (had only driven it 2-5 times).

V2, the Chevrolet Malibu, was driven by a 23-year old female who reported minor injuries and was transported to a local trauma facility. She stated that she had left work and was on her way home. She stated that she had been traveling between 41-50 mph when she took the avoidance action of applying the brakes. She could not avoid V1.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for the driver of V2 was: Other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction-over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to this vehicle was a false assumption that V1 would yield the right-of-way. Also coded to V2 was traveling too fast, as the vehicle's EDR reading showed that five seconds prior to impact, V2 was traveling at 55 mph, 10 miles per hour over the posted speed limit.