This crash occurred in the north and southbound lanes of a 4-way intersection. There were three northbound lanes turning into two lanes after the intersection, and there were three southbound lanes, turning into two lanes after the intersection. The roadway was straight, level, and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). Conditions were clear.

V1 was a 1994 Oldsmobile Delta 88, driven by an 88 year-old male. V1 was traveling southbound in lane two when the driver suffered a seizure. V1 crossed into the northbound lanes, bouncing off of the west curb, and returning to the southbound lanes. The vehicle crossed through the intersection and sideswiped V2, a 1985 Chevrolet Citation on its left side, causing minor damage. V1 then proceeded to impact the front of V3, a 1988 Freightliner heavy truck, causing severe damage to the front left of both vehicles. Vehicles 2&3 were both stopped at the intersection awaiting a green light. A 20 year-old male drove V2, and a 49 year-old male drove V3. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a driver related factor, heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act. The driver of V1 has a lengthy medical history, and according to the medical report suffered a "grand mal seizure." The driver has a history of seizures, recently had surgery to install a pacemaker, and suffers from several other illnesses.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associated factors for this vehicle.

The Critical Precrash Event for V3 was coded other, not involved in first harmful event. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associated factors for this vehicle.