This two-vehicle crash occurred in a rural area on a 3-lane asphalt roadway with various curves and elevations. The single eastbound lane curves right and is downhill. The #1 westbound lane curves left, is uphill and has guardrail bordering it. The speed limit is 89 kmph (55 mph) with an advisory speed for the right curve of 80 kmph (50 mph) for the eastbound traffic. At the time of the crash it was raining heavily and water had accumulated on the roadway. The rain had begun suddenly which is typical during summer afternoons in this area.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Toyota Corolla sedan, was eastbound negotiating the right curve when it began to slide to the left on the rain-covered roadway. It crossed the eastbound lane and the westbound lanes forward and to the left where its left front-end plane contacted the left side plane of Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Chevrolet Silverado K-2500 pickup. V1 rotated counter-clockwise to the right and came to rest in the eastbound lane facing east. V2 came to rest in the area of impact. The left front wheel of V2 was torn off by the impact. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1 and 89 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a fifty two (52) year-old male, stated the rain came on very quickly and very heavily. He was going downhill and had let off of the gas just before his vehicle began to slide. He attempted to brake and steer right with no success. He was traveling between 72 and 80 kmph (45 - 50 mph) when he lost control on the rain-covered road. He is familiar with the roadway and his vehicle was in good working order.

The driver of V2, a sixty two (62) year-old male, was traveling with his wife and a friend. He stated the rain was pouring down when he saw V1 coming towards him. He slowed down almost to a stop and steered as far right towards the guardrail as he could in order to avoid V1. He is familiar with the roadway and his vehicle was in good working order.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical event was assigned to V1 and coded as an environmental related factor: slick roads (low friction due to ice, loose debris, any other reason).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction, over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.