This four-vehicle crash occurred at a four-way intersection controlled by tri-light signals for all directions of travel. The eastbound and westbound roadway consists of two through lanes in each direction that are separated by a left turn lane. There is also one right turn lane for the westbound direction at the intersection. The southbound roadway consists of one through lane that was not open, a left turn only lane, and a right turn only lane. There are two northbound lanes at the intersection. The roadway located to the south of the intersection is not open for traffic and was closed off by barricades. The speed limit on the east/west bound roadway is posted 89 kmph (55 mph). Both roadways were straight, level and constructed of bituminous asphalt. There were no adverse atmospheric or road conditions at the time of this afternoon daylight crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Lincoln 4 door sedan with three occupants, was eastbound in the number 3 left-turn lane approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Buick 4 door sedan with two occupants, was traveling westbound in the number one lane approaching the intersection. Vehicle three (V3), a 2002 Suzuki Grand Vitara with one occupant was stopped in the southbound number three left-turn lane. Vehicle four (V4), a 2004 Chevrolet Silverado pickup with two occupants, was stopped in the southbound number one right-turn lane at the intersection. V1 entered the intersection turning left and was struck on the right side by the front of V2. After the impact with V2, V1 entered a clockwise rotation, slid across the intersection on a northwest trajectory and collided back to front with V3. V1 continued to slide and rotate and collided front to front with V4, then came to final rest at that approximate point of impact facing generally northeast. After impact with V2, V2 entered a clockwise rotation, traveled through the intersection on a northwest trajectory, struck the curb at the northwest corner of the intersection, exited the roadway at that location, then had a frontal impact with a metal electrical box and came to rest at that approximate point of impact facing generally northwest. All occupants of V1 and V2 were transported from the scene by EMS. The second row right passenger of V2, a 57-year old female expired as a result of this crash. The first row right passenger of V2, an 80-year old female, also expired as a result of this crash. V1 and V2 were towed from the crash scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The V1 driver, a 79-year old male, told police that he was traveling eastbound in the left turn lane, began to slow down intending to turn left, noticed V2 approaching from the opposite direction, but misjudged the speed of V2 and turned left at the intersection. The driver of V1 could not be located for an interview. Medical records for the driver of V1 had a BAC test result of 0.082. The medical records also indicated this driver takes the medication Clestoff for a heart condition.

The V2 driver, a 94-year old male, told police that he was traveling westbound in the number one lane approaching the intersection when a blue car turned in front of him. He added that he did not have time to react. He said that he was traveling between 72-89 kmph (45-55 mph). Medical records for the driver of V2 indicated that he takes the medication Flomax, daily aspirin and daily vitamins. The records also indicated the driver is a retired miner; however, he currently runs an RV park. It is not known how many hours per week he works running the RV park.

The V3 driver, a 31 year old female, said that she had just left work 2-3 minutes before the crash and was stopped in the left turn lane at the intersection. She added that she saw both vehicles coming from opposite directions approaching the intersection, and said that V1 turned left in front of V2 without slowing down. Finally, she said that after V1 and V2 struck each other, V1 then struck her vehicle and subsequently struck V4. She said that after the impact. The right front door of V1 came open. The V3 driver stated that she was on her way home and that she had a headache at the time of the crash, but added that she is in good health and does not take any medication. She said that she knew the V1 driver and that he is a regular customer at the restaurant where she is employed. V3 was driven from the scene.

The V4 driver, an 81-year-old male, said that he was stopped in the right turn lane and was struck by V1. V4 was driven from the scene.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed. The V1 driver told police that he did see V2 approaching but misjudged the speed of V2 as it was approaching. There were no sight line restrictions noted at the scene.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over the left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to V2.

V3 & V4 were not involved in the first harmful event. V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. V4 is not a case vehicle for this crash.