The crash occurred on a 5-lane divided roadway on the approach to an intersection. The crash occurred in the westbound left turn lanes that lead to the highway. The road was straight, level and bituminous. The posted speed limit was 56kmph (35 mph). It was the early morning on a weekday during rush hour. Traffic flow was moderate to heavy.

V1 was a 1993 Ford Explorer utility vehicle driven by a 34-year old female who was traveling with three of her children. V1 was traveling behind V2, a 2000 Nissan Maxima 4-door sedan. V2 was traveling behind V3, a 2003 GMC Yukon utility vehicle. V1 entered lane 4 (a left turn-only lane) when traffic had slowed down due to a traffic signal that had changed from green to red. V1 failed to slow in time and struck V2 in the rear and then V2 lunged forward and struck V3 in the rear. An 11-year old male in V1 was not restrained in the left rear of the vehicle and was injured from the crash. He was transported from the scene. The driver stated that she was approaching the intersection and saw traffic moving along. She thought that the traffic signal was still green and stated that all of a sudden traffic slowed almost to a halt. She then struck V2 in the rear. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, the Nissan Maxima, was driven by a 23-year old male. No interview could be obtained from this driver but he told police that he was in front of V1 and when he slowed down he was struck from the rear. The driver of V2 complained of neck pain and was transported due to possible injuries.

V3, the GMC Yukon, was driven by a 28-year old male. This vehicle left the scene shortly after the crash. The driver refused to talk or answer any questions.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was other vehicle in lane, other vehicle decelerating. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was driver inattention. Associated factors include following too closely to respond to unexpected actions of others, a false assumption that the other vehicles would continue to proceed, and traffic congestion.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Without an interview, the only associated factor that could be coded was traffic congestion.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event and therefore, no Critical Pre-crash Event or Critical Reason was coded. Without an interview, the only associated factor that could be coded was traffic congestion.