The crash occurred on a residential road that was a two-way, two-lane road that ran north/south. There was an uninvolved side-road that intersected from the east just south of the crash area but north of a curve right (east) on the northbound approach that had a measured radius of 574 meters and was super-elevated to 4.4%. The southbound approach to the crash area had a residence with a grass front yard and private drive also on the east side of the road. This approach was straight and both approaches were level. The crash occurred in the early afternoon on a weekday under daylight and dry conditions. The road had a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph).

V1 was a 1990 Mazda MX-6 coupe that was originally traveling north on the road and then she left the road to turn around on her front yard on the east side of the road. She re-entered the road to head south but was in the northbound lane, V1's front impacted the front of V2, a 2001 Dodge Neon that was traveling north on the road. V2 had the chance to apply its brakes and leave fifteen meters of pre-impact skids. V1 came to rest 5.9 meters north of impact facing east with the rear of V1 partially off the west side of the road. V2 came to rest facing north and slightly west about 3.2 meters north of impact with its left side partially over the double yellow painted centerline. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a thirty-nine-year-old-female who was listed as sustaining possible injuries in the crash but was not transported for treatment. The police indicated that her use of seat belts was unknown. Her two seven-year-old-daughters were transported to an area hospital with possible injuries. They were both seated on either side of the second row. Their safety equipment was also listed as unknown on the police report. The driver stated that she was heading to her house to get something she forgot and remembered she was running late taking her girls to a friends house. She turned off the road onto her front lawn and turned around and got back on the road when the red car (V2) came flying head-on into her..

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane traveling in opposite direction". The Critical Reason was an "inadequate surveillance". The driver was also coded as having looked but did not see and inattentive, thought focus unknown. She was in a hurry due to running late to drop her kids off at a friends place. Tire deficiency was coded because two of her tires were bald and the other two tires had 2 mm of tread.

V2 was driven by a forty-three-year-old-male who was listed as sustaining possible injuries in the crash but was not transported for treatment. The police indicated that his use of seat belts was unknown. His fourteen-year-old daughter in the right front seat was coded similarly. He was on his way home from picking his daughter up at skating practice and was heading north. He was driving about 72 kmph (45 mph) and she (V1) just came out from the right side and turned head-on into him. He locked up his brakes but hit her vehicle.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was “other motor vehicle in lane traveling in opposite direction”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Too fast, reason unknown was coded to this driver as he was admittedly traveling at approximately 72 kmph (45 mph) (plus) in a thirty mile per hour zone. No other contributing factors were coded to this vehicle.