This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. Both roadways are one-way and straight. The northbound approach is level and consists of one through lane, one through/left turn lane and one left turn lane. The westbound approach has a downhill grade and consists of four through lanes. The speed limit for this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions. There are several large trees and a building on the southeast corner of the intersection and there were vehicles parked on the left side of the westbound approach lanes.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Dodge Caravan, was northbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Chrysler Pacifica, was westbound in lane three. In the intersection, the front of V2 struck the right side of V1. V1 rotated clockwise and rolled over to the left one quarter-turn. The left side of V1 struck the curb in the northwest corner of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-seven-year-old female, was on her way from her home to a hospital for physical therapy. She was well rested and familiar with her vehicle and route. This driver has depression and takes the medications Lamictal, Trazodone, Seroquel, Lexapro and Abilify. She stated that she was thinking about her appointment and her personal concerns regarding her current lack of employment. This driver also stated that she did not see V2 prior to the crash.

The driver of V2, a forty-eight-year-old male, was on his way from work to lunch. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that he was thinking about work issues prior to the crash. He did not see V1 until just prior to the crash and applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inattention (i.e. daydreaming)."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."

The vision restriction created by the building and trees on the southeast corner of the intersection was an associated factor in this crash.