This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The north/south trafficway is straight, level and divided by a grass median. The southbound lanes consist of two through lanes, a left turn lane and a right turn lane. The speed limit for this roadway is 89 kmph (55 mph). The roadway on the west side of the north/south trafficway is undivided and consists of one lane in each direction and a left turn lane. The eastbound approach lanes are curved to the left (the radius of curvature is 750 meters) and have an uphill grade. The speed limit for this roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Jeep Cherokee, was southbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Ford Escort, was stopped eastbound in lane two. V2 entered the intersection turning left and the left side was struck by the front of V1. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1 and 89 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-three-year-old female, had been moving for the previous two hours and was on her way from new house to her old house. She travels this route daily. This driver has a seizure disorder and takes Amphetamine, Clonazepam and Alprazolam. This driver stated that she saw V2 stopped at the intersection and thought that it would remain stopped. She applied the brakes when V2 entered the intersection.

The driver of V2, a fifty-one-year-old male, was on his way from his home to church with his fifty-one-year-old wife. He was well rested and comfortable with his vehicle and passenger. He travels this route daily. This driver has high blood pressure and sleep apnea and takes an unspecified blood pressure medication. He stated that he proceeded into the intersection when the traffic signal turned green and never saw V1 prior to the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's inadequate surveillance, false assumption and failure to obey a traffic control device were associated factors in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)."