This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-leg intersection with traffic lights for controls. Eastbound is divided with two through lanes and two-left turn lanes. Westbound is divided with one right turn lane, two through lanes and one left turn lane. Through the area, the roadway curves to the south with a radius of 750 meters (2460 feet). The roadway was bituminous, downhill for eastbound travel, uphill for westbound travel and dry, with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). It was early morning before dawn with light traffic flow. The roadway is illuminated.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Dodge Dakota pickup truck with one occupant, was eastbound in lane one, negotiating the right curve. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Toyota Prius with one occupant, was westbound in lane four, turning left on the left curve. V1 entered the intersection on a red light at the same time V2 was in the intersection making the left turn on a green arrow. The front of V2 struck the front of V1. V1 ran off the southeast corner of the intersection and impacted a metal fence with its front. V1 continued eastbound on the side of the road and came to final rest on the southeast side of the intersection facing east on its wheels near the fence. V2 rotated approximately ninety degrees coming to rest on its wheels facing southeast in lane one of the eastbound travel lane in the intersection. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Neither driver was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-seven year-old male stated he entered the intersection and V2 turned in front of him. He stated he attempted to brake and steer right. Little is known about this driver, as he would not return the researcher's phone calls to finish the interview.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. A critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle. This driver ran the red light at the intersection.

The driver of V2, a forty-nine year-old female had just left home and was driving to work. She was very familiar with the vehicle, drives the roadway daily and was well rested. She has asthma and takes Albuterol and Pulamcort on a regular basis. She stated she saw two pedestrians coming across the street, after the arrow came on. She waited a little to see what they were going to do and then proceeded with her turn. She did not detect V1 prior to impact. She was stopped 5-10 seconds prior to initiating the left turn.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at the intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V2 as a driver related factor: external distraction. The driver was focused on the two pedestrians and failed to check for oncoming traffic before she attempted the left turn.