The crash occurred on a residential roadway that was near an industrial park. The undivided road ran east/west and had two lanes. It was level with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The roadway was straight in the pre-crash area and then began a slight curve to the north (left). There was a negatively graded side-slope off the right side of the road measuring 18.4 percent. This led into a drainage ditch that was about 4 meters wide with the upslope measuring 16.7 percent. The south edge of the ditch was lined with shrubs and small trees. Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight and dry in the early afternoon on a weekday.

V1 was a 1998 Volkswagen Jetta 4-door sedan traveling east on the roadway when it encountered a non-contact vehicle traveling west in the eastbound lane. To avoid the non-contact vehicle, V1 swerved to its left crossing into the westbound lane and then in an attempt to recover, swerved right. These sharp steering maneuvers sent V1 into a clockwise yaw and it crossed over the eastbound lane and departed the right side of the road, scraping its undercarriage on the road in the process (event 1). V1 entered the ditch and impacted some shrubs with its front (event 2) and began to further rotate clockwise. It then tripped and rolled (event 3) to its left. The roll was interrupted when the right side of V1 impacted a tree and embankment on the south side of the ditch. V1 came to rest on its top/left side facing west and parallel to the road at the road's edge (approximately 6 meters roll distance). V1 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

V1 was driven by a belted seventeen-year-old male whose airbags did deploy in the crash. He was transported to an area hospital for treatment of non-incapacitating injuries by EMS. He was on his way home from a friend's house at the time of the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle control loss due to traveling too fast for conditions. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as overcompensation. Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include traveling too fast, driver inexperience, and a roadway related factor because the roadway had no shoulders.