The crash occurred in an intersection controlled by a traffic signal. The east/west roadway was an undivided 5-lane, level, bituminous roadway. It curved to the right with a radius of curvature of 1,406 meters and a superelevation of 1 percent. The posted speed limit was 56 KMPH (35 MPH). The north/south roadway was undivided with three lanes of travel and a posted speed limit of 89 KMPH (55 MPH). The weather was clear, the roadway dry, and it was dark but lighted at the time of this early evening weekend crash. Traffic flow was normal for that time of day.

V1, a 1989 Chevrolet Caprice Classic 4-door sedan, was traveling north in the second lane approaching the intersection. V2, a 2006 Chevrolet Malibu 4-door sedan, was traveling east on the curved 5-lane roadway in the second lane (with arrows indicating straight only) approaching the intersection. V1 entered the intersection to turn left and was struck in the front by the front of V2. V1 rotated slightly clockwise and came to rest facing in a northeasterly direction. V2 rotated slightly counterclockwise and came to rest facing in a northeasterly direction. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Chevrolet Caprice Classic, was driven by a belted 24-year-old male who was not injured. No additional information was obtained due to the driver being unable to be contacted or located.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle turning left at the intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was an unknown type of driver error. This was chosen because the police indicated that the driver had failed to yield the right of way to V2. Due to the lack of interview, the only associated factor that could be coded was an illegal maneuver due to going through the red light.

V2, the Chevrolet Malibu, was driven by a belted 94-year-old male who was transported, treated and released for complaint of pain. The driver's daughter (who was also following behind V2) stated that they had just come from a dinner less than a mile away. As they approached the intersection, the light was green and they proceeded without slowing. Her father stated that the other car was suddenly in front of him and he had no chance to brake or turn to avoid the collision. He considered himself in good health, wore glasses for an unknown condition and also wore a hearing aid. He took medication for a prostrate condition and aspirin.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from a crossing street, turning in the opposite direction. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. Police did not consider either alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no tests.