This crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a six-lane roadway undivided roadway. There were three eastbound lanes, two westbound lanes and a center turning lane. This was a straight, level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). It was early evening on a weekday and the skies were clear and the roadway was dry. Traffic flow was congested in the second and third eastbound lanes, lane one was clear and freely moving.

V1, a 2007 Honda Pilot SUV with one occupant, was stopped in the turning lane waiting to turn left into a parking lot. V2, a 1996 Audi A4 sedan with one occupant, was traveling in lane one. V3, a 2004 Chevrolet Tahoe SUV with four occupants, was stopped in the parking lot entrance waiting to turn right. V1 proceeded to make a left turn across three lanes of traffic after being waved on by vehicles stopped in lane two and three. V1 did not observe V2 traveling in lane one and they impacted at the parking lot entrance. V1's path to final rest caused the vehicle to also impact a stop sign knocking it over and contacting V3 who was waiting to turn right. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

V1, the Honda Pilot, was driven by a 50-year-old male who reported no injuries. No interview could be obtained. The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a driver related factor, false assumption of other's action. Associated factors include rush hour congestion and a sightline restriction.

V2, the 1996 Audi A4, was driven by a 27-year-old male who reported no injuries. The driver stated he did not see the SUV coming across his lane until it was too late. The Critical Precrash Event was coded other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors include rush hour congestion and a sightline restriction.

V3, the 2004 Chevy Tahoe, was driven by a 36-year-old female who reported no injuries. There were three other occupants in the vehicle who also reported no injuries. The Critical Precrash Event was coded as other, not involved in first harmful event. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associated factors coded to V3.