This two-vehicle crash occurred at a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The east/west roadway has a two-way, center left turn lane. The westbound approach is curved to the left, has an uphill grade and consists of two through lanes. Prior to the intersection, the roadway becomes straight, has a right turn lane and a four percent downhill grade. The speed limit on this roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph). It was dark with streetlights on at the time of the crash with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1985 Chevrolet Monte Carlo, was westbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Chevrolet Tahoe, was westbound in lane one. As they neared the intersection, V1 changed lanes to the right. V2 stopped at the intersection and the front of V1 struck the back of V2. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a fifty-year-old female, had just left work and was planning to stop at a fast food restaurant on the way home. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she was looking in her rearview mirror to ensure that she could make a safe lane change. When she returned her focus forward, she saw that V2 had stopped for the signal and she then applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The driver of V2, a fifty-eight-year-old female, was on her way from work to a store. She was healthy and familiar with her vehicle and her route. This driver stated that she felt fatigued when she left work. She further stated that she did not see V1 prior to the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane; other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: external distraction.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.