The crash occurred at the intersection of a north/south two-lane undivided roadway and a two-lane undivided east/west roadway. The intersection was level and straight and the posted speed limit on the north/south roadway was 64 kmph (40 mph). The intersection was controlled by a traffic signal. The crash occurred mid-morning on a weekday. The weather was clear and sunny and all roadways were bituminous and dry.

V1, a Ford Taurus station wagon with two occupants, was traveling southbound and intended to make left turn at the intersection. V1 slowed as it approached the intersection but did not stop, as the traffic signal was green. V2, a 1994 Lincoln Mark 8 coupe, was traveling northbound on the same roadway and intended to continue straight through the intersection. The driver of V1 did not see V2 approaching and began her turn. The front of V1 struck the left front side of V2 in the intersection. The driver of V1 stated there were shadows from trees on the east curb before the intersection and this was the reason she did not see the other vehicle approaching. The driver, an 83 year-old female, was transported to the hospital for minor injuries. The passenger, an 87 year-old male, was also transported to the hospital for unknown injuries. The driver stated she rarely drives this road, only to get gas when she takes her husband to the doctor, which was where she was headed on this particular day. The driver stated she has a heart valve replacement and takes medication for her heart as well as a blood-thinner (Coumadin). The driver stated that she is in good general health and was lucid during the interview. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver related factor, Inadequate Surveillance (looked but did not see). Associated factors include the medical conditions of heart issues and glaucoma along with the use of medications for these conditions and unfamiliarity with the roadway. The driver stated that she rarely drives any more.

V2, the Lincoln Mark 8, was driven by a 49-year old male who was the sole occupant. An interview was requested and the driver referred the researcher to his attorney. The attorney refused an interview even after repeated assurances of confidentiality were made.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction over left lane line." The Critical Reason was not coded for this vehicle. No associated factors could be coded due to lack of an interview.