This two-vehicle rear end crash occurred approximately 230 meters (754 feet) before a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The roadway is divided by a curbed median and the southbound traffic lanes consist of three through lanes. This roadway is straight with a downhill grade in the southbound direction and has a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with moderate traffic flow.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Chevrolet Malibu with one occupant, was southbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Dodge Caravan with one occupant, was southbound in lane three in front of V1. A non-contact vehicle two cars in front of V2 switched from lane two to lane three, causing traffic behind it to brake suddenly. V1 failed to stop for traffic and the front of V1 impacted the rear of V2. Both vehicles came to rest at the approximate point of impact; V2 came to final rest against the curbed median. V1 was towed due to moderate frontal damage; V2 was driven from the scene. The driver of V1 was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a nineteen-year-old female, was commuting to work from her home. She was late and was in a hurry. She was well rested, drives this route daily and is very comfortable with her vehicle. She stated that she glanced down at the time, and when she looked back up, that's when she saw the brake lights of V2. She is in good health and takes no medications.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction. The driver looked down to see what time it was, just as V2 was braking. She was in a hurry and following too closely.

The driver of V2, a forty-five-year-old female, had just dropped her son off and was on her way home. She was well rested, drives this route daily, and very comfortable driving her vehicle. She is in good health and takes no medications.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.