A two vehicle daytime, turn across path type, collision occurred on a four-lane, undivided east/west roadway. The sky was clear and the asphalt roadway was dry, straight and level (less than 3% grade). The speed limit for the roadway was 48 kmph (30 mph). Traffic entering the intersection is controlled by overhead traffic control signals.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Audi A4 Quattro sedan with only a driver, was turning south from westbound lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Nissan 200SX with two occupants, was proceeding east through the intersection. An eastbound non-contact vehicle was stopped at the intersection waiting to turn left was a view obstruction for both drivers. V1 began the left turn into the intersection and the front of V1 struck the front of V2. V1 continued through the intersection and down the roadway before coming to final rest. V2 was pushed to the right from the impact, and came to rest shortly ahead of the impact. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. None of the occupants were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 19 year-old female. She stated she was a slow and cautious driver who had never driven this roadway before. She did not see the other vehicle and after waiting a prolonged period of time (10-20 seconds) initiated her turn. She did recall a vehicle across the intersection from her, waiting to turn left across her path. She did not see V2 and thought it was safe to proceed with her turn.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event is coded as a driver related factor: turned with obstructed view. Associated factor for this vehicle is a sight line factor; the other vehicle waiting to turn left across from V1 was blocking her view of the approaching roadway.

The driver of V2 was a 22 year-old male. The driver stated he was accelerating and did not see V1 until he was at about the crosswalk. He further stated it was like she was going in slow motion, she was hardly moving. He also stated, as did the passenger, that he remembers going past a large truck at the intersection waiting to turn left.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor for this vehicle is a sight line