This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The northbound roadway is straight, level, one-way and consists of two through lanes, a left turn lane and a parking lane on the right. The east/west roadway is straight, level and consists of one lane in each direction with parking on both sides. The speed limit for these roadways is 40 kmph (25 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Oldsmobile Aurora, was northbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1991 S10 Blazer, was westbound in lane one. The front of V2 struck the right side of V1. The vehicles rotated and the right side of V1 struck the left side of V2. V2 traveled to the northwest and the front struck two poles in the northwest corner of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-three-year-old female, was traveling with her twenty-eight-year-old female cousin and three young children. They had just left a restaurant and were on their way to her cousin's house. This driver was well rested, healthy and comfortable with her vehicle and driver. She has asthma and uses aerosol Albuterol. This driver stated that she was talking to her passenger and did not see V2 until the last minute before the crash.

The driver of V2, a sixteen-year-old male, was traveling with two male passengers. They were listening to the radio, had left a friend's house and were on their way to return V2 to its owner. This driver was well rested, healthy and comfortable with his passengers. He rarely traveled this route and had driven this vehicle only twice in the past three months. He had one year of driving experience at the time of the crash. This driver stated that he never saw V1 prior to the crash. He further stated that V2 was "starting to stutter" and decided to cross the intersection with a red traffic signal.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's inadequate surveillance was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "driver related factor; aggressive driving behavior." This driver's inadequate surveillance and inexperience were associated factors in this crash.