This three-vehicle dawn rear-end collision occurred on a four-lane access controlled highway heading south. The roadway is straight, level and paved with concrete in the area of the crash. The roadway surface is paved with a round-stone aggregate concrete that is well worn and becomes slick during rain. The speed limit for the road is 97 kmph (60 mph). At the time of the crash it was raining lightly and the roadway was wet, but there was no standing water on the road.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Ford Tractor pulling two empty semi-trailers driven by a forty eight (48) year old male, was traveling south in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 Acura Integra coupe, driven by a twenty three (23) year old female; and, Vehicle three (V3) was a 2004 Subaru Forester SUV driven by a fifty three (53) year old female. Both V2 and V3 were also heading south in lane two. V2 & V3 decelerated for traffic congestion, but V1 was unable to stop in time and skidded into the rear of V2. This pushed V2 into V3, but the majority of damage was to the rear of V2. All three vehicles came to final rest facing south in lane two, V2 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the critical event was assigned to V1 as a driver related factor: external distraction. This driver wanted to change lanes due to the stop & go traffic and was looking in his side mirrors. When he glanced forward traffic in front had slowed down and he was unable to avoid impacting the rear of V2. An associated factor for V1 was fatigue. The driver had been driving for over 10 hours (several trips) and reported feeling lightly fatigued.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 coded other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 coded other nor involved in first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

The drivers of V2 & V3 couldn't to be reach for an interview.