This crash occurred in the southbound lane of a six-lane highway divided by a metal guardrail. There were three southbound lanes and three northbound lanes. The southbound side included a single lane on-ramp for merging traffic. The bituminous highway was dry, level, straight, and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit was 80 kmph (50 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during the late morning daylight hours. The roadway was free of any noticeable defects and the traffic flow for this time of day was normally light.

Vehicle one, a 2002 Mitsubishi Lancer 4-door sedan, was traveling in lane two. There was an unknown vehicle traveling in lane three. The unknown vehicle attempted to merge into V1's lane causing V1 to swerved to the right. V1, traveled right across lane one and the shoulder onto the grassy median where it sideswiped a light pole with its left side. V1 continued traveling, crossed over the merging southbound on-ramp, as it rotated counter-clockwise 180 degrees and coming to final rest on the uphill grassy roadside facing northward. The right side wheels both front and back were severely bent and the tires blew out as a result of contact with the ground and curb, tire/wheel separation. Vehicle damages were severe and it was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1.

V1, a 2002 Mitsubishi Lancer, was driven by a 41-year old female, the only occupant said she was traveling in lane two on her way to work on the less then busy highway when an unknown vehicle traveling in lane three attempted to enter her lane and sideswiped her vehicle. She said she didn't see the vehicle until the last minute. She steered right and left trying to avoid the crash, however, she lost control of her vehicle and spun off road contacting a light pole, she thinks, continuing traveling rotating completely around until she came to final rest on the side of the road facing the opposite direction. She explained how she travels on this roadway to and from work daily without event and can't explain why the driver crossed into her lane She'd just driven five miles before the crash and slept her normal 8 hours last night and was not tired. She was not injured.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V2 is: "this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was “incorrect evasive action”. There were no associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle.

It should be noted that after inspection of the vehicle there were no signs that the Mitsubishi Lancer was actually hit by another car.