This three-vehicle crash occurred on a curbed median-divided, straight trafficway. The northbound lanes are level and consist of three through lanes. The speed limit for this trafficway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Honda Accord, was southbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Ford Windstar, was northbound in lane one in front of V1 and vehicle three (V3), a 2002 Chevrolet K1500 pickup, was northbound in lane one in front of V2. V2 and V3 stopped due to an upcoming traffic signal. The front of V1 struck the back of V2. V2 moved forward and the front struck the back of V3. V1 and V3 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-year-old female, was on her way from lunch to a patient's house. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she was looking down at her speedometer and did not realize that V2 had stopped in front of her until the last second.

The driver of V2, a seventy-four-year-old female, was on her way from a gas station to a furniture store. She was well rested, healthy and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route weekly. She has diabetes and spinal stenosis and takes the medication Humalog and an unknown drug for her spine condition. This driver stated that she did not see V1 behind her prior to the crash.

The driver of V3, a twenty-two-year-old female, was traveling from her home to lunch. This driver was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; other vehicle stopped." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; internal distraction."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."

The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded as "not involved first harmful event." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was "not coded to this vehicle."