This crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a four-lane roadway divided by concrete median. There were two northbound lanes and two southbound lanes. The roadway curved very slightly to the left, was level, bituminous, and had a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). It was dawn on a weekday and conditions were clear.

V1 was a 1990 Cadillac Deville 4-door sedan driven by a 25 year-old female. V2 was a 2001 Jeep Grand Cherokee utility vehicle driven by a 31 year-old female, and had one passenger. V3 was a 2005 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan driven by a 75 year-old male. V2 and V3 were stopped in traffic, waiting for the traffic light to turn green. V1 was traveling southbound when it rode over the curb on the right side of the roadway, returned to its original travel lane, and then struck V2 in the rear. V2 was then pushed into V3. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was "driver related factor, incorrect evasive action." The driver stated that she was intending to turn into the parking lot of the grocery store that was on her right. She claims that when she attempted to slow down the accelerator stuck and her brakes failed to slow her down. She passed through the intersection of the parking lot and saw the other vehicles stopped in front of her. She steered to the right, riding up onto the curb, and then realized that she was going to hit a telephone pole. She panicked, steered to the left back onto the roadway, and contacted the rear of V2. V1 was an older model car that upon inspection appeared to not have been kept in very good care. The right front tire was a different size than the other four tires, and they were all very worn. It is possible that the brakes were very worn as well.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to the driver.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. Therefore, no Critical Pre-crash Event or Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to the driver.