This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-leg residential intersection where all traffic is controlled by stop signs. Both roadways are two way, two lane, undivided bituminous and dry at the time. For the east/west roadway, parking lanes are located on both sides. Both roadways are straight and level, with a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). This crash occurred in the afternoon with moderate traffic flow.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Dodge Ram 1500 four-door pickup with three occupants, was westbound in lane one going straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Plymouth Voyager with two occupants, was northbound in lane one accelerating after stopping at the stop sign. V1 ignored a stop sign and entered the intersection where the front of V1 struck the right side of V2. After the impact, V1 rotated slightly clockwise and V2 rotated counterclockwise. Both vehicles came to rest on the northwest corner of the intersection on their wheels facing northwest. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to moderate damage. The driver of V2 was taken to a trauma center by private conveyance after the scene was cleared. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, twenty-four year-old male was driving from a tire store to another store. He is very familiar with this vehicle and has been in this area for one week and driven the route twice. The driver is in the military and was on vacation after being deployed. He was well rested and takes no medication. The driver admitted to missing the stop sign and detected V2 just 1-2 seconds prior to impact. He did not have enough reaction time to attempt any evasive maneuvers prior to impact.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) the intersection. The critical reason for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e. g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

The driver of V2, a forty-seven year-old female, was driving from home to help a friend. She is very familiar with this vehicle and drives this roadway daily. She was well rested and takes no medication. She stopped at the stop sign for 5-10 seconds, looked both ways and accelerated across the intersection. She saw V1 approximately 15 meters (50 feet) before the collision. She was having a conversation with the passenger and either failed to detect V1 earlier or assumed V1 would stop at the stop sign.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.