The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. The eastbound roadway was one-way with one travel lane, with a parking lane on either side of the street and a bicycle lane to the immediate left of the travel lane. The northbound roadway was one-way with one lane of travel. Both roadways were straight, level, and bituminous and it was cloudy, wet and raining. The posted speed limit was 48 kmph (30 mph). It was the afternoon hours of a weekday.

V1, a 2002 Ford F550 straight truck with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane one. V2, a 2002 Mitsubishi Montero sport utility vehicle with one occupant, was traveling eastbound behind V1. At the intersection, V1 attempted to make a left turn to go northbound while V2 attempted to pass V1 on the left side on the bicycle lane and parking lane. The front left of V1 struck the right side of V2. V1 came to final rest in the intersection, and V2 came to final rest northeast of the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Ford F550, was driven by a 49 year-old male who reported no injuries. He advised that he was traveling from one road service job to another road service job. He stated that he attempted to make a left turn at the intersection and did not see that V2 was next to him attempting to pass him on the left side.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling - turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as inadequate surveillance. The weather (rain) and the wet roadway were coded as associated factors.

V2, the Mitsubishi Montero, was driven by a 43 year-old female who reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. She stated to the police that she was traveling inside the bike lane when V1 attempted to make a turn in front of her.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane over right lane line." The Critical Reason for the Critical event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to the driver include traveling too fast for conditions, an illegal maneuver for attempting to pass using a bicycle and parking lane, aggressive driving, the wet roadway and the weather (rain). Other associated factors were coded unknown because no interview was obtained.