This two-vehicle crash occurred at an urban four-legged intersection. The main road runs north/south with no traffic control devices. North/south road is two-way, undivided with two travel lanes in each direction. Eastbound approach is straight with a slight uphill grade controlled by a stop sign. The northwest corner of the intersection contains a high voltage power box with several large shrubs surrounding it. This creates a sightline restriction for eastbound traffic looking north. There are raised curbs and sidewalks present in all directions. The posted speed limit for all roadways is 56 kph (35 mph). Setting was afternoon hours on a weekday. Conditions were daylight, dry, clear and sunny.

V1 is a 1999 Mercury Cougar, two-door with four occupants traveling eastbound in lane one. V2 is a 2006 GMC Sierra, large pickup truck towing a trailer containing two jet-skies with one occupant traveling southbound in lane one. V1 and V2 entered the intersection at the same time, colliding at a right angle. The front-plane of V1 contacted the right-plane of V2 (Event 1). V2 steered left in an attempt to avoid the collision. After initial impact, V1 rotated clockwise in the intersection causing the right side of V2's trailer to contact the left side of V1 (Event 2). V2 began to rotate clockwise in the roadway, crossing slightly into the northbound lane, before re-entering southbound lanes. V2 rotated approximately 90 degrees in the roadway, causing the trailer it was towing to jackknife and contact the back plane of V2 (Event 3). At some point between Event 2 and Event 3, one of the unsecured jet skis on V2's trailer came loose and was flung toward the east side of the road, traveling approximately 18 meters (59 feet) before coming to rest. V1 came to final rest 11.3 meters (37 feet) south of impact area facing south. V2 came to final rest 31.5 meters (103 feet) south of impact area facing west. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 is an 18 year-old male who suffered minor injuries in the crash, but did not require transport. He is currently un-employed but actively seeking employment. Earlier in the day he reported having a job interview that went well. He was over a friend's house hanging out and enjoying themselves. Himself and his three friends decided to go to McDonalds's around the block for an afternoon snack. He tells me he was driving along, came to a stop at the intersection but inadvertently pulled up too far and was in V2's travel path. He said V2's trailer stuck out too far and contacted the front and left plane of his vehicle. He claims to have steered right to avoid a collision, but didn't have enough time. He says the right side of V2's trailer contacted his left drivers' door. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 is "This Vehicle Traveling, Turning left at Intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was Inadequate Surveillance, looked, but did not see"-a driver error. This driver had looked left, didn't see anyone coming and decided to not stop at the stop sign and proceed with his left turn. The high voltage power box and large shrubs to this driver's left obstructed his view of V2, coded as a sightline restriction. If the driver had stopped at the stop sign, the box and shrubs would not have obstructed his view of V2. This driver suffers from ADD and an unknown seizure disorder. He takes Ritalin and an unknown anti-seizure medication daily. He claims neither condition or medication affect his driving ability. There were four occupants in his vehicle and the radio was on. He admitted to talking to his friends prior to the crash occurring. This driver is inexperienced and not being familiar with this roadway. He reports two years driving experience and driving this roadway monthly. The rear tires of V1 had 0/32 tread depth, a tire deficiency

The driver of V2 is a 46 year-old male who was not injured in the crash. He is the district manager of a local hardware firm who reports working 55 hours per week. On this day, he had just picked up a brand new trailer for his two brand new jet skis. He was on his way to the DMV office to have them registered. He was driving straight ahead at 56 kph (35 mph) in lane one. As he approached the intersection, he saw V1 coming up the side street really fast and didn't think they would stop. He changed lanes to the left and accelerated in an attempt to avoid a collision with V1. He said there was not enough time to brake. He says the driver of V1 never hit the brakes or slowed down prior to entering the intersection. He says V1 contacted his right side causing his vehicle and trailer to lose control and jackknife. At some point, one of his jet ski's came off the trailer and ended up across the street due to inadequate securement. His vehicle suffered disabling damage and was towed from the scene

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 is "Other Vehicle Encroachment, from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." The Critical Reason was "Not Coded to this Vehicle." This driver suffered a post-crash cargo spillage due to inadequate securement. He suffers from allergies and treats his symptoms with prescription allergy medications. The EDR for V2 indicated that the driver's speed prior to impact was 72 kph (45 mph) despite the driver being adamant that his speed was 56 kph (35 mph) due to high police presence in the area. Due to the EDR reading, traveling too fast for conditions was coded, because he was traveling 16 kph (10 mph) above the posted speed limit. There were no other factors for this driver.