The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a two-way, ten-lane interstate roadway, which was physically divided by a concrete traffic barrier. There were five northbound lanes, with a posted speed of 105 kmph (65 mph). This was a straight, level, asphalt roadway. Conditions were daylight on a weekday morning with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 2000 Ford Focus with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane five (HOV lane). V2, a 1994 Ford F150 pickup with one occupant, was also traveling northbound in lane five, ahead of V1. V3, a 2003 Hyundai Elantra with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane two. V1 passed V2 on the right, and then attempted to change lanes back into lane five, in front of V2. The left rear side of V1 made contact with the front right side of V2. The impact caused the driver of V1 to lose control. V1 traveled in a northeast direction, across three travel lanes. The front of V1 made contact with the left rear side of V3. V1 rotated in a counterclockwise direction, before rolling over. V1 rolled to the right, an undetermined number of quarter-turns. As the vehicle continued to roll, it traveled off the right side of the interstate, through a grass swale, and then onto an adjoining interstate entrance ramp. The vehicle's uninterrupted rolling distance was approximately 65 meters. V2 came to a controlled final rest on the inside emergency shoulder. V3 spun out after impact, coming to final rest on the interstate. V1 and V3 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Ford Focus was driven by a 20-year old female, who was transported to the hospital due to injury. The driver may have been ejected from the vehicle during the crash. She stated that she was on her way home from work. The driver said that she was driving in the HOV lane, when someone out of the blue, hit her from behind. She said that she did not remember anything after that. The driver's description of crash events conflicted with the driver of V2. The truthfulness of this driver's answers throughout the interview was questionable.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on left side of travel lane". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related decision error, misjudgment of gap distance. The driver of V1 misjudged the distance between herself and V2 as she attempted to change lanes after passing the slower moving vehicle. Other associated factors included traveling too fast for conditions, and aggressive driving. The driver's excessive speed and rapid lane changes were thought to have contributed to the crash. In the absence of any other reasonable explanation for this type of driving behavior, it was thought that aggressive, hurried driving was a normal driving pattern for the driver of V1, and that she probably always drives in that manner. Another driver error was the decision to proceed with a lane change without sufficient clearance. In addition, there were performance errors. The driver was inexperienced. She had no formal driver education, and was not a licensed driver. She may also have been uncomfortable with some aspect of the vehicle, which was a rental car that did not belong to her.

The Ford F150 pickup was driven by a 47-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he was traveling in the HOV lane at a speed of over 112 kmph (70 mph). He could see another vehicle in the distance behind him, quickly approaching. The driver said that she was going much faster than the rest of traffic, and was weaving in and out. He said that as she approached him, she appeared to be angry or impatient, as if she expected him to get out of her way. The motorist indicated that the last time he looked back, he did not see the other driver. He believed that she had perhaps passed him in another lane, or got off at the exit ramp. Just then, the driver saw V1 out of his peripheral vision. She was quickly passing him, and trying to move back into his travel lane. He said that he could see that she was going to hit him, but he didn't have time to take any avoidance actions.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane (same direction) over right lane line". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. One associated factor for the driver was traveling too fast for conditions. The driver indicated that he was just keeping up with surrounding traffic, as his reason for traveling at the given speed.

The Hyundai Elantra was driven by a 70-year old male, who was transported to the hospital due to injury. He stated that he was a salesman, and he was on his way from his house to see a client. The driver stated that he was driving in lane two, because he is a cautious driver, and does not like traffic weaving around him. He said that the other driver hit him in the left side of his vehicle, and that he never saw her coming. The motorist indicated that his vehicle spun around in a counterclockwise direction, several times before coming to final rest on the interstate.

There was no Critical Precrash Event for this vehicle. V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. Therefore, the Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. Physical factors for this driver included a prostate condition for which the driver takes the medications Flomax, and Proscar. There were no additional associated factors coded to the driver of the Elantra.