The crash occurred in a signalized intersection of two roadways. The east/west roadway was two-way with one lane of travel in each direction. The southbound roadway was one-way with one lane of travel. The roadway was straight and level, bituminous roadway with a speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). It was the morning hours of a weekday.

V1, a 2005 Scion TC two door with one occupant was traveling westbound in lane one. V2, a 2005 Nissan Altima four door with one occupant was traveling southbound in lane one. At the intersection, the front of V1 contacted the right side of V2. Both vehicles came to a final rest in the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Scion TC, was driven by a 54 year-old male who reported no injuries. He advised that he was traveling to work and at this intersection, the traffic light was broken. He stopped for the red light and proceeded to go through when he was impacted by V2.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection". The Critical Reason was coded “inadequate surveillance”. An associated factor coded to both drivers was the traffic flow interruption, traffic signal not working. No other associated factors were coded to the driver.

V2, the Nissan Altima, was driven by a 22 year-old male who reported no injuries. He stated that he was traveling from home and going to work. He advised that the traffic signal was broken, and stuck on yellow. The driver advised that he did not come to a complete stop before entering the intersection.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street across path". The Critical Reason for the Critical event was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to the driver was an inadequate surveillance; he failed to look to either side ahead. An experience factor was coded to the driver because it was his first time on this road, and another Associated factor coded to both drivers was the traffic flow interruption, traffic signal not working.