This crash occurred in the left lane of a two-lane asphalt eastbound interstate with a positive barrier and a posted speed limit of 113 kmph (70 mph). The crash occurred during daylight hours in the morning and there were no adverse conditions present at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1992 Saturn SC coupe, was traveling in the left eastbound lane. V2, a 2005 Chrysler Sebring convertible, was also traveling eastbound in the same lane in front of V1. The driver of V2 applied the brakes to try and change lanes and was contacted in the back left bumper by the front right side of V1. After impact, the left side of V1 scraped the concrete median barrier. Both vehicles were towed from the scene with moderate damage. Both restrained drivers were transported to the hospital. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 26-year-old female, stated that V2 locked up its brakes and that she could not stop in time to avoid the crash. She then stated that V1's brakes locked up. She attempted to avoid the crash by braking hard and steering to the left, but could not avoid an impact with V2.

The Critical Pre Crash Event coded for V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane traveling in the same direction while decelerating." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as "Following too closely to respond to unexpected actions of others." An associated factor coded to the driver of V1 was the presence of cocaine in the driver's system, as determined by a drug screen at the hospital.

The driver of V2, a 32-year-old female, stated that she was in the left lane and needed to get into the right lane in order to make the next exit. There was a vehicle in the right lane next to her, so she braked in order to get over. As she braked, she said she was struck in the rear of her vehicle.

V2 was determined to have ABS, which would not allow the driver to lock up the brakes hard enough to create smoke, as stated by the witness. The witness could not be reached for an interview, but the statement he made to the police could not be correct.

The Critical Pre Crash Event coded for V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane traveling in the same direction with a higher speed." No Critical Reason was coded to V2. Associated factors coded to the driver of V2 include the use of prescription medication for asthma and allergies and an "other" decision error in that the driver decided to brake hard in an attempt to change lanes to make the next exit.