This single vehicle-crash happened on a weekday during early afternoon hours on a divided, elevated expressway with five northbound lanes. These lanes curve to the left. The weather was clear and the concrete road surface was dry. The posted speed limit for the roadway was 97 kmph (60 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1991 Acura Integra, was traveling north in lane five of the roadway. V1 began to rotate counterclockwise and departed the roadway to the left and the front of the vehicle struck the median bridge rail. V1 continued to rotate counterclockwise and the back of V1 struck the bridge rail. The front of the vehicle then struck the bridge rail again. V1 came to rest facing west and was towed due to damage. During the inspection, tire defects were noted. The right rear tire was debeaded due to the crash. No damage could be seen. The front tires were over-inflated (especially the left front tire) and showed extensive wear in the middle of the tread. The left rear tire was under inflated and showed extensive wear on the outside of the tread. The right rear tire was flat, but showed the same wear pattern as the left rear tire. The vehicle had oversize tires (P245/40R18). Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

A 19-year old male was driving the vehicle. He was heading from his home to pick up his parents from work. He stated that he was rested and not fatigued but had gotten less than his normal eight hours of sleep. He is in good health and takes no medications. He drives his vehicle on this roadway on a daily basis. He is familiar with the vehicle and had one year of driving experience. He stated that he was traveling at 98-113 kmph (61-70 mph).

The critical per-crash event was coded "this vehicle tcontrol loss due to traveling too fast for conditions." The critical reason was coded "driver related factor; too fast for curve/turn." This driver's poor directional control, inexperience and the vehicle's defective tires were associated factors in this crash.