This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged intersection. Both roadways are undivided, straight and consist of one lane in each direction. The northbound approach has an uphill grade. The eastbound approach has a downhill grade and is controlled by a stop sign. The speed limit for these roadways is 40 kmph (25 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Chrysler Town and Country, was northbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Ford Explorer, was eastbound in lane one. There was a large tree on the right side of the eastbound approach roadway near the intersection. There were two vehicles parked facing southbound on the left side of the northbound approach roadway. V2 stopped at the stop sign and then proceeded into the intersection. The front of V1 struck the right side of V2. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a seventeen-year-old male, who was traveling with three adults and four young children, had just picked up his sister and they were on their way home. This driver was healthy, well rested and comfortable with his vehicle and passengers. He travels this route weekly. This driver stated that he was talking with his front seat passenger who let him know that V2 was approaching and was on the phone. He applied the brakes when V1 entered the intersection in an attempt to avoid the crash. This driver had one year of driving experience at the time of the crash.

The driver of V2, a fifty-two-year-old female, is a realtor and was on her way from her home to an appointment to show a house. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver has sleep apnea but uses CPAP treatment. She stated that she was having a business conversation on her cell phone as she approached the intersection and stopped at the stop sign. After she entered the intersection and saw V1, she accelerated in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was not coded to this vehicle. This driver's distraction (created by talking to his passenger) and his inexperience were associated factors in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction. This driver's inadequate surveillance, and crossed with an obstructed view were associated factors in this crash.

The vision restriction caused by the tree and the parked vehicles was an associated factor for both drivers in this crash.