This single-vehicle crash occurred in the snow-covered depressed sod median of a divided state highway. There are two through lanes in each direction, east and west. This roadway is straight and level, with a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with very cold temperatures (e.g., -15 degrees Celsius, or 5 °Fahrenheit). There were ice spots in some places on the roadway and the right shoulder was covered with snow. The vehicle had just exited a slight right hand curve when the vehicle entered the right shoulder.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1991 Honda Accord with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane one, negotiating a slight curve right. After the curve the road is straight and V1 traveled onto the paved right shoulder area. The driver overcorrected and V1 re-entered lane one in a counter clockwise yaw. V1 traveled across both lanes of the highway, still yawing counterclockwise, and entered the snow-covered median area, leading with its right side. V1 was sliding broadside through the median and reached a trip point approximately 13 meters (43 feet) from the left road edge. V1 rolled two-quarter turns, first onto its right side and then onto its top, and came to rest facing south in the median. V1 was towed due to damage. The driver of V1 was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1, a thirty-four-year-old male, was going from his house to his cousin's house. He had worked all night and had not slept since the day before. He claims he only got two hours of sleep the prior evening, but was unable to relate exactly when he had gone to bed and when he had gotten up. The driver's statements were not consistent throughout the interview. Medical tests were positive for alcohol with a BAC of 0.333.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling: off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: poor directional control (e.g., failing to control vehicle with skill ordinarily expected). The driver allowed the vehicle to run off the right side of the roadway and he overcompensated and the vehicle initiated a counter clockwise yaw. Ice spots and the snow-covered shoulder were associative factors.