This two-vehicle crash occurred in a three-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. On the north side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a painted median and the southbound traffic lanes consist of a left turn lane and three through lanes. On the south side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a painted median and the northbound traffic lanes consist of a right turn lane and three through lanes. This roadway is straight, downhill in the northbound direction, and has a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred at night with moderate traffic flow.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Toyota Corolla with two occupants, was traveling southbound in lane four, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Nissan Altima with three occupants, was traveling northbound in lane two, approaching the intersection. The driver of V1 thought she had enough time to make the left turn in front of V2 and proceeded to turn. V2 entered the intersection at the same time V1 was turning, and the front of V1 collided with the left front of V2. V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest facing north-northwest on the north side of the intersection in lane two. V2 rotated slightly counterclockwise and came to rest facing north-northwest on the north side of the intersection in lane one. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1 and 0 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a sixteen-year-old female, had just come from having dinner with her boyfriend and was on her way to a friend's house. They were having a conversation and listening to the radio. She reported being well rested, comfortable with her vehicle, and driving this route daily. She is in good health and takes no medications. An associative factor is driver inexperience, as she had only been driving for the past six months.

The driver of V2, a thirty-three-year-old female, was coming from picking up her two children at a friend's house and was on her way home. She was well rested, comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route about once a month. She reports having good health and takes no medications.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed. The driver observed V2 approaching the intersection and thought she had enough time to make the turn in front of V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction, over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to V2.