The crash occurred on a straight, level, two-way, two-lane road that ran north/south and was only divided by a painted double yellow line. The east side of the road had a drainage ditch that was freshly dug with vertical sides and a depth of 2.6 meters at the rollover initiation point. The crash occurred under daylight and dry conditions around mid morning on a weekday. The speed limit for the road was 64kph.

V1 was a 1995 Oldsmobile Cutlass Ciera traveling north on the road when a police officer initiated a traffic stop for (the officer related to the researcher) window tinting that appeared too dark for state law. When V1 attempted to pull over to the right shoulder and slow to a stop the brakes failed and V1 drove into the drain ditch on the east side of the road, rolling ¼ turn onto its right and coming to rest on its right side facing north. V1 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

V1 was driven by a twenty-three-year-old-belted male who was uninjured in the crash as were his two passengers. He had just picked up his girlfriend and 3-week-old baby boy for a scheduled doctor visit. The driver stated that he knew the brakes were bad and that they made him nervous. He had just purchased the car a week previous and had not had a chance to get any work done on the vehicle.

The critical precrash event for V1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason was a vehicle related factor of brake failure (the researcher did verify that the brakes on V1 were non-functional during the follow up inspection at the wrecker yard) as if the vehicle had stopped when the brakes were applied the driver never would have driven into the ditch. Another vehicle related factor was that V1 had three different tire sizes on two different rim sizes with low tread on three of the tires. An exterior associated factor to the rear was the police vehicle and the driver was tracking it in the rearview mirror instead of looking at the path ahead where he was taking his vehicle (inattentive and failed to look far enough ahead). He was also talking to his passenger (girlfriend) at the time of the crash. Narrow shoulders were coded as a roadway related factor.