This two-vehicle crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a four lane, positively divided, straight roadway with an unknown positive grade and a speed limit of 97 kmph (60 mph). This crash occurred before sunrise with light traffic. The roadway was dark, but lighted. There were no adverse weather conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Mercury Sable with one occupant, was northbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Dodge Ram with one occupant, was northbound in lane two adjacent to V1. The driver of V1 attempted to merge left from the first lane into the second lane. The front of V1 struck the right side of V2. V2 rotated clockwise and the front of V2 struck the concrete wall on the east side of the roadway. V2 continued rotating and the front of V1 struck the left side of V2 at the final rest position of both vehicles. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Neither driver was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-three year-old female, was traveling from home to work. She was well rested, in good health and comfortable with her vehicle. She drives this route daily. This driver stated that she was not distracted and was attentive to the driving task. The driver indicated that she did not look to her left prior to initiating her lane change. She stated that she did not see V2 when she began to merge into the second lane.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling: over the lane line on the left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

The driver of V2, a forty-four year-old male, was traveling from home to work. He was well rested, in good health and comfortable with his vehicle. He drives this route daily. The driver stated that V1 was to his rear and he did not see V1 prior to impact.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment: from adjacent lane (same direction)-over right lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.