The crash occurred at the intersection of a primary arterial road and a secondary arterial in a suburban business district. The primary ran north/south with six southbound lanes (1-right turn only, 2-3-4 through, 5-6 left turn only) on the north leg divided from the three northbound lanes by a raised concrete median. The secondary ran east/west with four westbound lanes (1-right turn only, 2-straight and right, 3-straight, 4-left turn only) on the east leg divided from two eastbound lanes by a raised grass median. Both approaches (southbound and westbound) to the intersection were straight and level. The speed limit for both roads was 72 kmph (45 mph). Conditions at the time of the crash were dark and lit at late evening on a weekday. The intersection was controlled by traffic signals, on-colors with no pedestrian signal. On a side note the traffic signals use multiple LED's as opposed to a bulb and colored lens.

V1 was a 2001 Nissan Altima traveling west in lane 2 of the secondary road when it passed into the intersection and was struck on its right side by the front of V2, a 2000 Jeep Cherokee that was heading south on the primary in lane 4. V1 came to rest facing south in the intersection about 12.9 meters southeast of impact. After skidding 12.2 meters before impact and 9.5 meters post impact V2 came to rest about 9.8 meters south of impact facing south, also in the intersection. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a forty-six-year-old-belted-male who was uninjured in the crash. He was on his way home from dinner at the time of the crash and stated to the researcher that the LED style of traffic controls made it difficult to differentiate the right turn arrow from the solid green light (although when the researcher observed the lights the right turn arrow was only present concurrently with the solid red signal). He thought the light was solid green so he went through the intersection. As he drove through the intersection he was hit by the front of the Jeep on the right side of his car. He did not see the Jeep till the last second out of the corner of his eye.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, passing through an intersection". The Critical Reason was an "illegal maneuver (ran red light)". An other recognition error was coded to capture the drivers' traffic signal issue. No other factors coded to this vehicle.

V2 was driven by a thirty-five-year-old-belted-male who was uninjured in the crash. He was on his way home from work after "grabbing some dinner". He had a solid green light and the other car (V1) just came right ton through. He (V1) did not slow down or anything. He hit his brakes hard but it wasn't enough.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment from crossing-street across path". The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Given the respective lengths of the pre and post impact skids the driver was coded as traveling too fast to be able to respond to the unexpected actions of others. No other contributing factors were coded to this vehicle.