This two-vehicle crash occurred at a four-legged suburban intersection. The main roadway ran east/west with no traffic control devices. There were five lanes present; two in each direction divided by a two-way left turn lane. The intersecting north/south roadway was a two-lane, two-way road controlled by stop signs. The southbound approach curved left with a 10 percent uphill grade. The westbound approach curved left with a slight downhill grade and an 8 percent superelevation. There were raised barrier curbs and sidewalks present for all roadways. The posted speed limit for all roadways was 72 kmph (45 mph). Setting was early afternoon hours on a weekday. Conditions were daylight, sunny and dry. Traffic flow was moderate at the time of crash.

V1 was a 1993 Saturn SL four-door sedan with one occupant traveling southbound in lane one. V2 was a 2003 Chevrolet Suburban large utility vehicle with one occupant traveling westbound in lane two. V1 failed to stop for the stop sign and entered into the path of V2. The front-plane of V2 contacted the left front-plane of V1 in the westbound lanes (Event 1). The crash caused V1 to rotate in a clockwise fashion, while V2 veered toward the left. While V1 was rotating, the left rear corner contacted the right passenger door of V2 (Event 2). V1 came to final rest 14.3 meters (47 feet) west of impact area facing east in the westbound lanes. V2 came to final rest 18.5 meters (60 feet) west of the impact area facing west in the eastbound lanes. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 36 year-old female who suffered serious injuries in this crash and was transported to a local trauma center for treatment. Due to complications from her injuries, she couldn't be contacted for an interview. However, her sister did report that the driver was homeless at the time of the crash and had been either sleeping at her sister's house or her father's house. The driver's husband left her nine months ago and she's been an "emotional mess" since then. The sister reported her being unemployed, but actively seeking employment. She reported that the driver suffers from depression and anxiety in response to the divorce and lack of having her life in order. She was unsure of the mental state of this driver on the day of the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "Type of driver error unknown." Since the driver wasn't interviewed, the reason that she turned left in front of V2 was unknown. According to the driver of V2, this driver did not stop at the stop sign. He didn't even think she slowed down. According to her sister, she suffers from depression and anxiety, and medical records indicate that she was taking a medication prescribed to treat depression and a medication often used to treat ADHD. It was unknown if she was upset the day of the crash, but she did have emotional issues relating to unemployment and divorce. The driver of V2 reported that the driver of V1 looked angry with a blank stare, and that she never looked left prior to turning. There are no other known factors for this driver.

The driver of V2 was a 28 year-old male who suffered broken ribs in the crash requiring transport to the trauma center. He reported he was on his way home from work to have lunch and to visit his family. He was in the left lane traveling at 96 kmph (60 mph) while negotiating the left curve. He said V1 came out of a side road to the right with the intention of either going straight across or turning left and traveling in the opposite direction of himself. He said V1 never stopped at the stop sign, nor did she ever make eye contact with him prior to the crash. In his opinion the driver of V1's face appeared angered with a blank look on it one second before he struck her. He did apply his brakes and steer left, noticing the ABS brakes kick in, causing him to be able to maintain control of his vehicle. After he struck V1, his vehicle veered left and came to rest in the turn lane. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. This driver admitted to traveling 96 kmph (60 mph), which was 24 kmph (15 mph) above the posted speed limit for no apparent reason. The EDR in V2 confirmed that this driver was traveling above the posted speed limit, but only recorded his pre-crash speed at 89 kmph (55 mph). This driver did report work related stress. He said he often gets in trouble with his boss for not correctly doing his job. This driver also reports working 72 hours per week as a painter. There were no other factors for this driver.