This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The east/west roadway is straight, level, undivided and consists of two through lanes in each direction with a left turn lane at the intersection. The roadway was wet at the time of the crash. The speed limit for this roadway is 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Pontiac Firebird, was stopped westbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Ford Mustang, was eastbound in lane one. V1 entered the intersection turning left and the right side was struck by the front of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-two-year-old male, was traveling with a thirty-five-year-old female passenger. They had dropped the children at daycare and were on their way to work. This driver was healthy, well rested and comfortable with his vehicle and passenger. He travels this route daily. He takes Allegra for his allergies. This driver stated that he saw V2 but thought that he had time to make his turn. He further stated that he started his turn and had to wait for a pedestrian to cross the north/south roadway. Just prior to the crash, he was talking to his passenger and focused on his turn destination. When he realized that V2 was traveling too fast to stop at the intersection, he accelerated in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The driver of V2, a nineteen-year-old male, was on his way to school from his home. He was healthy and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver had awakened from seven-and-a-half hours of sleep (less than his normal nine hours) just a few minutes prior to leaving for school. He also stated that he could not see well due to sun glare and was inattentive (focus unknown). According to a witness, this driver was talking on a cell phone and traveling too fast to stop at the intersection when the signal turned red. This driver applied the brakes (skidding longitudinally) in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; misjudgment of gap or other's speed." This driver's focus on his turn and the distraction of talking to his passenger were associated factors in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle." The sun glare and this driver's speed were associated factors in this crash.