,This two-vehicle crash occurred on a straight, level roadway that consists of two lanes in each direction and a center left turn lane. The speed limit on this roadway is 89 kmph (55 mph). It was dark in the early evening at the time of the crash with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 GMC Sonoma pickup, was eastbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Dodge Caravan, was westbound in lane two. V1 traveled across the center turn lane and into westbound lane two. The front of V1 struck the front of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-two-year-old male, was not interviewed. His father was interviewed and stated that his son had been on his way home from Mexico. He stated that this driver was familiar with his vehicle and drives this route daily. He further stated that he believed that his son fell asleep. In an interview with a police officer, this driver stated that he had fallen asleep prior to the crash. According to the medical reports, the blood tests for this driver indicate the ingestion of amphetamine, benzodiazepine and THC. No further information is available for this driver.

The driver of V2, a fifty-seven-year-old male, was killed in this crash. His daughter was interviewed and indicated that this driver was nearing the end of his shift as a taxi-driver. She stated that he traveled this route daily. According to medical reports, this driver had diabetes and cancer and took the medications aspirin, Metformin, Glipizide XL, Neurontin, Zocor, Prazidec-Omedrazole, Synesparmid, Metoclopramide and Roxicet. No further information is available for this driver.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: sleeping, that is, actually asleep.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.