This three-vehicle crash occurred near an intersection of a north/south roadway and a one-way eastbound roadway. The north/south roadway consisted of a single lane for either direction with large cement support beams in the center of the street and on both sides of the street supporting an overhead bridge. These north/south lanes were non-physically divided; only a wide painted center median with bridge support beams separated the two-directional roadway. There were no signalized traffic control devices at this beginning of the block location. The bituminous covered roadways were dry, level, and straight and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during the late afternoon daylight hours on a roadway free of any noticeable defects with a traffic flow normal for this roadway.

Vehicle one, a 2000 Chevrolet Malibu 4-door sedan, was initially traveling eastbound on the one-way street and attempted to make a left turn northbound. As the driver was turning, she lost control of her vehicle, which jumped the curb and its front right contacted a building wall located just beyond the northeast curb edge. Following this impact, V1 turned around approximately 180 degrees and began traveling west across the northbound lane, then crossing over the double lane line into the southbound lane where it struck Vehicle two, a 1997 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, which had been traveling southbound. Following this impact, V1 continued westbound off the west road edge and struck the left side of V3, a legally parked 2001 Mercedes Benz ML320 utility vehicle. After being struck by V1, V2 rotated clockwise and jumped the same curb and came to final rest facing westward. Vehicle two was eventually towed from the scene with a bent left front axle. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a 54-year old female and only occupant, reported that she had been traveling eastbound on the one way street on her way home from visiting her aunt to discuss some family matters. She was tired and had a lot on her mind. She stated that it was like she was driving in a fog. At the corner of the intersection, she turned left and lost control of her vehicle and ran into the wall. She reported that she was eating and listening to the radio. She said that the night before she had only slept for six hours; she normally sleeps eight hours. She stated that after she hit the wall, she steered left came off the pavement back onto the roadway and crossed over the double yellow lines. She then struck the other vehicle (V2) that was traveling southbound. She said she did not get a lot of sleep because of the family issues she been bogged down with and could not say for sure that she stopped at the stop sign before turning at the intersection. She said that she travels on this roadway daily. She also said that her medications don't help her driving ability either. She claimed that she did not hit the other vehicle (V3) parked on the pavement. She was not injured.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V1 was "this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as inattention (i.e., daydreaming). Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle include personal problems, fatigue, eating and drinking while driving, medication use due to high blood pressure and chronic pain, and poor directional control.

The driver of V2, a 57-year old female, said she was traveling southbound on her way home from work when out of nowhere, the other vehicle crossed the yellow lines into her lane and smashed into her vehicle. It was so unexpected that all she could do was slam on her brakes. She said the other driver looked high. She travels on this roadway daily and was on her cell phone at the time of the crash but claimed that she was not distracted. She was transported to the hospital by medics.

No Critical Pre-Crash Event and no Critical Reason were coded to V2 because it was not involved in the first harmful event. Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle include talking on cell phone and the use of prescription medication to control high blood pressure.