The crash occurred at a four legged intersection in the eastbound lanes. In the eastbound direction, there was a right turn exit lane onto a highway on ramp, two eastbound lanes, and two west bound lanes. In the westbound direction, there were two west bound lanes, one left turn lane, and three eastbound lanes. The intersection was signal controlled. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph) and was on level grade in all directions. Conditions were dawn and cloudy with wet roads. The setting was morning hours on a weekday.

Vehicle one was a 1992 BMW 325i sedan traveling westbound in lane three preparing to turn left. Vehicle two was a 1996 Ford Mustang coupe traveling eastbound in lane three. Vehicle three was a 2001 Dodge Durango sport utility following V1 westbound in lane three preparing to turn left. Vehicle four was a Plymouth Voyager minivan following V2 eastbound in lane three. V1 began turning left as V2 proceeded through the intersection. The front of V1 impacted the front of V2. V1's back plane was then impacted by V3's front plane. V2's back plane was impacted by V4's front plane. V1 came to rest at its second impact in the intersection. V2 rotated clockwise, traveling in a semi-circle and then collided with a guardrail on the southeast corner of the intersection, impacting it with its front and coming to rest. V3 came to rest at impact in lane three westbound. V4 came to rest at impact in lane three eastbound. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

The BMW 325i (V1) was driven by a 20-year old female who suffered possible injuries but was not transported. She was present on scene but did not speak English. She could not be located again for an interview. The investigating officer estimated her travel and impact speeds to be 16 kmph (10 mph). The BMW sedan was towed due to damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling turning left at an intersection. The Critical Reason was unknown. The driver was not licensed. No other associated factors could be coded to this driver.

The Ford Mustang (V2) was driven by a 31-year old female who was transported to a local trauma center with non-incapacitating injuries. She was unable to be located for an interview. The investigating officer estimated her travel and impact speeds to be 72 kmph (45 mph) and 48 kmph (30 mph), respectively. The Ford coupe was towed due to damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line. No Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. This driver was prescribed several prescription medications for rheumatoid arthritis and Lupus, including a muscle relaxant.

The Dodge Durango (V3) was driven by a 39-year old male who was uninjured. He stated that he was heading to work when the vehicle ahead of him turned into traffic causing a collision. He attempted to put his vehicle into reverse but accidentally selected Park. He was stopped at impact. The Dodge sport utility was not towed due to damage.

No Critical Pre-crash Event or Reason were coded to this driver because he was not involved in the first harmful event. This driver was taking medication for high cholesterol. He wore glasses for a nearsighted condition.

The Plymouth Voyager (V4) was driven by a 45-year old male who was uninjured. He was not one of the first three vehicles involved in the crash. No Critical Pre-crash Event or Reason was coded to this driver because he was not involved in the first harmful event.