This two-vehicle crash occurred at a signal controlled four-legged intersection. The southbound approach curved left with a 6 percent uphill grade. This stretch of road had a right turn-only lane to enter the westbound interstate, and two straight through lanes. A grass median divided this roadway from the northbound roadway. The northbound approach curved to the right with a 4.6 percent downhill grade. There were two straight through lanes and a dedicated left turn lane divided by a raised concrete divider. The intersecting east road was the westbound interstate off-ramp, while the west roadway was the westbound interstate on-ramp. The posted speed limit for this roadway was 72 kmph (45 mph) and the road surface was bituminous. Setting was afternoon hours on a weekday. Conditions were daylight, dry and clear with light traffic flow.

Vehicle 1 was a 1992 Ford E-350 super walk-in van with two occupants traveling southbound in lane three, the far left straight lane. Vehicle 2 was a 2004 Ford Focus four-door sedan with one occupant traveling northbound in lane three, the left turn-only lane. As V1 entered the intersection, V2 turned left to travel westbound onto the interstate. V1 applied the brakes without lock up and steered right to avoid the crash. The front of V1 contacted the right side of V2 (event 1). V2 took no avoidance maneuvers. After impact V1 continued on a right path and came to rest on the southwest corner of the intersection with its right front tire on the curb approximately 13.3 meters (44 feet) from impact area. The impact caused V2 to be pushed laterally, leaving 4.25 meters (14 feet) of tire marks before straightening out and traveling southwest. V2 came to final rest within inches of V1 facing southwest approximately 14.5 meters (48 feet) from impact area. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 56 year-old female who suffered minor injuries in the crash and received treatment later that night at the hospital. She was self-employed as a vending machine stocker. She had just stocked a machine 22 minutes away and was on her way to another job site when the crash occurred. She was conversing with her blind husband who was sitting in the front passenger seat prior to the crash, as well as listening to talk radio. She was in lane three traveling straight at 72 kmph (45 mph) facing a green light. As she entered the intersection, V2 turned left in front of her. She hit the brakes, causing the ABS system to activate and steered right to try and avoid a crash, but struck the right side of V2 in the intersection. She had approximately 700 lbs of cargo in the rear of her van that shifted forward during impact due to inadequate securement. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "Other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over left lane line." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this driver. This driver did falsely assume that V1 would yield the right of way to her in the intersection. She was talking to her husband and listening to the radio prior to impact, possible distractions. She suffers from arthritis and osteoporosis, which she treats with prescription medication.

The driver of V2 was a 26 year-old female who was not injured in the crash. She was a foreign exchange student from Brazil who was in America going to college full-time. On this day, she was driving back home from college. She had been on the road for 10 minutes. She drove this roadway everyday and was familiar with traffic flow and signal light patterns. She reported being in lane three, the left turn lane, facing a green left turn arrow. As she approached the intersection, she noticed V1 approaching her, but assumed V1 would stop since she had a green arrow. She proceeded to make her left turn and was struck on the right side by V1. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling right side damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "False assumption of other's action" - a driver error. She noticed V1 coming toward her, but thought it would slow down and stop because she had a left turn arrow. She only reported 2.5 years of driving experience, most of which was in Brazil, therefore inexperience was coded as an associated factor. No other factors were coded for this driver.