This crash occurred in a T-intersection of a five-lane east/west roadway and a two-lane north/south roadway. The southbound roadway ended at the intersection. Both roadways were dry, straight, level asphalt with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). The southbound roadway was controlled by a stop sign; the east/west roadway had no traffic control device. The crash occurred during early the afternoon hours and there were no adverse conditions present at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1992 Plymouth Voyager minivan, was stopped in the southbound lane of the north/south roadway waiting to turn left onto the five-lane roadway. V2, a 1991 Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme 4-door sedan, was traveling west in the first lane of travel. V1 started to make its left turn and was struck on the front left side by the front of V2. After this impact, V2 rotated in a counterclockwise direction and the right rear of V2 struck the left rear of V1. V1 came to rest close to its point of impact, while V2 continued forward in a southerly direction before coming to rest facing east on the eastbound shoulder. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 40 year-old female, stated that she stopped at the stop sign and looked both ways before attempting to make her left turn. She stated that when she looked she did not see any vehicles, so she pulled out into the intersection. She stated that she never saw V2 until impact.

The Critical Pre-Crash event coded for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, turning left at an intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded for V1 was "Inadequate surveillance, looked but did not see." Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include the medical condition of bipolar disorder and the use of several prescription medications.

The driver of V2, a 26 year-old female, stated that as she approached the intersection she saw V1 start to pull out in front of her, so she hit the brakes as hard as she could but could not avoid the crash with V1.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." V2 was not assigned a Critical Reason and no associated factors were coded to the driver.