This crash occurred at a four-way intersection with stop signs on the east and westbound roads. The eastbound road was on an uphill incline. The north/southbound roadway had no traffic control devices. The northbound roadway had a curve to the right. Each roadway had two lanes, were bituminous, and had a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). It was early afternoon on a weekend and conditions were clear.

V1 was a 2002 Jeep Liberty driven by a 51 year-old female. V2 was a 1999 Jeep Grand Cherokee Laredo driven by a 41 year-old male. V1 was traveling eastbound in lane one, and came to a stop at the stop sign. After the driver had checked both directions she proceeded into the intersection intending to go straight. When V1 entered the intersection it struck V2, which was traveling northbound in lane one. V2 began to rotate counterclockwise in the intersection, it then tripped over its wheels as they dug into the asphalt, and began to rollover from left to right. V2 made six quarter turns before coming to final rest on its roof. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “this vehicle traveling, crossing over intersection.” The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was “driver related factor, inadequate surveillance, looked but did not see.” The driver of V1 stated that she had looked in both directions before crossing over the intersection and that she never saw V2 until the impact. She stated that there are roadside obstructions in the form of trees and shrubs in combination with the roads curvature, that make it hard to see oncoming traffic. While at the scene this researcher observed the obstructions at the stop sign. If a vehicle is stopped directly at the stop sign the roadway is indeed obstructed. However if the vehicle pulls forward several feet from the stop sign the view becomes unobstructed.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was “other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path.” The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no other factors coded to this vehicle. There was also a witness who corroborated that V2 was traveling at the posted 35 mph.