The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. The east/west roadway was undivided with one lane in each direction. The southbound roadway was one-way with one lane of travel. The east/west roadway was a straight, level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). It was the evening hours of a weekday, and it dark out but the roadway was illuminated by streetlamps. There were no adverse conditions.

V1, a 2007 Nissan Sentra four door sedan with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane one and attempting to make a left turn at the intersection. V2, a 1997 Mercury Grand Marquis four door sedan with two occupants, was traveling westbound in lane one behind V1. At the intersection, V2 attempted to make a left turn in front of V1. V1 came to a final rest in the southeast corner of the intersection. V2 came to a final rest on the southwest curb. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Nissan Sentra, was driven by a 24 year-old male who reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. He stated to the police that he was traveling westbound and while he was making a left turn V2 also attempted to make a left turn.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane (same direction) - over left lane line." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded because no interview was obtained.

V2, the Mercury Grand Marquis, was driven by a 32 year-old male who reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. A male occupant in V2 reported no injuries.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "this vehicle traveling over the lane line on left side of travel lane." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as an unknown driver error. An associated factor coded to the driver was an illegal maneuver; he turned from the wrong lane. Other possible associated factors were coded unknown because no interview was obtained.