This two vehicle daytime collision occurred in the intersection of a two lane arterial road, and a two-lane city street. The road is paved with asphalt and is straight with a uphill grade of 6% for V1 and level for V2. The speed limit for both vehicles is 48 kmph (30 mph). At the time of the crash the sky was cloudy with fog and frost on the roadway. Traffic flow controlled by on-color signals.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Toyota Camry Solara coupe driven by a twenty five (25) year old female, was traveling east. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Chevrolet Colorado pickup truck driven by a twenty five (25) year old female, was traveling south. V1 approached the intersection with a red light and continued through the intersection. As V1 entered the intersection V2 impacted with the front left corner of V2. Both vehicles deflected and the left rear of V1 impacted the right rear of V2. V1 came to rest just south of the intersection on the northwest curb and V2 came to rest south of the intersection in the on coming travel lane. Both vehicles were towed due to damage and the driver of V2 was transported due to injury. The driver of V2 refused to be interviewed and or take part in the study. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event assigned to this driver is coded as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions. Associated factors for V1 are: driver was unfamiliar with roadway and was looking for street signs. The driver was fatigued at the start of the trip. The driver was coming from work and going to her boyfriends place. She was thinking about financial problems and talking on her cell phone to her boyfriend when she mistakenly ran the red light. She thought she had the green light and saw V2 approaching the intersection. After stopping for 1 to 2 seconds, she entered the intersection thinking V2 would yield her the right of way, but V2 kept on coming.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle. There was no interview obtained with this driver.