This two-vehicle crash occurred shortly after dark .The location was a busy interstate highway. The roadway was the westbound direction of a bituminous three-lane divided roadway. The impact location is just west of an on-ramp. The weather was clear and dry, and visibility was clear. The posted speed limit was 97 kmph (60 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Ford Aerostar Mini van, driven by a sixty five (65) year old male was traveling westbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Chevrolet Silverado K-2500 4x4 pickup driven by a fifty one (51) year old male with one passenger, was westbound in lane two. As V2 overtook V1, the driver of V1 departed the right side of the road and impacted a guard rail with the right side of V1. Then V1 accelerated back onto the roadway and impacted the right rear of V2 and then the trailing unit of V2 with the left side of V1. V1 then traveled to the right and impacted the right side guardrail again, then shot out to the left at a 45 degree angle across all lanes to the left, and impacted the cable barrier in the center median. V1 came to rest facing westbound in some sticker bushes. V2 drove over to the right shoulder. V2 was not disabled and was driven away from the scene. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1's pre-crash factors are mostly unknown, as he was unable to be reached for interview. The driver stated he drank every day and Medical records confirmed this and further indicated the driver was of reduced mental capabilities (e.g., not oriented to time, place or purpose). Toxicology and tests for alcohol were negative. The medical staff diagnosed the driver as having a neurological event, siezure and very high blood pressure for which he had not been taking any medication for. They further indicated that he was unconscious prior to the crash events.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason was coded as a driver related factor: heart attack or other impairment of the ability to act. Poor directional control was an associative factor. The driver had a seizure while driving and was pressing on the accelerator.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 coded other this vehicle not involved in first harmful event.