This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The east/west roadway is straight and divided by a curbed median. The eastbound approach lanes have a downhill grade and consist of two through lanes and a left turn lane. The speed limit for this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). The north/south roadway south of the intersection is straight and divided by a curbed median. The two northbound approach lanes have an uphill grade. The speed limit for this roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). This crash occurred during afternoon daylight hours. It was snowing at the time of the crash and the roads were covered in ice.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1988 Jeep Cherokee, was eastbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Dodge Neon, was northbound in lane two. In the intersection, the front of V1 struck the left side of V2. V2 rotated clockwise and the right side of V1 struck the left side of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1 and 0 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a sixteen-year-old male, was on his way home from school. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver had five months of driving experience at the time of the crash. He stated that he thought the light was green and proceeded into the intersection. The police report indicates that this driver was distracted.

The driver of V2, an eighteen-year-old male, was on his way home from school. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver had six months of driving experience at the time of the crash. He stated that he saw V1 just a second before the crash and applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid V1.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see). This driver's inexperience was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was not coded to this vehicle. This driver's inexperience was an associated factor in this crash.