The crash occurred on a two lane undivided roadway. The northbound lane had an upward slope greater than two percent. The road was straight and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). It was the early morning on a weekend. Traffic flow was light. The roads were wet from a weeklong rain that continued until the early morning of the crash. The rain had stopped an hour before the crash.

V1, a 2000 Dodge Durango utility vehicle, was driven by a 27-year-old male who was traveling with his 26 year old girlfriend and his two small children. V1 was traveling in the northbound lane of the roadway heading uphill when he lost control of his vehicle. The vehicle fishtailed clockwise and then counterclockwise. It then entered the southbound lane where V2 was traveling, approaching V1. The front of V1 struck the left rear side of V2. V1 then rotated 135 degrees before coming to rest on the lawn of a residential home. After being struck, V2 entered the northbound lane, rotated 270 degrees, and then departed the left side of the roadway. No one was injured or transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 2003 Cadillac DTS 4-door sedan, was driven by a 58-year-old male who was traveling alone. Prior to the impact, the driver of V2 was proceeding southbound when he observed V1 losing control. He pulled over to the side of the road to avoid a collision with V1. The avoidance maneuver was unsuccessful. V1 entered V2's roadway and struck it in the left rear where it pushed it out of control. V2 skidded over onto the opposite side of the roadway where it departed the roadway.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle control loss due to traveling too fast for conditions. The Critical Reason for Critical Pre-crash Event was a driver related factor, traveling too fast for conditions. The roads were wet from rain earlier in the day. Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include conversation with the passenger and the wet roadway. A certain part of the road seemed to be slicker than the rest. That area was where the driver of V1 stated that he lost control of his vehicle.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. One associated factor that was coded was the wet roadway.