This single-vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane asphalt roadway in a rural area with various curves and elevations. The eastbound lane curves right and is uphill in the area of the crash. The speed limit is 104 kmph (65 mph). It was snowing at the time of the crash and the roadway was icy. The crash occurred during early morning hours.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Mercury Grand Marquis sedan, was eastbound traveling at 72 - 80 kmph (45 - 50 mph) when it began to slide to the right on the icy roadway. The driver applied his brakes and steered left but the vehicle continued to rotate clockwise as it departed the right road edge. V1 contacted the dirt embankment with its front left side plane. The vehicle continued to rotate clockwise and after contacting the uneven muddy shoulder with its undercarriage, V1 again contacted the dirt embankment with its rear left side plane and came to rest facing north. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1, a seventy five (75) year-old male, was traveling with his wife to visit their son and his family in another town. He had been driving for 2 hours when the crash occurred. He drives the road monthly and is very comfortable with his vehicle and the route driven. He stated the snow began coming down several kilometers/miles prior to the crash location and the roadsides were covered with several centimeters/inches of snow. He stated the lane was icy and the vehicle began to slide to the right. He applied his brakes and steered left but the vehicle continued to rotate and departed the right road edge and struck the embankment. It spun all the way around and came to rest on the shoulder facing perpendicular to the road. The driver is in good health and takes a daily dose of Lipitor for high cholesterol as well as Aricept to hopefully prevent any dementia that runs in his family. The tires on V1 were all slightly under-inflated from recommended pressure, but had good tread depth.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle control loss due to - poor road conditions, ice on roadway. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded as an environment related factor: slick roads.