The crash occurred on the east/west roadway of a four-way intersection. There were three lanes running northbound with lane three being a left turn lane, and two lanes running southbound. On the east/west roadway there was one lane running eastbound and two lanes running westbound with lane one being a right turn only lane. The roadway was straight, level and dry. The condition were clear on a weekday morning during rush hour. The posted speed was 56 KPH (35 mph).

V1 was a 2007 BMW traveling north making a right turn at the corner. V2, a 1999 Cadillac Deville was stopped at the red light in lane one heading east waiting to make a right turn at the corner. V3, a 1996 Jeep Cherokee was behind V2 in lane one also stopped at the red light waiting to turn right. V1's front hit V2's back left end and then hit V3's front right end. The driver of V1 was cited for the crash but no one was injured. V1 and V2 were towed due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

V1 was driven by a 37-year-old male who was on his way to work. He stated in the interview that he travels this same route everyday to get to work. He stated that the roads were a little wet from rain and when he turned the corner he hydroplaned on some wet road when he decided to make a quick right turn. (Pictures taken 15 minutes after crash show dry roads.) The driver admitted to being on his Bluetooth and was having a conversation with his friend. The driver then hit both V2 and V3 who were stopped at the intersection waiting at the red light to make a right turn. V1 was cited for the crash. An associative factor to this driver was an internal distraction as he was on his cell phone. Another factor was that he was traveling too fast for the conditions and for the turn. Another factor was that the driver said he panicked once he hit the wetness and did not know what to do to avoid the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was “this vehicle traveling turning right at a traffic light”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was “too fast for turn”. He was cited for the crash.

A 54-year-old male who was on his way to drop his wife off at work drove V2. The driver stated in the interview that he was stopped in lane one at the red light. He stated that he saw the Red BMW attempting to make a right hand turn and he was going way too fast to negotiate the turn causing him to crash into V2 and V3. There were no associative factors related to this driver. His vehicle was towed due to damages. He was not injured.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was “other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over the left lane line”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle, as he was not thought to have contributed to the crash.

A 29-year-old male who had just done some grocery shopping at the local grocery store drove V3. The driver was stopped behind V2 in lane one. He was waiting to make a right hand turn when he too was hit by V1. The driver of V3 stated that he too saw V1 make the right hand turn too fast which caused him to lose control. V1 hit the front right of his Jeep. There were no associative factors related to this driver. His vehicle was not towed.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V3 was not coded, as he was not involved in the first harmful event. The Critical Reason was also not coded.