The crash occurred in the center of a "T" intersection composed of a two-lane east/west roadway, and a two-lane north/southbound roadway. Both roadways were bituminous. The east/west roadway had a 3% uphill grade and a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45mph). The north/southbound roadway had a 2.5% uphill grade with posted speed limits of 40 kmph (25 mph). A Stop Sign controlled the southbound roadway. It was afternoon on a weekend. The roads were dry and the traffic flow was light.

V1, a 2004 Honda Odyssey with 2 occupants, was traveling south, and after observing the Stop sign it attempted to turn left at the intersection was struck by V2 on the left side. V2, a 2001 Dodge Durango with one occupant, was traveling west as it passed through the intersection and struck V1. V2 continued on until final rest where it burst into flames. V2 attempted to avoid the collision by applying her brakes and steering right. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 50-year-old male and occupied by a 54-year-old male. Both occupants were injured and the driver was transported to the hospital. Driver 1 stated that he observed the Stop sign, looking both ways. Driver 1 observed V2 approaching, and misjudging the sped of V2's approach as well as the distance, attempted to turn left. V1 made no avoidance maneuver.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "This Vehicle Traveling-Turning left at intersection". The Critical reason for the Critical Event was "Driver Related Factor- Misjudgment of gap or other's speed". No associated factors were assigned.

The Driver of V2, a 40-year-old female, reported injuries and was transported. Driver stated that she was traveling at approximately 72 kmph (45 mph) as she entered the intersection, when V2 turned across her path and she struck V1 on the left side. V2 attempted to avoid V1 by applying her brakes and steering right.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "Other vheicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into opposite direction". No Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. The following associated factor was assigned. Alcohol/Drugs "Any medications-yes (unspecified anti-seizure medication).