The crash occurred on a two-way, two-lane, straight, bituminous road with a posted speed limit of 80 kmph (50 mph) near the intersection of a two-way, two-lane private road on the north. The northbound road had an uphill slope approaching the intersection with the private road. Conditions at the time of the weekend afternoon crash were daylight, clear and dry.

V1, a 2002 Toyata Prius hybrid 4-door sedan, was traveling northbound on the roadway. V2, a 1997 GMC Jimmy SLT 4-door sports utility vehicle, was traveling southbound on the roadway. A non-contact vehicle was traveling southbound in front of V2. The non-contact vehicle turned left and stopped in the northbound lane while V1 was coming down the street. V1 saw this vehicle stopped and swerved to the right to avoid hitting it. As she tried to get back on the road V1 lost control of her vehicle, crossing the double yellow lines and hitting V2 head-on. V1 came to a stop facing northwest following the impact. V2 came to a stop in the road facing southeast. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 48 year-old female who was fully restrained and transported to a local trauma center due to injuries. She stated that she was heading north on the road at 80 kmph (50 mph) (on cruise control), going home from church. A van (non-contact) that was coming the from the opposite direction turned left in front of her and stopped in her lane. She realized she was going to hit him broadside and saw there was a passenger in the front seat. She swerved right and went around the front of him. She then swerved left to get back on the road. At this point, she was heading off the road to the left at a pole so she steered to the right again and she then struck V2 head-on. She does not know if she had time to brake.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to the driver of V1 was 'this vehicle traveling over the lane line on left side of travel lane.' The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded was a 'driver related performance error of overcompensation.' Also coded was 'ineffective/unsuccessful evasive action'. A Contributing Factor coded to this driver was 'successful avoidance maneuver to a prior critical event.'

V2 was driven by a 48 year-old male who was on his way home after picking up his daughter from a party. He saw a van ahead of him start to turn left and then stop in the road across the northbound lane. He saw V1 which had been northbound, swerve around the van (on the right) and then swerve back onto the road. V1 came too far over and V1's front hit V2's front. The driver of V2 stated that he had no time to avoid the crash. The fully restrained driver accompanied his 17 year-old daughter, who was the front right passenger, to a local trauma center where she was transported due to injuries.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to the driver of V2 was 'other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over the left lane line.' The Critical Reason was not coded to this driver. An Associated Factor coded to this driver was that he rarely drove on the road where the crash occurred.

The witness behind V1 stated that they were traveling about 72 kmph (45 mph) when a non-contact van traveling in the opposite direction decided to turn left in front of V1 onto the private road. The van stopped in the road in the northbound lane in front of V1. The driver of V1 swerved to the right in the intersection to avoid the van, and then over-corrected and swerved back to the left and crossed the centerline. The front of V1 struck the front of V2 in the southbound lane.