This two-vehicle crash occurred a few hours past noon on a Thursday. The location was a bituminous four lane, undivided, east west roadway, with two lanes in each direction. The impact occurred at the entrance to a private drive. The weather was clear and dry and visibility was clear. The posted speed limit was 40 kmph (25 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Toyota Corolla 4 door sedan with one occupant, was eastbound in lane two. The vehicle stopped for over 10 seconds waiting for traffic to clear to attempt a left turn into a private drive. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Chevy Corsica 4 door with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane one. A semi-truck was also westbound in lane two; this vehicle was stopped waiting to make a left turn into a driveway. As V1 initiated a left turn in front of the stopped semi into a private driveway, the front of V2 struck the right side of V1. V1 rolled to the left coming to rest on its roof in the driveway. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Neither of the occupants was injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 34 year-old male, was alone in the vehicle and reported being in good health with no hearing restrictions. He was not in a hurry; he was headed to a warehouse inside the private driveway to pick up something prior to heading home. He had just left work a few minutes prior. He only drives on the roadway monthly, and had only driven the car 6-10 times, it is a rental car, as his van was in the repair shop. He was very comfortable with the condition of his vehicle. He was well rested, and had no distractions, but did state that the truck may have blocked his view, but he looked and did not see the other vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: turned with obstructed view. The stopped semi blocked the view of both drivers.

The driver of V2, a 27 year-old male, was alone in the vehicle and reported being in good health with no hearing or sight restrictions. He was not in a hurry; he was headed home from work and had been on the road for about 45 minutes. He drives this route weekly, and is very comfortable and familiar with his vehicle. He was well rested, and had no distractions. He applied the brakes prior to impact but could not avoid V1.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. A critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle.