This two-vehicle head on crash occurred on a two lane county roadway. This roadway is in a rural area with various turns and grades. This road runs north to south with a posted speed of 64 kmph (40 mph). At the area of this event the road curves left for the northbound vehicle then straightens for 98 meters (321.5 feet). This crash occurred during the late afternoon during daylight hours and no adverse weather.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Ford F150 pick-up, was north bound and negotiating a left hand curve when it crossed the centerline with the left side tires. As V1 exited the curve the driver crossed the northbound lane and exited the roadway with the right side tires. The driver then input left hand steering and crossed the northbound lane and the centerline and impacted vehicle two (V2) with its front plane. V1 was pushed rearward and counter-clockwise where it came to rest in the southbound travel lane heading in a westerly direction. The 46 year-old male driver of V1 was fatally injured and pronounced dead at the scene. The autopsy indicated positive tests for Benzodiapines, Diazepam, Morphine and Hydrocodone; and, negative results for alcohol. V1 was towed for damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Chevrolet delivery van, was southbound when the driver saw V1 steer across the centerline and off the north side of the roadway. The driver stated he saw V1 then come back onto the roadway and across the centerline. This driver applied braking and steered right in an avoidance maneuver but was not able to avoid V1. The driver and one passenger received minor injures and were transported, treated and released. V2 was towed for damage.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason for the critical event coded to V1 as a driver related factor: overcompensation. Poor directional control, aggressive driving and driving too fast were associative factors for this driver.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over the left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.