The crash occurred on a north/south two-lane undivided roadway on a sharp left curve. The bituminous roadway had a superelevation of 3 percent and a downhill grade of 10 percent. The advisory speed on the curve was 32 kmph (20 mph). It was early morning on a weekday and the road was dry and the weather was clear.

V1, a 2002 Ford Thunderbird convertible, was traveling northbound. V1 departed the right edge of the roadway and struck a garden stone on private property. The vehicle continued off the edge of the roadway and struck a mailbox, scraped the undercarriage of the vehicle on a raised curb, struck a second mailbox, struck a sign post, a first tree, a second tree, and came to final rest 2.9 meters from the edge of the roadway at a northwest heading angle against a third tree. The vehicle traveled 60.7 meters from initial contact to final rest and was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1.

The Ford Thunderbird was driven by a 67-year old male who refused treatment by EMS. The driver at the scene was visibly shaken at the scene, but advised he travels this road every day and just "didn't negotiate the curve". The driver also stated he was traveling at a speed of 64-72 kmph (40-45 mph). The driver was very concerned about his vehicle and kept asking when his wife was coming to pick him up.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event was "this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver related factor; too fast for curve/turn. The driver, who has a medical history of diabetes, high blood pressure and high cholesterol, traveled this road daily to and from work and felt rested during this leg of the trip. The driver takes numerous medications daily for his medical conditions and stated he was in good general health. The driver also stated he has been driving for 53 years and felt very comfortable with this vehicle.

It should be noted that the driver went to his personal doctor later that day and a pacemaker was put in for a heart arrhythmia. It is unknown if this was a factor in the crash.