The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. The north/south roadway was two-way with one lane in each direction. The east/west roadway was two-way with one lane in each direction; the eastbound direction had a downhill grade measurement of -2/61. The roadways were straight, bituminous with a speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). It was an afternoon of a weekend, it was raining and the roads were wet.

V1, a 2002 Dodge Intrepid four door with two occupants, was traveling eastbound in lane one. V2, a 2002 Hyundai Accent four door with two occupants, was traveling westbound in lane one. At the intersection, V2 attempted to make a left at the intersection and the front of V2 impacted the front of V1. Both vehicles came to a final rest shortly after impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Dodge Intrepid, was driven by a 58 year-old male who reported no injuries. A 56 year-old female occupant also reported no injuries. The driver advised that he was traveling from shopping to home. He advised that V2 was traveling in the opposite direction and suddenly made a left turn in front of him, he attempted to brake but was unable to avoid the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V1, was "other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over left lane line". The Critical Reason for the Critical event was not coded to the driver. Rain was coded as weather related factor. No other Associated factors were coded to the driver.

V2, the Hyundai Accent, was driven by a 22 year-old male who reported no injuries. A 22 year-old female occupant reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. The driver reported that he was traveling from a friend's house and on his way to a concert. He advised that he was attempting to make a left turn at the intersection when he was impacted by V1.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V2 was, "this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical event was coded as a Driver related factor, "inattention". One Associated factor for this driver was fatigue. The driver normally slept 12 hours a day, but got only 4 and a half hours of sleep prior to the crash. Another Associated factor was an Inattention factor; he was thinking about the concert and was also conversing with his girlfriend. An Experience factor was coded as an inexperience driver because it was the first time on this road, and he had his license for 7 months. He did not have the right of way, and rain was coded as Weather related factor.