This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. Both trafficways are straight, level and divided by a curbed median. The approach roadways consist of two through lanes, two left turn lanes and a right turn lane. The speed limit for the east/west roadway is 89 kmph (55 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Chevrolet Monte Carlo, was eastbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Geo Prizm, was stopped westbound in lane four, waiting to turn left. V2 turned left and the right side was struck by the front of V1. The vehicles rotated and the left side of V1 struck the right side of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-nine-year-old male, was on his way to work from his home. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route weekly. This driver stated that he saw V2 but thought that that driver would wait to turn until V1 cleared the intersection. When he realized that V2 was turning, the driver of V1 steered right and applied the brakes (skidding longitudinally) in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The driver of V2, a forty-seven-year-old male, was on his way to a medical appointment from his home. He was well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He rarely travels this route. This driver stated that he was focused on his turn destination and did not see V1 prior to the crash. This driver has high blood pressure and a seizure disorder and takes Phenobarbital and Dilantin.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's assumption that the other driver would yield the right-of-way was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)."