This two-vehicle rear end crash occurred prior to an intersection controlled by traffic signals. For northbound traffic, there are three through lanes and a left turn lane. To the east of the impact location, there is an alley. The intersection is located 50 meters (164 feet) south of the impact location. The crash occurred on a weekday during early morning hours. It was dark but the roadway was illuminated. The concrete roadway is straight and level. The surface was wet however it had stopped raining. The speed limit is 56 kph (35 miles) for the north/south direction. There was low to medium traffic.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Chevrolet Impala with one occupant was traveling north in the third lane of traffic. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Mack single unit truck with one occupant was traveling ahead of V1 and was decelerating. The front of V1 impacted the rear of V2. Both vehicles came to rest adjacent to the impact location. V1 was towed from the scene. V2 was driven from the scene. After brief medical treatment at the scene, the driver of V1 was taken to a local hospital by private transportation. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 78-year old female drove V1. She was heading from her home to work. She is in general good health, was well rested and did not take any medication prior to the crash. She drives on this roadway every day. She works a 34-38 hour job at a grocery store, despite her high age. The day before the crash was a holiday. She stated V2 was turning right, blocking all three lanes of the roadway. She did not notice any lights in the back of the truck. When she realized V2 was slow or not moving, she applied her brakes but slid into the rear of V2 due to the wet roads.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded "other motor vehicle in lane-other vehicle decelerating." The critical reason for the critical event was coded "driver related error - inadequate surveillance, looked but did not see." During a brief interview at the scene, the driver of V1 first told the researcher V2 was going slow. It seemed to her the driver of V2 was looking for an address. During a complete interview on the phone later she claimed V2 attempted to turn right into the nearby alley. It would be highly unlikely this truck was turning right into an alley of private housing. When police and researcher arrived at the scene, the truck was already moved into the alley in an attempt to clear the scene. V1 was still at its final rest position. V1's damage and final rest position suggest V1 applied its brakes and steered to the right to avoid the crash rather than impacting V2 while turning right. The final rest of V1 further indicated there would have been not enough space for the truck to turn right from its position at the time of the impact.

A 28-year old male drove V2. This truck was used to transport large industrial type dump containers. The driver possesses a valid truck driver's license. He did not speak English but was briefly interviewed by a Spanish speaking police officer on scene. The driver stated to police he was decelerating in his lane of travel when V1 impacted the rear of his truck.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded "this vehicle traveling-this vehicle decelerating." No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle.