This is a two-vehicle, crash that occurred in the intersection of a six-lane roadway, and a three-lane roadway controlled by overhead traffic signals with pedestrian indicators. The six-lane roadway has a two-way center turn lane. This crash occurred in the number one eastbound lane of the six-lane roadway. The speed limit on the roadway where the crash occurred is posted 56 kmph (35 mph) for both directions of travel. The location is straight and level. This crash occurred early afternoon, the roadway was constructed of dry asphalt and the weather was clear.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Pontiac Grand Am SE four door with two occupants, was westbound in the number four left-turn lane. The driver was making a U-Turn on a green light into the eastbound number one travel lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Nissan X-Terra four door utility vehicle, was traveling east in the number one lane. V1 made a U-Turn across the path of V2. The driver of V1 was looking left at the intended travel lane and did not see V2. The driver of V2 braked to avoid but impacted V1 in the right side at the right front wheel. V1 was towed. V2 was not towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1 was a twenty-one (21) year old female. The driver stated that she was moving from California to Oklahoma and had exited the freeway to locate a place to eat. She stated that she became confused by the street signs and was attempting to make a U-Turn to reverse her direction. She stated she was looking at the intended destination to her left and did not see oncoming V2. She did not make any avoidance efforts. The front of V2 struck the right side of V1 on the right front wheel. The vehicle's stopped at the point of impact and were then moved to the right edge of the roadway.

The driver of V2, a nineteen (19) year- old male, stated he was traveling eastbound in the number one lane traveling about 48 kmph (30 mph). He approached the intersection and saw V1 in the center turn lane. He thought she would yield to him and she did not. She turned across his path of travel. He braked without lockup and the left front of his vehicle struck the right side of V1. He said they stopped near the point of impact in the number one lane. He said they then moved to the right curb edge for safety reasons.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). An illegal maneuver was also a factor for this driver.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.