This single-vehicle crash occurred off the left side of a four-lane interstate. This stretch was level with a grade of 5 percent. The roadway curved to the left and had a 4 percent super-elevation. A grass median divided east/west traffic and positive metal guardrails were present on both sides of the roadway. This road contained new cement with rumble strips present on both sides. The authorized speed limit was 105 kmph (65 mph). Setting was afternoon hours on a weekday. The roadway was wet due to a heavy rainstorm that began just prior to the crash. The skies were cloudy and traffic flow was moderate.

V1 was a 2000 Nissan Quest minivan with one occupant who was traveling westbound in lane three. While negotiating a left curve, V1 lost control in its original travel lane. V1 started to rotate in a counterclockwise manner, departing its travel lane to the left. V1 entered the paved shoulder while continuing in a counterclockwise rotation and struck the W-beam metal guardrail with its front-plane (event 1). V1 contacted the guardrail at a junction point causing the two sections that were bolted together to separate. A section of guardrail then penetrated the right-front wheel well and firewall, intruding into the passenger compartment (event 2). The guardrail section traveled through the vehicle and exited out the left-passenger side door. V1 then rotated clockwise through the grass median striking the grass embankment with its back plane (event 3). V1 came to final rest facing north 8.9 meters (29 feet) from initial contact point with the section of guardrail impaled through it. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1 was a 26 year-old female who was transported from the scene with evident injuries. She was a full-time phone counselor who worked 40 hours per week. On this cloudy, rainy day she was commuting to work down a road she drove daily. She reported that the rain was coming down "very heavily" and she had her windshield wipers on high. She said that as she rounded the left curve at 105 kmph (65 mph), she hit a "water hole" in the roadway. This caused her vehicle to hydroplane and travel toward the left guardrail. She became scared and hit the brakes even though she knew that was a bad idea. She thinks her car spun around and then struck the guardrail head-on. Her vehicle then traveled through the guardrail and came to rest in the grass median. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle control loss due to traveling too fast for conditions." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "Traveling too fast for conditions." Associated factors coded to the driver include a tire deficiency, as V1's rear tires contained inadequate amounts of tread depth, the wet roadway, and the heavy rain. No evidence of standing water was found. The driver also took inappropriate evasive action by slamming on her brakes. Other associated factors include the physical conditions of sleep apnea, depression, bronchitis, and chronic back pain for which this driver takes medications. The driver used CPAP treatment for her sleep apnea; however she reported poor sleep quality and therefore was likely fatigued even thought she claimed to be rested.