This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged intersection. The east/west trafficway is straight and divided by a curbed median. The speed limit for this trafficway is 56 kmph (35 mph). Both approaches consist of three through lanes and a left turn lane. The eastbound approach has an uphill grade and the westbound approach has a downhill grade. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions. Traffic was congested at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Nissan Altima, was eastbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Jeep Cherokee, was stopped westbound in lane four. Non-contact vehicles were stopped in eastbound lanes two and three. V2 entered the intersection, turning left, and the front struck the front of V1. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-eight-year-old female, was traveling with her twenty-eight-year-old sister. They were on their way home from getting a license plate at the Department of Motor Vehicles. This driver was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. She travels this roadway daily. This driver stated that she was talking with her sister prior to the crash. She further stated that she saw V2 just before entering the intersection and applied the brakes (skidding longitudinally) in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The driver of V2, a sixteen-year-old female, had left home and was stopping at a coffee shop before picking up her sister. She was well rested, healthy and familiar with her vehicle. She has one year of driving experience. She has attention deficit disorder and takes the medications Wellbutrin and Allegra. This driver stated that the drivers of the stopped vehicles indicated that it was clear for her to turn. She further stated that she did not see V1 prior to the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's speed and the distraction of talking to her passenger were associated factors in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "driver related factor; turned with obstructed view." This driver inexperience was an associated factor in this crash.