The crash occurred in the in the intersection of two roadways. One had two northbound lanes and two southbound lanes with a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). The other roadway had one eastbound lane and one westbound lane with a posted speed of 40 kmph (25 mph). Both roadways were straight, level, and bituminous roadways. It was evening on a holiday weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic was flowing.

V1, a GMC Yukon four door with seven occupants was traveling northbound in lane two. V1 was approaching the intersection intending to go straight. V2, a 2007 Chevrolet Malibu four door with two occupants was traveling westbound in lane one. V2 was approaching the intersection intending to go straight. The driver of V1 stated that he looked at the light and it was green. Then the passenger changed the radio station and he looked down to see what she was doing. When he looked back up he was already in the intersection. He saw V2 just before impact and he attempted to apply the brakes. The driver of V2 stated that she had been stopped at a red light. The light turned green and she looked both ways she did not see any vehicles so she started to proceed. When she looked left again she saw V1. She attempted to steer right and apply the brakes but could not avoid V1. The front of V1 contacted the left of V2 before they both came to final rest in the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the GMC Yukon was driven by a 15-year old male who reported no injuries and refused treatment. He stated that he and the passengers were coming from the golf club and were on their way home. He stated that he had been traveling between 67-80 kmph (41-50 mph) when he made the evasive action to avoid contacting V2. He could not stop in time.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V1 was: "other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street across path". The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to this driver were that he was an inexperienced driver (only driving for 12 months) and inadequate surveillance; he failed to look far enough ahead. Also he failed to stop for traffic control device and rarely drove this roadway.

V2, the Chevrolet Malibu was driven by a 29-year old female who was transported to a local trauma facility with serious injuries. She stated that she and the passenger were coming from her boyfriend's grandmother's house and were on their way to an ice cream parlor. She stated that she had been stopped at the light for more than ten seconds prior to proceeding at a speed between 2-16 kmph. It was then that she attempted an avoidance action to avoid contacting V1. She could not stop in time.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V2 was: “this vehicle traveling, crossing over passing through intersection”. The Critical Reason was “inadequate surveillance”. Associated factors coded to this driver were that she was conversing with the passenger and she rarely drive roadway. Also she had inadequate surveillance, she failed to look either side ahead.