This two-vehicle crash occurred after a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. On the south side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a painted median and the northbound traffic lanes consist of a right-turn lane, a through lane, and a left-turn lane. This roadway is uphill, straight, and has a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred in the early afternoon on a weekend. There was stop-and-go traffic congestion.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Audi A4 with two occupants, was traveling northbound in lane two, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Subaru Impreza with two occupants, had just come to a stop behind congested traffic just north of the intersection. The driver of V1 steered to the right to avoid a collision, but was unable to clear the lane and the front of V1 impacted the back of V2. Both vehicles were moved to the shoulder prior to the researcher's arrival on-scene, but V1 presumably came to final rest near the point of impact facing north-northeast in lanes one and two north of the intersection. V2 was pushed to the left and came to final rest facing north-northwest in lane two, the painted median, and lane three north of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-six-year-old male, was driving from his home to go to a race. He was well rested, very comfortable with his vehicle, and drives this route weekly. He is in good health and takes no medications. He stated that he was talking to and looking at his wife just before the crash. He looked back at the road in time to steer quickly to the right to avoid a collision with V2, but didn't have enough time to apply the brakes.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction. Inadequate surveillance (failed to look far enough ahead) and false assumption (assumed other driver would continue to proceed) were coded as associative factors.

The driver of V2, a twenty-six-year-old female, was going home after a morning of shopping. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route weekly. She is in good health and takes no medications.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.