This two-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of a T-intersection. There was one lane in each direction east/westbound, it was a non-physically divided roadway with a wide painted center median. The intersecting street was a single one-way southbound street. Curbside parking was permitted on all sides of the streets. There was a stop sign located on the southwest corner - vehicle two's direction of travel. There were no traffic control devices for vehicle one's direction of travel. The asphalt roadways were dry and straight and there were no adverse weather conditions. Vehicle one's westbound direction of travel had a 4% downhill grade. Vehicle two's traveling direction grade was level. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred on a weekend during the late night dark hours, streetlights illuminated the roadway. The roadway was free of any defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.

Vehicle one, a 1996 Chrysler Town and Country mini-van, was traveling westbound when it contacted with its front the left side of vehicle two, a 1995 Buick Century 4-door sedan, traveling southbound through the intersection intending to make a left turn. After the impact, vehicle one rotated slightly clockwise coming to final rest facing southward. Vehicle two, after the impact, rotated 180 degrees counter-clockwise where it came to final rest also facing southward. Vehicle two's damages were disabling and it was later towed from the scene. Police recorded the crash on a non-reportable accident report. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a 18-year old female, explained how she was traveling westbound at approximately 40 mph approaching the intersection did see vehicle two enter the T-intersection from her right and come to a complete stop. She slammed on her brakes but it was too late. Her vehicle struck the left side of vehicle two. She said if vehicle two had continued traveling completing her left turn the crash would not have happened, She continued traveling through the intersection and thought the other vehicle would do the same allowing both vehicles clearance. She couldn't say for sure if she saw vehicle two stop before entering the intersection. She has two years of driving experience and travels on this street daily, to and from school. She was not injured.

The “Critical Pre-Crash Event” coded to V1 is: other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle includes: inexperience driver, she's been a license driver for only two years, assumed other driver would continue to proceed - without stopping.

The driver of vehicle two, a 20-year old female, said she was traveling southbound stopped for the stop sign for a couple of seconds before entering the intersection. As she proceeded intending to make a left turn, a cloud of smoke from a steam vent blocked her from seeing the traffic approaching from her left, so she stopped hoping all the other vehicles would do the same. She said she was afraid to continue traveling when she couldn't see where she was going. She travels on this street weekly and she's been driving for three years. She was treated by EMS at the scene for minor injuries.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V2 is: “this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection”. The Critical Reason coded to this vehicle is: “turned with obstructed view”. Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle include: inexperience driver, she's been a license driver for only three years, view obstruction, her view was obstructed by steam from a vent, stopping in lane.