This three-vehicle crash occurred on an eastbound, three lane, one-way, straight, concrete roadway with a +3.3% grade at the intersection of a six lane, undivided, straight, level, asphalt roadway. The southbound lanes consist of two through lanes and a left turn lane. The speed limit on both roadways is 56 kph (35 mph). This crash occurred during morning daylight hours on a weekend with moderate traffic. There were no adverse weather conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Lincoln Navigator with two occupants, was eastbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Nissan Xterra with one occupant, was southbound in lane two. Vehicle three (V3), a 2004 Lexus RX330 with one occupant, was stopped northbound in lane one. V1 entered the intersection and the front of V1 struck the right side of V2. V2 rotated counterclockwise and the front of V2 struck the left side of V3. V3 rotated clockwise and the right front wheel struck and mounted the curb before coming to rest facing northeast. V2 came to rest in with the front plane against V3. V1 came to rest in the intersection facing southwest. All three vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-four year-old female traveling with a twelve year-old female, was traveling from her son's football practice to lunch. She was well rested, in good health and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. She drives this route daily. This driver stated that she was unsure of the color of the traffic light when she entered the intersection. She also stated that she was conversing with her daughter, the right-front passenger and never saw V2 prior to impact.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor: internal distraction." This driver failed to look to her left to see V2 and was distracted with conversation with the right front passenger.

The driver of V2, a fifty-nine year-old female, was not interviewed. The driver has a history of arthritis, hypercholesterolemia, hypothyroidism and hypertension. Medication consists of Celebrex, Fosamax, Lisinopril, Hydrocodone/Acetaminophen, Lipitor and Synthroid.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment- from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."

The driver of V3, a fifty-five year-old male, was traveling from home to a mall. He was well rested, in good health and comfortable with his vehicle. He drives this route daily. The driver stated that he had been stopped at the signal for 1-2 seconds when the collision occurred.

The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded as "other; not involved in first harmful event." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was "not coded to this vehicle."