This crash occurred in a four-way intersection at the end of an exit ramp. There were two northbound lanes, two eastbound lanes, and two westbound lanes. The northbound lanes were straight with a slight uphill grade, were concrete, and had a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The eastbound lanes were straight with a slight downhill grade, were concrete, and had a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The northbound lanes were controlled by stop signs; the eastbound roadway had no traffic control device. It was mid-afternoon on a weekday and conditions were clear.

V1 was a 2003 Hyundai Accent 2-door driven by an 18 year-old female, with one passenger in the right front seat. V2 was a 2002 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan driven by a 63 year-old female, also with one passenger in the right front seat. V1 had exited a highway and proceeded northbound up the exit ramp in the second lane of travel to the intersection. The vehicle stopped at the stop sign and then proceeded into the intersection, intending to turn left into the westbound lanes. V2 was traveling eastbound in lane one when V1 pulled out from the stop sign in front of it. The front of V2 struck V1 in the left side. V1 was pushed across the intersection to final rest, and V2 came to final rest in the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was "driver related factor, inadequate surveillance, looked but did not see." The driver was talking with her mother whom she had just picked up from work. This most likely accounted for her being distracted and not seeing V2. The driver stated that she did look when she stopped at the stop sign, but never saw the other vehicle until it was about to impact her. She also stated that she thought that her view might have been obstructed by roadside signage. After checking the scene, this scenario was determined to be unlikely. Driver inexperience was also coded as an associated factor.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment, from crossing turning into opposite direction." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. The driver of V2 refused an interview, and so there were no associated factors coded to this vehicle.