This two-vehicle rear-end crash occurred in the eastbound lanes at a four-legged intersection. Eastbound approach is straight with a hillcrest as the vertical profile. There is no designated left turn lane for eastbound traffic to turn left and travel north, but there is a designated left turn lane present for westbound traffic to turn left and travel south. This roadway does contain a raised curb and sidewalks on the south side, as well as a marked breakdown lane for future road widening projects. The posted speed limit for this roadway is 72 kph (45 mph). Setting was morning hours on a weekday. Conditions were daylight and dry with mostly cloudy skies. Traffic flow was light to moderate at the crash time.

V1 is a 2007 Toyota Yaris, four-door with one occupant traveling eastbound in lane one. V2 is a 2000 Nissan Frontier, extended cab pickup with one occupant stopped in eastbound lane one, preparing to make a left turn, directly in front of V1. Since V2 was stopped on top of a hillcrest, it did not have its brakes applied as it waited for a break in westbound traffic. The front of V1 contacted the rear of V2 in the intersection (Event 1). No visible skid marks were left by V1 prior to impact. V1 traveled approximately 5.5 meters (18 feet) after impact coming to final rest in its original travel lane. V2 traveled 21.5 meters (71 feet) after impact coming to final rest in westbound lane two (the left turn lane) facing east. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 17 year-old female who suffered minor injuries that did not require transport. She received her driver's license 9 months ago and has been driving her car daily on this roadway. She works every other week babysitting for a family friend. On this day, she just left her house 2-3 minutes prior to the crash occurring. She was on her way to the babysitting job. She did have to be at work at a certain time, but reported not being late. She claims that as she was driving straight ahead, she decided to take her sunglasses off. As she was trying to remove her sunglasses from her head, she realized V2 was stopped in her lane. She was coming up on him so fast that she barely had time to apply the brakes, nor make any other avoidance actions. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 is "other vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event is "internal distraction”. She failed to look far enough ahead because she was focused on removing her sunglasses. She also may have not seen V2 because his brakes were not applied; therefore his red brakes lights were not activated or visible. She reported listening to her radio while driving, a non-driving factor. She only has 9 months driving experience, a driver experience factor. All four of her tires were under-inflated, a tire deficiency factor. The cloudy skies were the only atmospheric related factor in this crash.

The driver of V2 is a 58 year-old male who suffered minor injuries to the back of his head after it contacted the backlight of the truck, causing it to shatter, but did not require transport. He is retired and doesn't participate in any strenuous recreational activities. On this morning, he left his house with his granddaughter, dropped her off at school, and then picked up a few groceries at a store. He was on his way back home with the groceries on a roadway that he drives daily. As he approached the entrance to his neighborhood, he put his left turn signal on and waited for a break in on-coming traffic. He says while waiting he did not have his brakes applied. He glimpsed up in his rearview mirror and noticed a vehicle coming up on him quickly. He assumed and hoped that they would steer right onto the large paved shoulder like everyone else on this roadway does, but it became clear he was going to be hit from behind. He braced the wheel and closed his eyes momentarily. Once he was hit, he applied his brakes to avoid entering into oncoming traffic. He says he nearly missed colliding head-on into a white BMW approaching in the oncoming left turn lane. He says he had no reasonable avoidance actions to take. His vehicle was drivable and driven to his house around the block from the crash scene.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 is "Other Motor Vehicle in Lane, Traveling the Same Direction with a Higher Steady Speed." The Critical Reason was not coded to this driver. This driver suffers from psoriasis and rosacea and treats the conditions with prescription medication. This condition does not affect his ability to operate a motor vehicle. The cloudy skies were the only other associated factor for this driver.