This three-vehicle crash occurred just past a four-legged signal-controlled, urban intersection with pedestrian crosswalks and raised curbs and sidewalks. The southbound approach curved left with a 3 percent super-elevation. There were two southbound lanes and four northbound lanes. This roadway was divided by a double-yellow line. On the west roadside there was a bank building that was situated lower than the roadway. The grade from the roadway to the bank's parking lot was -20 percent. The posted speed limit on the north/south roadway was 72 kmph (45 mph). Setting was late morning hours on a weekend. Conditions were daylight and dry with cloudy skies. Traffic flow was light to moderate at the time.

V1 was a 2002 Mercury Grand Marquis four-door sedan with two occupants traveling southbound in lane one. V2 was a 2001 Dodge Dakota pickup truck with three occupants traveling southbound in lane two. V3 was a not-in-transport 2008 Ford Escape whose driver was withdrawing cash from the bank's ATM machine in the parking lot. The driver of V1 blacked out while driving and drove over the right curb, momentarily departing the roadway. The passenger of V1 grabbed the steering wheel and attempted to steer. V1 re-entered the roadway to the left and then departed its travel lane to the left and struck the right side of V2 with its left plane (Event 1). The passenger of V1 then jerked the wheel to the right, causing V1 to depart the roadway, go airborne, and strike a shrub with its front plane (Event 2). The distance from curb to the shrub was 11.5 meters (38 feet). The undercarriage of V1 then contacted the paved parking lot below (Event 3). V1 traveled 11.6 meters (38 feet) and struck a raised parking lot curb with its right front tire (Event 4). V1 continued forward 24.1 meters (79 feet) and struck a decorative brick pillar attached to the bank's drive-through with its front-plane (Event 5). Just beyond the brick pillar was an ATM machine. V1 contacted the ATM machine with its front-plane (Event 6). The flying debris from the brick pillar contacted V3's left side (Event 7). V1 came to final rest against the ATM machine 60.9 meters (200 feet) from initial contact with V2. V2 was drivable and was then parked on a side street. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1 and 89 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 74 year-old male who was transported from the scene with evident injuries. His family refused an interview stating, "They need their privacy and time to heal and recover from this traumatizing event." It was determined that this driver and his wife left their residence approximately 10 miles away and intended on going to church. The driver told police that his last memory of the day was exiting the interstate. The interstate was one mile from the crash scene. The driver had been fighting lung cancer that had been spreading for a long time. His family reported to police that he was receiving chemotherapy, unknown for how long. The driver was believed to have suffered a seizure due to cancer that had metastasized to his brain (according to medical reports).

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling over the lane line on left side of travel lane." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "Heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act." This driver blacked out while driving. Witnesses say his wife grabbed the wheel and started to steer. The EDR indicated that during the crash events, the driver's foot was on the gas pedal. The delta V was not higher than 6.62 MPH. It was unknown which event caused the airbags to deploy. There were no associated roadway or vehicle factors in this crash.

The driver of V2 was a 53 year-old male who was not injured in this crash. He works 65 hours per week, Monday through Friday in the healthcare related business. On this sunny, clear late morning, he, his son and daughter were all on a leisurely trip to church from their home two miles away. They reported being in lane two (left lane) traveling at 64 kmph (40 mph). He reported general family chat going on inside the vehicle at the time. As he was negotiating the left curve, all of a sudden V1 crossed from the right travel lane into his lane and struck his right side. He never saw V1 prior to impact due to looking straight ahead and driving. He thinks he may he steered left, but couldn't remember if he steered left prior to or after impact. He then saw V1 depart the road to the right and travel through a bank parking lot. He pulled his vehicle over and called for help. His vehicle suffered no visible damage and was driven from the scene.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "Other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane (same direction), over right lane line." The Critical Reason was not coded to this driver. This driver has high cholesterol and takes a daily prescription medication to treat it. He was conversing with his family just prior to the crash occurring.

The driver of V3 was a 44 year-old male who was not injured in the crash. He is a personal trainer who was on his way to work. He stopped by the bank to withdraw some cash. He says as he was peacefully operating the ATM machine, he looked up to see a vehicle (V1) come over the curb, go airborne and head toward him at a high rate of speed. He described V1 actions to a Hollywood action thriller that he had seen the night before with a friend involving fiery car crashes. He said V1 struck a brick pillar, then the ATM machine. He knows the flying debris bricks struck his vehicle, but was unsure if the ATM machine contacted him or not. This vehicle was not in transport and was not involved in the first harmful event.