This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged intersection. The east/west trafficway is straight and divided by a curbed median. Both approaches consist of two through lanes and a left turn lane at the intersection. The westbound approach has an uphill grade and the eastbound approach has a downhill grade. The speed limit for this trafficway is 72 kmph (45 mph). It was dark with streetlights on at the time of the crash and it was raining.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Nissan Altima, was westbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Ford Mustang, was eastbound in lane two. V1 turned left in the intersection and the right side was struck by the front of V2. V1 rotated and traveled off the southeast corner of the intersection. The front of V1 struck three concrete poles and two junction boxes. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-eight-year-old male, was on his way home from a friend's house. He was familiar with his vehicle and travels this route daily. This driver has depression and takes the medication Zoloft. He stated that he felt fatigued at the time of the crash. This driver further stated that he did not see V2 prior to the crash. The police report indicates a BAC result of 0.06 at the scene.

The driver of V2, a twenty-year-old male, was on his way from his home to a friend's house. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that he saw V1 just prior to the crash and applied the brakes (skidding longitudinally) in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."