This single vehicle crash occurred off the northbound side of a two-lane mountain roadway with various curves. This was a left curved, downhill, dark, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). It was mid evening and dark on a weekday and the road was dry with visible icy road treatment of sand and the sky was clear.

Vehicle one (V1), a four-door 1995 Nissan Pathfinder with three occupants, was in lane one negotiating a left curve traveling 56 kmph (35 mph). The driver lost control due to traveling 16 kmph (10 mph) over the posted speed limit and started to yaw counterclockwise. V1 ran off the right side of the road leading with its right side. The right rear wheel entered a ditch while rotating. The right rear wheel came off the ditch and V1 started to rotate clockwise. While rotating clockwise, V1 rolled over onto its left side and skid three meters to final rest. V1 came to rest on its left side facing east in lane one. The vehicle was towed from the scene of the crash due to moderate damage to the left side. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1.

An 18 year-old male was driving V1 and reported no injures. He stated he drives this roadway monthly because a friend lives up there. He had just left a grocery store and was heading to his friends house. He stated he hit a patch of black ice, which caused him to run off the right side of the road, hit a ditch and rollover. On the scene of the crash, the trooper and researcher did not find any black ice. The road was very dry with sand (icy road treatment) on it from the couple of snowstorms previous to this date. The driver stated he and his occupants were not talking or listening to the radio. The driver stated he was well rested and takes no medication. The tires on V1 were of good tread depth, but had a variety of inflation pressures (RR tire = 76 kpa/11 psi, LR tire = 172 kpa/25 psi, LF tire = 262 kpa/38 psi, RF tire = 221 kpa/32 psi).

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. The critical pre-crash reason was coded as a driver related factor: too fast for curve. Five associative factors were; a very dark mountain road, failed to look far enough ahead, speeding 16 kmph (10 mph) over the speed limit, drives mountain roads monthly and is an inexperienced driver, and the sand treatment on the roadway that reduced the friction of the surface.