The 2 vehicle crash occurred in lane 1 of 2 southbound lanes of a 4 lane, 2 way, straight, level, bituminous, urban roadway. At the time of the mid-morning, weekday crash it was daylight, clear and the roadway was dry. The posted speed limit was 72 kmph (45mph).

V1, a 2007 Pontiac 4 door solely occupied by the 58-year-old female driver, was southbound in lane one. V2, a Gillig city bus occupied by the 45-year-old male driver and 15 passengers, was legally stopped at a marked bus stop, with its flashers activated, in lane one. A passenger had just boarded the bus and sat down. The bus driver was watching in the rearview mirror as the passenger was taking his seat. He looked in his side mirror and saw a flash of red and then felt an impact. V1, front, contacted the rear of V2. Both vehicles came to final rest facing south in lane 1. The passenger of V1 was transported. V1 was towed due to damage. None of the occupants of V2 were injured. V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A statement was never obtained from the driver of V1. The medical report states “there was questionable loss of consciousness.” She has a condition which makes her pass out (TIA) and she is taking Coumadin for this condition. She was on several different medications - Lasix, Protonix, Lisinopril, Sulindac, Warfarin, Furosemide, Cylindas. She also tested positive for Opiates.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped". The Critical Reason for the critical pre-crash event is "heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act". It is known that the vehicle was nearly new and appeared in good mechanical condition. Also, that there were no adverse weather conditions. There was also an absence of any indications of any avoidance actions.

The driver of V2 stated that he was stopped at a regular marked bus stop on a familiar route and was on time. He had the appropriate flashers activated for a stopped, municipal bus on duty. A passenger had just boarded the bus and sat down when the driver saw a flash of red in his side mirror and then heard a "boom'. V2 had run into the back of the bus.

The Critical pre-crash event for V2 was “other motor vehicle in lane traveling in the same direction with higher speed". The Critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.