This two-vehicle crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a six-lane undivided state highway. There were three lanes in each direction, two through lanes and one center left turn lane. This was a straight, uphill, bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 64 kmph (40 mph) for southbound travel. It was early afternoon on a weekday during lunch hour traffic and the road was wet from melting ice and the sky was clear. A previous crash had occurred six blocks to the south of this crash, which caused the forward southbound traffic to stop in the roadway.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Mazda Miata two-door convertible with one occupant, was southbound in lane two going straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Oldsmobile Delta 88 four-door sedan with one occupant, was southbound stopped in lane two in front of V1 due to congested traffic created by a previous crash. V2 stopped for traffic ahead and V1 did not. The driver of V1 applied the ABS brakes and steered slightly to the left to avoid the impact, but the front of V1 impacted the back of V2. V1 entered lane three and came to rest on its wheels facing south. V2 came to rest on its wheels in lane two facing slightly southeast. V1 was towed from the scene due to moderate frontal damage. V2 was driven from the scene with minor back damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

V1, the Mazda Miata, was driven by a 27 year-old male who reported no injures. He was on his way to back to work from lunch. He stated he was looking left, but does not know why and when he turned his head forward again, V2 was stopped. He stated he applied his brakes and slid on ice into V2's back (there was no ice on the roadway but travel lanes were wet). He stated he did not know how much sleep he had gotten the night before the crash, but felt rested at the start of this trip. He also stated he does not like the vehicle he was driving because it is too small. The smallness of his vehicle in relation to V2 may have blocked his view of traffic further down the road slowing up and a need for greater caution. The vehicle inspection revealed that the tires had a tread depth of just 1-2 mm (1-2/32") and were all under-inflated. This would increase the stopping distance on a wet roadway.

An 85 year-old female who reported a sore neck and declined medical treatment drove V2, the Oldsmobile Delta 88. She was on her way home from going to a store. She said traffic stopped and so did she. She was stopped for one to two seconds before she was impacted in the back. She stated that she has sleep apnea and uses the CPAP treatment and still does not sleep very well, but does feel rested when she finally gets up. She has arthritis and high blood pressure, which does not affect her driving. She takes a high blood pressure pill, a thyroid pill, a pill for cholesterol, Baycol, Vitamins, Calcium and Clonidine. She has to wear bifocals and a hearing aid.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: external distraction, for looking to his left. There were several associative factors; he was late for work, traffic was congested due to a previous collision, low tread depth & under-inflated tires, and he did not look far enough ahead for traffic that was stopped.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.