The crash occurred in the center of a four-way intersection composed of a two-lane north/southbound roadway, and a four-lane east/westbound physically divided roadway. The east/west roadway was bituminous and level, with a posted speed limit of 80 kmph (50 mph). The north/south roadway was bituminous with a 3% positive grade and a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The traffic lights that controlled the intersection were functioning properly. It was dawn on a weekday. The roads were wet and there was a light rain. Traffic flow was very light.

V1, a 2003 Chevrolet Avalanche with one occupant, was traveling west in lane two. V2, a 1989 Honda Civic with two occupants was traveling north in lane one. V2 was stopped at a signal and when the signal turned green V2 proceeded into the intersection and was struck by V1 on the right side. The impact caused V2 to spin counter-clockwise 180 degrees, mount the center median and then strike a traffic signal. V2 came to rest hanging from the center median. V1 continued west departing the roadway on the right, striking the guardrail and then crossing back left striking the center median before coming to rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Driver of V1, a 48-year-old male who reported a complaint of pain to the back and was transported, stated to on-scene personnel that he did not know what happened or who had the "green light". Unable to get an interview with this driver. V1 made no avoidance maneuver.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path". Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The following associated factors were assigned, failing to stop for TCD, slick road surface and rain.

A 63-year-old female who reported internal injuries to the abdomen drove V2. A 62-year-old female who reported bleeding to the head further occupied V2. Both occupants had to be extricated before being transported. The driver is non-English speaking. No translator was available. The interview was conducted, however the language barrier produced mixed results. Driver stated that she did not know what happened or who had the "green light". V2 made no avoidance maneuver.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "this vehicle traveling-crossing over (passing through) intersection". Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "Type of driver error unknown". The following associated factors were assigned, conversing with passenger, slick road surface, and rain.