This one-vehicle crash occurred during daylight hours on a weekday just east of a T-intersection. The roadway upon which vehicle one was traveling consisted of two lanes, one in each direction. The bituminous roadway had a slight right curve for traffic heading east, however it was level. There were no traffic control devices associated with this stretch of roadway. The posted speed limit was 40kmph (25mph). It had just rained heavily and the roadway was still wet from the precipitation. Traffic flow was not a factor in this crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1974 Alfa Romeo Iniezione, was heading east on the roadway intending to continue straight. V1 had just negotiated a right curve when the back of the vehicle began to fishtail to the left. The driver could not regain control and went off of the left side of the roadway where the front of the vehicle contacted a large tree. The vehicle came to final rest off the left side of the roadway against the tree. The vehicle had to be removed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1, a 50 year-old male, suffered incapacitating injuries as a result of the crash and was flown to a medical facility for treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A complete interview was obtained from this driver. He claimed that he was driving home from work and it had just rained heavily. He rarely drives on this roadway so he wasn't familiar with his surroundings. He was approaching the curve and said that there was a puddle and a drainage grate where the road curves. He also said there was a little rise in the roadway as well. He thinks that as he negotiated the curve he lost traction when he went over the puddle. Afterwards he claimed that the back of his car began to fish tail. He tried to regain control of the vehicle but to no avail. The vehicle went off of the left side of the roadway and contacted a tree. The driver relayed that he was well rested and in good physical health. He stated that his vehicle was in good working condition, however, the steering could be a little "tight" because it was not equipped with power steering.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was: This vehicle control loss due to poor road conditions -(puddle) caused by the recent heavy downpour. The Critical Reason was coded as: traveling too fast for conditions (i.e., wet road surface with standing water). Associated factors coded to this vehicle were a slick road surface and overcompensation.