This is a two-vehicle front-to-side crash that occurred in the intersection of two multiple -lane roadways. There was one east and one west travel lane and a four-lane roadway divided by a center left turn lane. The speed limit on the roadway where the crash occurred for eastbound travel is posted 40 kmph (25 mph). The posted speed limit for northbound travel was 56 kmph (35 mph). This was an evening crash just before dark . The roadway where the crash occurred is straight and level. The roadway was dry, constructed of asphalt and the sky was clear. There was a stop sign for eastbound travel and no traffic signals or signs for northbound travel.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Ford Focus 3 door hatchback with two occupants, was eastbound in the number one lane and stopped for a stop sign. V1 accelerated from the stop sign with vision obscured by a truck and tractor turning across its path. The driver went behind the tractor as it passed in front and was struck by northbound vehicle two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Ford F150 regular 4x2 pickup with two occupants was traveling north in the number two lane. V1 rotated clockwise at impact, continued forward, crossed a curb and sidewalk and struck a metal pole. V2 continued forward and drove to a stop off the roadway on the east shoulder. V1 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

An eighteen (18) year old male drove V1. The driver stated that he was stopped at a stop sign and entered the intersection with obscured vision. A truck towing a tractor was oncoming and made a left turn across the path of V1. The tractor passed in front and the driver of V1, V1 accelerated to cross the intersection. He did not see V2 until the impact occurred. He said he did not attempt any evasive actions. The driver said he traveled the road daily, was in good health and takes no medication.

A forty eight (48) year old male drove V2. He stated he was traveling northbound in the number two lane about 40 kmph (25 mph). He said he saw a truck towing a tractor making a left turn across his path from the right side of the intersection and he slowed slightly. The driver of V2 stated that as the tractor passed a little red car drove in front of him. He attempted to avoid by steering left, was not successful, and struck the right rear of V1. The impact caused V1 to rotate clockwise and it jumped a curb and struck a metal pole. The driver of V2 drove his vehicle to a stop on the right shoulder beyond the intersection. V2 was not towed.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: turned with obstructed view.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.