This is a two-vehicle crash that occurred within the "T" intersection of a five-lane, two-lane roadway and a two-way roadway. The five-lane roadway had two southbound and two northbound lanes divided by a center turn lane. There were no traffic controls on this roadway. The speed limit on the roadway where the crash occurred is posted 56 kmph (35 mph). The intersecting north/south leg two-lane roadway, was separated by a double yellow lane line and controlled by a stop sign. This was an mid-afternoon crash . The roadways were dry, constructed of asphalt and the sky was clear.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Ford Mustang with one occupant, was southbound in the number one curb lane and stopped for the stop sign. The westbound lanes had heavy traffic and stopped to allow V-1 to make a left turn. V1 edged out into the westbound traffic lanes and began to make a left turn. V-2 was traveling west and entered the continuous center turn lane with the intent of turning left at the next street. V-1 made the left turn in front of V-2 as it entered the "T" intersection. V2 struck V1 front-to-front. The impact caused V1 to rotate clockwise rapidly and come to final rest within the center turn lane facing west, just west of the intersection. V2 continued forward after impact, entered the oncoming eastbound number one lane and came to rest facing generally westbound. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene. There were no injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.

A twenty year old male drove V1. The driver stated that he was traveling southbound from his home (10 minutes), and was going to a local mall. He said he stopped for the stop sign and waited for westbound traffic to clear. He said westbound traffic stopped and allowed him to edge out across traffic and make his left turn. He said he never saw V2. He cleared the first two lanes and was impacted by V2. He said he did not attempt any evasive actions. The driver said he traveled the road daily, was in good health, takes no medications, and did not require glasses. The driver said he slept about 11.5 hours the day of the crash.

A twenty-two (22) year old male drove V2. He said he was traveling westbound in the number three, center turn lane about 48 kmph (30 mph). He said he did not see V1 until it was in front of him. He said there was heavy traffic in the number one and two lanes. He was in good health, did not wear glasses and did not take any medications. He had slept 7.5 hours the night before.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: turned with obstructed view. The sight line was obstructed by vehicle traffic backed up in the first two lanes of the cross street.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, into opposite direction. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.