This crash occurred at a four-way intersection that included a railroad crossing, and the entrance to a grocery store. The southbound lanes curved to the right, were level, and had a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). The westbound lanes, leaving the parking lot were straight and level with a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). All roadways were bituminous. It was mid-afternoon on a weekday the roadway was wet and conditions were clear.

V1 was a 2001 GMC Sonoma, driven by a 74 year-old male. V2 was a 2005 Chevrolet Impala, driven by a 51 year-old female. V1 had been stopped at a red light in lane two, planning to turn left and travel southbound. The railroad crossing on the west side of the intersection was malfunctioning, causing the lights to remain red for vehicles traveling east and west, and green for north and south. After sitting for several minutes at the intersection V1 entered the intersection when the driver thought that the roadway was clear. As V1 crossed and began entering the southbound lane two it struck V2 in the drivers side door. The two vehicles contacted each other again in a side-slap motion and then came to final rest facing southbound. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection.” The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was “driver related factor, inadequate surveillance, looked but did not see.” The driver stated that he noticed that the light controls were malfunctioning, and decided to proceed through the red light. He stated he looked in both directions and never saw V2 coming from the north. It should be noted that the driver still assumes that V2 had made a right hand turn from the eastbound lanes across the railroad tracks. He said that he was looking past that roadway for vehicles traveling south. Upon researcher arrival at the scene, the control devices were still malfunctioning.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was “other motor vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, turning into same direction.” The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. The driver stated that she never saw V1 cross the intersection.