This two vehicle daytime collision occurred, shortly after the noon hour at four-leg intersection comprised by a north/south roadway and an east/west roadway. The north/south roadway is undivided, dry, asphalt, consists of five lanes, and has a -3.2% downgrade slope. The east/west roadway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of five lanes. Both roadways are designated 56 kmph (35 mph) zones. The intersection is controlled by an on-color signal that was functioning properly at the time of the collision.

Vehicle one (V1) is a 2002 Acura TL four-door sedan driven by a twenty five (25) year old male who was traveling southbound in the number three left-turn lane. Vehicle two (V2) is a 1998 Honda Prelude two-door coupe driven by a twenty three (23) year old male who was traveling northbound in the number two lane. As V1 attempted a left turn, its front plane contacted the front plane of V2. V1 came to rest facing southeast blocking the westbound number one and two lanes. V2 came to rest facing northeast blocking the westbound number two lane. V1 received moderate damage and was towed. V2 received moderate damage and was towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at Intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g.,failed to look, looked but did not see). The driver was watching the vehicle in front of him turning and did not look enough forward to see V2's presence until a second or so before impact. The driver was thinking about washing his vehicle later, and was on an errand from a friends house to a liquor store.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor for V2, the driver was checking tachometer shift indicator prior to entering the intersection, an interior distraction.