This two-vehicle crash occurred on an undivided five-lane roadway in the southbound lanes. There were three southbound lanes including one left turn-only lane. The crash occurred a few feet prior to a four-way intersection. Standard and overhead traffic signals controlled the intersection. The bituminous roadway was dry and straight with no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit was 48 kmph (30 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during the late-night dark hours with overhead streetlights illumining the road. The traffic flow was normal for this roadway and there were no noticeable defects.

Vehicle one, a 1995 Ford Windstar minivan, was traveling southbound in lane two of the southbound roadway when an unknown vehicle that was traveling in the first southbound lane suddenly entered lane two. The driver of V1 attempted to avoid contact with this unknown vehicle by steering left and braking. This action sent V1 into the third southbound lane where Vehicle two, a 2007 Honda Civic 2-door coupe was stopped at the red light. The front left of V1 struck the right rear of V2. After the initial impact, V1 traveled a few feet forward and rotated counterclockwise where it came to final rest facing southeast. After the initial impact, V2 was pushed forward slightly into the intersection, rotating counterclockwise before also coming to final rest facing southeast. V1 was towed from the scene. V2 was not towed. Neither driver was injured, and the EMS was cancelled minutes after arriving on scene. The police elected to record the crash on a non-reportable accident report; normally a crash involving a towed vehicle is recorded on a police accident report. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

The driver of V1, a 56-year old male, was traveling southbound in the center lane when an unknown light vehicle suddenly entered his lane from the right, almost striking his vehicle. He reported, "I saw the vehicle at the last minute and I turned left to avoid hitting the vehicle and entered lane three, the left turning lane, and struck the rear of vehicle two, which was stopped waiting for the green light. I slammed on my brakes but my vehicle didn't stop in time. The other vehicle kept going straight." The driver was obviously frustrated and disappointed as he explained the events of the crash. He repeated that he had a class to teach and was late and couldn't believe what had just occurred. He said he was tired throughout the day and at the start of this trip. He slept 5 hours the previous night, not his normal 7 hours and he travels on this roadway several times a month. He was not injured.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V1 was: "this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the left side of travel lane." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as incorrect evasive action. Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle were fatigue and the use of prescription medication for diabetes.

The driver of V2, a 27-year old male doctor, had just left work at the hospital on his way home. He reported that he had been traveling in the center lane before entering lane three, the left turn lane. He was stopped waiting at the red traffic signal when the van, V1, hit the back of his vehicle. He did not see V1 prior to impact.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V2 was: "other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane, over right lane line." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associated factors coded to the driver.