This crash occurred in a 4-way signalized intersection. The east/west roadway was divided by a green median. On the east side of the intersection there were 3 lanes going west (one being a right turn only lane) and three lanes going east. On the west side of the intersection there were 2 lanes going west and 3 lanes going east (one lane being a right turn only lane). The north/south roadway was an undivided roadway. The south side of the intersection there were 2 lanes going north and 2 lanes going south. The north side of the intersection had one lane going north and two lanes going south. All the roadways involved were straight, level, and bituminous roadways with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). It was early afternoon on a weekday and the roads were dry and skies were clear. Traffic flow was congested due to lunch hour traffic with stop and go traffic activity.

V1, a 1999 Ford Econo-line van, was traveling west in lane two intending on continuing straight through the intersection. V2, a 2001 Honda CR-V sport utility vehicle, was traveling south in lane one intending on continuing south. V3, a 2001 Saturn L300 4-door was traveling north in lane one intending on continuing north. Both V2 and V3 were stopped for a red light, when the light turned green they both proceeded through the intersection. V1 had a right light, but continued straight through the intersection and struck the right side of V2 which sent V2 airborne and upon landing struck the left rear side of V3. V1 came to final rest approximately 5 meters from point of impact. V2 came to final rest approximately 10 meters from the first point of impact and at the same point of impact with V3. V3 came to final rest approximately at point of impact with V2. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the 1999 Ford Econo-line van was driven by a 78-year-old male who reported non-incapacitating injuries but was not transported to a medical facility. Only a surrogate interview was provided by the driver's son in which he only gave minimal information because his father was seeking a lawyer. According to the other drivers and witnesses, the driver of V1 ran the red light and struck V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as, "this vehicle traveling- crossing over (passing through) intersection”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle. The associated factor coded to this driver is illegal maneuver.

V2, the 2001 Honda CR-V was driven by a 26-year-old male who reported non-incapacitating injuries but was not transported to a medical facility. The other occupants a 44-year-old female who reported non-incapacitating injuries and an 11-year-old female who reported possible injuries and were both transported to a medical facility. The driver stated that he was stopped at a red light and when the light turned green proceeded through the intersection. He saw V1 ran the red light and knew that he was going to be struck. He couldn't remember what he exactly did to try and avoid the impact if he braked or accelerated but he knew he tried to avoid the collision. After the initial strike, he does not exactly remember what happened in the second collision.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as "This vehicle traveling-crossing over (passing through) intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded “inadequate surveillance”. The only associated factors that were coded to this driver were conversing with passenger and rush hour congestion.

V3, the 2001 Saturn L300, was driven by 64-year-old female who reported non-incapacitating injuries but was not transported to a medical facility. The driver stated that she was stopped at the light and when the light turned green continued through the intersection. As she was continuing through, she saw V2 out of the corner of her eye and steered to the right to attempt to avoid a collision but was unsuccessful and was struck by V2.

No Critical Pre-crash Event was coded to this driver since she was not part of the first harmful event. The Critical Reason was not coded to this driver. The only associated factor that was coded to this driver was rush hour congestion.