The crash occurred at an intersection of an east/west undivided three-lane roadway and a two-lane undivided side street. On the east/west roadway, the middle lane was a turning lane for both directions. The intersecting road located south of the intersection was a north/south undivided two-lane roadway with a stop sign for the northbound lane. The north side of the intersection was a one-way northbound-only road. The east/west road was a level, bituminous roadway with a left curve for westbound traffic and a posted speed of 48 kmph (30 mph). It was early afternoon on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was heavy in both east and west directions and sun glare was not a factor. The crash occurred during the early afternoon hours on a weekday.

V1, a 2006 Ford Explorer utility vehicle, was driven by a 43 year-old female. The driver stated that due to a circulation problem, her ankles had swelled to an uncomfortable size; she was driving herself to the hospital for her condition, and had been on the road for less than half an hour when the crash occurred. She initially claimed that the last thing she remembered, prior to the crash, was that she had been traveling east in lane one behind other eastbound traffic and negotiating the left curve. The next thing she remembered was someone banging on her window yelling for her stop the car and then a police officer bending over her removing her seat belt. Due to the crash, the driver was knocked unconscious (forward facial contact) while her vehicle (V1) continued forward, veering left as it traveled across the middle turn lane and into oncoming traffic in the westbound lane one where it came to a stop 48 meters from the crash site facing east. The driver was transported due to injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 2007 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, was driven by a 31 year-old male. The driver stated that he had visited his wife at the hospital 10 minutes prior to the crash and was on his way to pick-up his daughter at school. He stated that he had turned left from the northbound road and had been stopped in the middle of the intersection facing west, attempting to merge into the westbound lane one, once oncoming traffic cleared. He saw V1 from a block away traveling east erratically, zigzagging from lane one to the middle turn lane, back to the eastbound lane one and then back into the middle turn lane approaching at a rate of about 32 kmph (20 mph). When V1 had almost reached his vehicle, V1 was close to entering the westbound lane while still traveling east. The driver of V2 honked his horn to warn her. The driver of V1 suddenly veered right, crashing into his vehicle. The force of the crash caused his vehicle to spin counterclockwise 315 degrees where it came to rest facing northeast. The driver of V2 stated that prior to the crash he saw the driver of V1 talking on a cell phone and was bent down, as if she was searching for something. The driver of V2 was transported due to neck injuries.

The officer stated that vehicles were not allowed to stop in the middle of the intersection (not considered part of the middle turn lane). The police officer told the researcher that, prior to the crash, the driver of V1 stated she had been rubbing her eyes and grabbing a falling object.

The Pre-Crash Event for V1 was "Other vehicle encroachment - from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors for the driver of V1 include driving with blurred vision and swollen ankles, inattention and non-driving activities (e.g. rubbing eyes while retrieving a tissue). Evidence indicates that the driver's injuries could only have occurred while bent forward and leaning down at the time of the crash to obtain the facial injuries. If she had been upright, the seat belt would have prevented forward facial impact. There was no seat belt failure. The force of the impact was not enough to deploy the air bags, yet a restrained driver sustained frontal facial injuries (nose and forehead) severe enough to cause temporary unconsciousness. The seatbelts did not fail, and the driver complained of shoulder bruising consistent with seatbelt injury. The combined evidence indicates that the driver of V1 leaning/bent over and/or down when the crash occurred. While the driver of V2 saw V1 approach from a block away, the driver of V1 never saw V2, a vehicle directly in her line of sight.

The Pre-Crash Event for V2 was "This vehicle traveling - turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Pre-Crash Event was an "other" decision error - did not complete left turn, remained in intersection waiting for westbound traffic to clear. Associated factors for the driver include thinking about the fact that his wife had just been admitted to the hospital.