This three vehicle crash occurred on a two-way, four lane roadway. The roadway was straight and level and constructed of asphalt. There are two westbound and two eastbound lanes separated by a painted centerline stripe. The speed limit on the roadway was posted 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred during the daylight hours with no atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Suzuki Forenza 4 door with three occupants, was traveling westbound in the number two lane between 48-56 kmph (30-35 mph). Vehicle two (V2), a 1981 Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme 4 door with one occupant, was stopped in the number two lane waiting to turn left in a driveway to access a trailer park. Vehicle three (V3), a 2006 Mazda 3 4 door with two occupants, was traveling eastbound in the number two lane between 48-56 kmph (30-35 mph). The front of V1 struck the rear of V2. V1 came to rest in the number two lane facing west. The impact forced V2 into the number two eastbound lane into the left side of V3. V2 traveled back into the number two westbound lane and moved his vehicle into a parking lot located to the south of the roadway where the crash occurred. V3 came to a controlled stop in a driveway entrance to a toy store located east of the crash location. V1 was towed due to damage. V2 and V3 were driven from the scene. There were no injuries reported at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty six (36) year old male, was traveling from his home taking his son to a baseball game. He said that he was looking at his son sitting in the right front passenger seat and talking to him. He also said that the radio was also on at the time of the crash. . He said that as he looked up, he saw V2 stopped in front of him. He said that he did not see any brake lights on V2. He said that he applied the brakes but it was too late. He said that after he hit the rear of V2, it went into oncoming traffic and struck V3 that was traveling in the opposite direction. He said that he bad been driving for about 10 minutes before the crash occurred.

The driver of V2, a fifty five (55) year old male, was traveling from a convenience store located about 2 blocks east of the crash location. He said that he was stopped for about 3 seconds waiting to turn left into the driveway that leads up to his residence. He said that he looked in his rear view mirror just prior to the crash and saw the driver of V1 approaching and talking on a cell phone. He said that he did have his turn signal on at the time of the crash. The driver is unemployed and had a brace on his right knee. The driver is otherwise healthy and got approximately 10 hours of sleep and was awake 8 ½ hours before the crash. He takes no medication.

The driver of V3, a twenty six (26) year old female, was traveling from her friend's house, the right front passenger, going to a retail store. She said the she left her house and drove to pick up her friend. She said that she left her house about 30 minutes before the crash. She was talking to her friend just before the crash. She was looking straight ahead and saw V2 come into her lane and she steered to the right just as V2 came into her lane. She said that she got approximately 12 hours of sleep the night before and had been awake for about 6 ½ hours before the crash occurred.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: internal distraction. Looking at and talking to his 12-year old son sitting in the right front passenger seat distracted the driver.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.