Case #2007-080

The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a two-way, twelve-lane, interstate roadway. There were six southbound lanes, with a posted speed of 105 kmph (65 mph). This was a level, asphalt roadway, which curved slightly to the left. Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1.

V1, a 2006 Subaru Baja with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane six (HOV lane). A non-contact vehicle was traveling southbound in lane five, slightly ahead of V1. The non-contact vehicle began to change lanes to the left, into the path of V1. The driver of the Subaru lost control while successfully avoiding the phantom vehicle. The front of V1 made contact with the concrete median traffic barrier, as the vehicle rotated counterclockwise. After impact, the Subaru continued to rotate along the wall. The back right corner of V1 again made contact with the barrier. Finally, the back of V1 end swiped the wall, before coming to final rest facing south, on the emergency shoulder of the interstate.

The Subaru Baja was driven by a 31-year old male, who refused treatment on-scene. He stated that he was driving south, in the HOV lane, when another driver slowly passed him on his right side. Once the other driver's back bumper was even with V1's front bumper, the other driver reduced his speed. Both drivers continued traveling at constant and relatively equal speeds for a couple of minutes, staggered next to each other in their respective travel lanes. He believed that he must have been in the other driver's blind spot when that motorist decided to change lanes. The driver had to steer to the left to avoid getting hit. The driver indicated that he then steered sharply to the right, to avoid the concrete barrier. The motorist believed that he must have overcorrected, because his vehicle fishtailed wildly out of control after that, striking the wall several times.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related performance error, overcompensation. Emotional-related associated factors for this driver included concerns pertaining to employment, family, and personal relationships. At the time of the crash, the motorist was on a probationary period with the fire department, where he was learning a new position. However, the driver was unsure whether he was thinking of any such concerns immediately before the crash. A physical-related factor for the driver was the presence of a pre-existing health condition. The driver suffered from persistent headaches, but was not taking any medications for the condition. Additionally, the driver was involved in strenuous non-work activity just prior to the crash. The motorist spent four hours doing heavy lifting for his father that morning. However, the driver did not feel fatigued at the start of his trip.