The crash occurred on a fully controlled highway, divided by a median with a guardrail, with two lanes in each direction. The bituminous roadway was straight and level, and the posted speed limit was 113 kmph (70 mph). Conditions at the time of the weekend afternoon crash were daylight, clear and dry.

V1, a 2004 Honda Civic 2 door coupe driven by an 18 year-old male, was southbound on the road in lane two. The driver was on his way from home to work. The driver stated that he was traveling less than 70 mph approximately 4-5 car lengths behind the vehicle in front of him. The driver looked down to adjust the radio and when he looked back up he saw brake lights on the vehicle in front of him. Traffic was braking for a police car with its lights on pulling over a vehicle on the right shoulder up ahead. The driver braked, successfully avoiding contact with the vehicle ahead, swerved left and drove onto the paved left shoulder and rumble strip. The driver stated that then he steered right and entered lane one. The right front of V1 struck the left front of V2. Both vehicles rotated clockwise and crossed the shoulder onto the grass. The right back of V1 struck the left front of V2 again. Both vehicles continued off the road onto the grass. V1 returned to the right shoulder and came to rest facing south. V1 was drivable following the crash. The fully restrained driver denied injuries at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 2002 Oldsmobile Bravada sport utility vehicle driven by a 24-year old male, was southbound on the highway in lane one. The driver of V2 was driving to another state and the vehicle was fully loaded with 1,000 pounds of cargo. V2 was pulling a small trailer with a motorcycle (750 pounds) on it. The driver stated that he noticed V1 approaching in the left lane, behind another vehicle. The vehicle ahead braked, V1 braked suddenly, swerved left, swerved back to the right and into lane one and struck V2. The driver of V2 braked (full ABS application). After being struck by V1, V2 departed the roadway on the right, rotating clockwise. V2 traveled 12 meters down an 8 percent slope, and rolled 2 quarter turns. An embankment interrupted the roll of V2, causing V2 to contact a small tree with the right side. V2 came to rest on its roof against the embankment, facing northwest. V2 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver was transported to a local trauma center due to injuries.

The Critical Pre-crash Event coded to the driver of V1 was 'this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the right side of travel lane.' The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as 'incorrect evasive action' due to the driver steering into lane one and striking V2 in an attempt to avoid the vehicle in front of him. An associated factor was an internal distraction due to the driver looking down to adjust his radio prior to the crash. Other associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include overcompensation, a traffic flow interruption caused by vehicles slowing and merging into lane two due to a police vehicle on right shoulder, and driver inexperience, as he had only been driving for 20 months.

The Critical Pre-crash Event coded to the driver of V2 was 'other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane (same direction) over left lane line.' The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to the driver of V2 include the weight of the cargo, trailer and motorcycle, the driver's unfamiliarity with the roadway, and the traffic flow interruption caused by the police vehicle on the shoulder of the roadway.