This case involves a near side impact resulting in serious injuries to the occupant in the left 3rd row seat (case occupant). Vehicle One (V1 - case vehicle) is a 1993 Ford Aerostar minivan and Vehicle Two (V2) is a 1995 Ford F150 pick-up. The crash occurred after dark during rainy, wet weather. The collision occurred in a residential area at a four way intersection controlled by corner traffic lights for all directions. Both the east-west roadway and the north-south roadway are two way, two lane roadways without a centerline separating the two way traffic. The roadways also have parallel parking spaces on both sides of the street. The roadway is level and was illuminated by street lights at the time of the crash. V1 was traveling north on the northbound roadway intending go straight through the intersection. V2 was traveling east on the eastbound roadway and was intending to go straight through the intersection. The frontal plane of V2 impacted the left side plane of V1. V1 was pushed right laterally with less than 30 degrees of rotation before coming to final rest at the intersection facing northwest. Both V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage. V1 was driven by a 40 year old male who was not using the available 3-point manual belt. The two other occupants of V1 included a 19 year old female passenger in the right front seat who was not using the 3-point manual belt and a 5 month old male restrained in the left 3rd row position by the 5-point harness of a rear facing infant seat. The rear facing infant seat was attached to the vehicle using the vehicle lap and shoulder belt. The 5 month old male (case occupant) sustained serious injuries and was transported to an adult trauma center by ALS ground unit and subsequently transferred to a pediatric trauma center. Both the driver and right front passenger sustained minor injuries and were transported by ALS ground unit to the nearest hospital. V2 was occupied by the driver only, a 37 year old male whose restraint usage and injury status is unknown. He was not transported to a hospital.