This case involves a moderate frontal impact event resulting in serious injuries to the right rear passenger (case occupant). The crash occurred during daylight hours in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred on a two-lane bituminous roadway basically straight in origin and without any intersection or traffic control device involvement. The roadway is level and divided by a double yellow line. The east side of the shoulder immediately ends with a concrete curb at the T-type intersecting cross road at the crash site. Vehicle 1 (V1 - case vehicle) a 1996 four-door Toyota 4Runner was being driven westbound and vehicle two (V2) a 2001 four-door Ford Focus was being driven eastbound. The crash occurred when the right front bumper corner of V2 impacted a curb on the right shoulder (event 1) and crossed over the centerline into the path of travel of V1. The front plane of V2 impacted the front plane of V1(event 2) in a frontal offset configuration for V1. V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to final rest facing southwest on the grass partially on the shoulder of the road and V2 came to rest in the middle of the roadway facing west. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage. V1 was driven by a 46 year old female restrained by the available 3-point manual belt. The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed as a result of the impact. The case occupant, a 4 year old male, was seated in the 2nd row, right position and restrained by the available 3-point manual belt used with a high back booster seat. The booster seat was used correctly with the shoulder belt positioned in the adjustable belt router positioned appropriately for his height. V2 was occupied by the driver only, a 43 year old female restrained by the 3-point manual belt. The available steering wheel mounted air bag for V2 deployed as a result of the impact. The case occupant was transported with serious injuries by helicopter to a nearby pediatric trauma center. The driver of V1 was transported by ground to a nearby hospital ER with minor injuries. The driver of V2 was transported to an unknown hospital with serious injuries.