This case involves a moderate left side impact resulting in serious injuries to right front passenger (case occupant #1), severe injuries to the left rear passenger (case occupant #2) and moderate injuries to the center rear passenger (case occupant #3). The crash occurred during night hours in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred at an intersection of two two-way two-lane bituminous roadways, each separated by a double yellow line. The intersection was controlled by traffic signals and illuminated by street lights at the time of the crash. Vehicle one (V1 - case vehicle), a 2003 four-door Toyota Matrix, was being driven northbound and vehicle two (V2), a 2007 four-door Toyota Camry, was being driven eastbound. The speed limit on all the four legs of the intersection is 40 km/h (25 mph). The crash occurred when V1 and V2 both entered the intersection and the frontal plane of V2 impacted the left side plane of V1. V1 rotated counter clockwise and came to final rest on the northwest corner of the roadway facing southeast. V2 came to final rest facing east in the eastbound lane. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage. V1 was driven by an unbelted 27 year old female. Both frontal air bags deployed as a result of the crash. Four other occupants were present in V1 including an unbelted 16 year old male (case occupant #1) in the right front seat, a 53 year old female (case occupant #2) in the left rear seat, a 4 year old male (case occupant #3) in the center rear seat and a 47 year old female in the right rear seat. The left and center rear passengers were using the available lap and shoulder belts. The center rear passenger had placed the shoulder belt behind his back. The right rear occupant was unbelted and was ejected during the crash event. The occupants were all transported by ground unit to a trauma center, the right front passenger with serious injuries, the left rear passenger with severe injuries, the center rear passenger with moderate injuries and the right rear passenger with fatal injuries.