This case involved a 17 year old restrained male driver of a 2009 Toyota Camry four-door sedan (V1). There was a 15 year old restrained male in the front right passenger seat. There were two other vehicles involved in the crash, a 2005 Chevrolet Tahoe sport utility vehicle (V2) in use as a police emergency vehicle and a 2007 Pontiac G6 two-door coupe (V3). The driver of V1 was restrained by the 3-point manual safety belt and had deployed left side impact and head curtain airbags. The frontal airbags did not deploy in the crash. The crash occurred during daylight hours in an interchange area and there were no adverse weather conditions. V1 was southbound on a -4% grade ramp exiting an interstate highway onto a multi-lane east/west roadway. V2 was westbound and V3 was eastbound on the connecting straight and level roadway with a posted speed limit of 72 kph (45 mph). The interchange was controlled by traffic signals. V1 was exiting the ramp and crossing the westbound lanes preparing to turn left onto the eastbound lanes traveling at approximately 40 kph (25 mph). V2 was westbound in the left of three lanes responding to an emergency call at the time of the crash. V2 was reportedly traveling at about 129 kph (80 mph) when it swerved onto the left shoulder of the roadway in order to pass a stopped vehicle in the left lane. As V2 came back onto the roadway and entered the intersection, it struck V1 in the left rear door with its frontal plane. V3 was stopped in the left turn lane of the eastbound traffic lanes and was struck in the left side by the right rear quarter panel of V1 as V1 rotated counterclockwise from the first impact with V2. V3 was knocked into the adjacent left turn lane for final rest. V1 continued spinning counterclockwise and came to rest on the center concrete median. V2 continued westbound after impact with V1 and traveled approximately 56 meters before coming to rest also on the center median. All three vehicles were towed from the scene due to disabling damage. The driver of V1 was transported by ground ambulance to a level one trauma center and hospitalized due to serious injuries sustained in the crash. The right front passenger of V1 was also transported to a level one trauma center where he was treated and released from the emergency department.