This single vehicle crash involved a 44 year old restrained female driver of a 2006 BMW X5 sport utility vehicle (V1). She was restrained by the available three point manual safety belt and had a deployed frontal airbag, as well as a deployed left side tubular head impact airbag. It is unknown if the left door mounted airbag deployed due to the door being removed and missing at the time of inspection. There were three other occupants in V1, an 11 year old restrained female in the front right passenger seat, a 12 year old restrained female in the 2nd row left seat position and a 10 year old restrained male passenger in the 2nd row right position. The front right passenger also had a deployed frontal airbag and the passenger in the 2nd row left seat had the deployed left tubular head airbag as well as a smaller deployed roof side rail mounted head airbag . The crash occurred during daylight hours on a three lane roadway that narrowed down to two lanes of two way traffic. The dry asphalt roadway was straight with a 7% downhill grade. The posted speed limit was 89 kph (55 mph). The roadway was in the process of being resurfaced and the shoulders were low. V1 was traveling south when it dropped off the right shoulder of the roadway. The driver of V1 overcorrected and crossed the roadway and departed the left shoulder. V1 traveled along the east shoulder, through some underbrush and down an embankment at about a 40 degree angle. V1 impacted a 42cm tree with its left side and left front windshield header. V1 then continued forward and struck a 38cm tree with its front left corner before coming to rest. V1 was towed from the scene due to disabling damage. The driver of V1 was transported by air to a level one trauma center and hospitalized due to the severity of her injuries. The front right and 2nd row right seat passengers were transported by ground ambulance to a level one trauma center for treatment and released. The 2nd row left seat passenger was also transported by ground to the trauma center and hospitalized.