This case involves a restrained 68 year old female driver in a 2010 Honda CR-V sports utility vehicle (V1). V1 was equipped with dual frontal airbags, dual side airbags, and dual side curtains. The driver's frontal steering wheel mounted airbag, side curtains, and driver's outboard seat mounted airbag all deployed during the crash. V2, a 2000 Chevrolet Monte Carlo was also involved in the crash. The crash occurred during the daytime hours on a two-way, two-lane roadway with eastbound travel lanes. The weather was misty and the asphalt roadway was wet. The posted speed limit was 89 kph (55 mph). The travel lanes had an uphill grade. V1 was traveling in the right lane of the eastbound travel lanes while negotiating a left curve. V2 was traveling in the left lane of the east travel lanes also negotiating a left curve. V1 drifted off onto the right roadside. The driver of V1 braked and steered left in an attempt to maneuver her vehicle back into its travel lane. The driver overcorrected and re-entered the roadway, crossed the center lane line and contacted the right side of V2 with its left front (event 1). This impact caused both vehicles to rotate and the left side of V1 contacted the right side of V2 a second time (event 2). The driver of V1 steered right sending her vehicle back across the right lane and then onto the right roadside. V1 departed the roadway to the right where it contacted two shrubbery bushes with its front (events 3 & 4). V1 then continued and contacted two small trees with its front (events 5 & 6). After impact with the small trees V1 contacted a 21 cm diameter tree with its left front (event 7). After impact with the 21cm diameter tree, V1 continued across a large log on the ground. This caused the undercarriage of V1 to contact the log (event 8). After contact with the log, V1 continued and contacted a 30 cm diameter tree and a 15 cm diameter tree with its front (events 9 & 10), respectively. These impacts caused V1 to rotate counterclockwise and contact two additional trees with its rear (events 11 & 12). V1 continued to rotate counterclockwise and tripped on the ground with its right side leading (event 13). Before V1 made contact with the ground its top hood area contacted a tree (event 14). V1 also contacted three smaller trees with its right side (events 15, 16, & 17). V1 came to rest on its top after rolling two quarter turns and landing with its roof on a log (event 18) facing northeast. V1 was towed from the scene due to disabling damage. V2 came to a controlled stop in the median. V2 was not towed or disabled. The driver of V1 was transported to a local hospital by ground ambulance. She was later transferred to a level one trauma center for treatment of serious injuries sustained in the crash.