The case focuses on an unrestrained 15 year old right rear male passenger in a 2013 Chevrolet Cruze (V1). This occupant was asleep with his head resting on the rear right door. There was also a restrained 39 year old female driver and a restrained 31 year old right front male passenger in V1. V1 was equipped with dual frontal airbags, dual knee bolster airbags, dual side curtains, and dual first and second row side airbags. The right side curtain and both right side (first and second row) outboard seat-mounted airbags deployed during the crash. V2, a 2004 Mercury Grand Marquis, and V3, a 2004 BMW Z4 were also involved in the crash. The crash occurred at the intersection of an asphalt, two-way, three-lane, dry roadway whose lanes ran north to south and a four-lane (two straight lanes, a right and left turn lane), one-way, dry, asphalt roadway whose lane ran east. The intersection was controlled by a four-way traffic light. There were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit for the north and southbound lanes was 56 kph (35 mph). The posted speed limit for the westbound lane was 80 kph (50 mph) and the crash occurred during the daylight hours. V1 was waiting at a stoplight on the north leg of the intersection in the straight lane of the southbound lanes. V2 was traveling east and approaching the intersection while in the right straight lane of the eastbound lanes. V1 accelerated through the intersection, crossed the westbound lanes of the traffic way and proceeded to cross the eastbound lanes. As V1 crossed the eastbound lanes V2 entered the intersection. The front of V2 contacted the right side of V1. This impact caused both vehicles to move southeast in the intersection while rotating clockwise. V3 was stopped at the traffic light in lane straight lane of the northbound lanes headed north. V1 and V2 entered the travel lane of V3. The right side of V1 contacted the left front of V3. This impact caused V3 to be pushed rearward and southeast. V3 came to rest on the gore of the northbound lanes that separated a right turn lane from the straight lanes and left turn lane. V3 faced north at final rest. V1 came to rest across the northbound left turn lane and straight lane while facing northeast. V2 came to rest in the northbound lanes also facing northeast. V3 came to rest on the gore that separated the right turn and straight lanes of the northbound lanes, facing southwest. All vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The right rear passenger in V1 sustained severe injury during the crash. He was transported to local hospital by ground; however he was later taken to a level one trauma center where he received additional treatment for injuries that he sustained during the crash. The driver and front right passenger of V1 were transported by ground ambulance to a local hospital with unknown injuries.