This case involves a 34 year old unrestrained female driver in a 2010 Chevrolet Impala (V1). V1 was equipped with dual frontal airbags, dual side airbags, and dual side curtains. The frontal steering wheel mounted airbag in V1 was the only airbag to deploy during the crash. V2, a 2012 Toyota Camry and V3, a 2014 Toyota Highlander, were also involved in the crash. The crash occurred at the uncontrolled intersection of a two-way, three lane roadway and a two-lane, two-way private driveway. The three lane roadway was level dry asphalt. The two lane private drive was composed of dry gravel and was level. The posted speed limit for the three lane roadway was 89 kph (55 mph). There was no posted speed for the private driveway. The weather was clear and the crash occurred during the daylight hours. V1 was trailing V2 and V3 heading northbound in the inside lane of the three-way roadway. V3 was the lead vehicle and it began to slow before it attempted to make a left turn into the private driveway. The driver of V2 noticed V3 slowing so she applied her brakes and decelerated. The driver of V1 noticed at the last second that the vehicles in front of her were slowing so she unsuccessfully attempted to steer right and brake to avoid contact with V2. The front of V1 contacted the rear of V2. This impact pushed V2 into the rear of V3. After impact, V1 veered right while skidding. V1 departed the roadside to the right where it contacted a trash bin, and three trees, respectively, with its front. Two of the three trees that were impacted were partially uprooted causing these trees to lean between 20 and 30 degree angles. V1 came to rest mounted on top of the trees while facing north at final rest. V2 traveled a few feet after impact with V3 and came to rest facing northwest in its original lane. V3 came to a controlled stop on the left roadside, facing west. V1 and V2 were towed due to disabling damage. V3 was not towed or disabled. The unrestrained driver of V1 was transported to a level one trauma center by air. There she was treated for serious injuries that she sustained in the crash.