This case focuses on a restrained 74 year old male driver in a 2010 Dodge Grand Caravan conversion minivan (Braun Entervan). This van was custom fitted with a Q'Straint locking system that allowed the driver to operate the vehicle from his wheelchair. There were also post manufactured hand controls and a steering knob mounted in the vehicle that allowed the driver to accelerate and brake with his hands. The driver was restrained using a manual lap and shoulder belt that connected to a post manufactured buckle extender that was mounted on the center floor pan. There were dual frontal airbags and dual side curtains that extended along the roof rails in the first, second, and third rows. The steering wheel mounted airbag, right front passenger airbag, and side curtains all deployed during the crash. The crash occurred on a one-way, two-lane interstate exit ramp that curved to the right. The posted speed limit for the travel lanes was 64 kph (40 mph). V1 was traveling north in the northbound lane when it drifted onto the right roadside. The driver of V1 applied his brakes in an attempt to slow the vehicle. V1 began to slide while on the roadside and contacted a tree (16cm diameter) with its front (event 1). V1 then continued a short distance and contacted a second tree (32cm diameter) with its front right corner (event 2). After contacting the second tree V1 continued a short distance and contacted another tree (38cm diameter) with its front left corner (event 3). This impact caused V1 to rotate counterclockwise and trip on the ground (event 4). V1 began to roll with its right side leading. V1 rolled one-quarter turn then contacted a tree (31cm diameter) with left back roof (event 5). After impact, V1 continued and short distance rolling two additional quarter turns onto its left side (rolling a total of three quarter turns) and contacted a final tree (28cm diameter) with its undercarriage front (event 6). V1 came to rest on it left side facing northwest. V1 was towed from the crash scene due to disabling damage. The driver of was transported to a level one trauma center by ground. He was treated for serious injuries that he sustained in the crash.