This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 70-year-old male belted driver with deployed side airbags. This occupant was driving an intermediate size sedan when it was involved in a near-side right-angle collision with a large pickup truck. The case vehicle incurred moderate damage; the case occupant sustained serious injuries in the crash. The crash occurred late afternoon on a dry road in clear conditions. A 2015 Toyota Corolla intermediate size sedan (Vehicle 1) was traveling south on a bituminous four-lane divided road, approaching a four-way intersection. The grade was 7% downhill. A 2001 Dodge Ram large pickup (Vehicle 2) was stopped facing west at the intersection on a 4% downhill grade. The intersection was controlled by flashing signals for both vehicles as well as stop signs for V2. V2 began crossing the intersection as V1 proceeded through the intersection. The front of V2 struck the left front door and front fender of V1 (Event 1). Both vehicles rotated counterclockwise after impact, with V2 coming to rest a few meters from impact after rotating 140 degrees. V1 rotated 70 degrees and struck a stop sign with its right plane (Event 2). V1 continued and struck a raised concrete median with its right rear wheel (Event 3). V1 came to rest in a parking lot off the southwest corner of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. V1 was driven by a 70-year-old male driver. He was wearing the available lap and shoulder belt as evidenced by latch plate loading. The retractor pretensioner was actuated; the vehicle was not equipped with buckle or anchor pretensioners. The curtain airbags and first row outboard seatback airbags deployed in the crash. The driver's left outboard seatback airbag was impinged by B-pillar intrusion and did not fully deploy. The available steering wheel hub, left knee bolster, and right instrument panel airbags did not deploy. There were no other airbags installed in this vehicle. This occupant was transported to a hospital before being transferred to a trauma center for treatment of serious injuries. The case vehicle was also occupied by a 62-year-old female right front passenger. She was belted, and the right curtain and right outboard seatback airbags deployed. The retractor pretensioner actuated for this seating position. This occupant was transported to a local hospital for treatment of minor injuries.