This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 2-year-old male 2nd row left occupant restrained in a child seat with no deployed airbags. At the time of the crash the case occupant was 101 cm (3' 4") tall and weighed 15 kg (33 lbs). This occupant was riding in a 2008 Chrysler Town & Country minivan when it ran off road and struck several trees and an embankment with the front and undercarriage. The principal direction of force for the primary impact was ten degrees and partially non-horizontal with no shift. The vehicle sustained severe damage in the crash. This occupant died on hospital day 3 due to the critical injuries he suffered in the crash. This occupant was restrained in a convertible child safety seat, which was used in a forward facing installation. The child seat was equipped with a 5-point harness system and four height slots for the shoulder straps. The 5-point harness system was used and the shoulder straps were in the 2nd slot down from the top. This convertible seat was designed for children up to 101 cm in height. Although the case occupant was 101 cm tall, the maximum specified height for this child seat, the shoulder straps were installed in the middle slots instead of the upper slots. Notably, the plastic structure on the back of the child seat securing the child shoulder straps cracked, allowing excessive forward excursion of the occupant. The 2nd row seats of the case vehicle were equipped with swiveling seats. These seats had integrated seat belts with ELR-only retractors. A locking clip was found on the case occupant's seat, presumably to use the shoulder belt for child seat installation. On-scene police images and vehicle inspection evidence suggest that the child seat was installed to the vehicle via the shoulder belt at the upper mounts and the LATCH anchor system at the lower mounts. There was abrasion to the child seat's LATCH anchor straps, friction burning to the upper anchorage of the vehicle's shoulder belt, and the aforementioned locking ring was found on the seat. The suspected installation method of shoulder belt and LATCH anchors described above is contraindicated in both the child seat and vehicle owner's manuals. Upon impact, the case occupant moved forward, down, and slightly right in relation to the vehicle, as evidenced by loading to the child seat harness system. The case occupant sustained an intraventricular hemorrhage, craniocervical dissociation, cervical spine epidural hematoma, small left pneumothorax, T1 through T7 vertebral body fractures, thoracic subdural hematoma, and upper lumbar subdural hematoma due to certain chest contact with the child seat harness straps in a probable scenario. The child seat harness loaded the chest, creating flexion of the lumbar and thoracic spine, rapid flexion followed by extension of the cervical spine, and rapid acceleration followed by deceleration of the head. The case occupant suffered a right non-displaced mid-shaft clavicle fracture due to certain chest contact with the child seat harness strap, which was routed through the middle slots instead of the appropriate upper slots for this occupant's height. The case occupant sustained bilateral chest contusions due to probable contact with the child seat harness straps. The case occupant also sustained a left impacted fracture of the distal tibia and a left distal fibular shaft fracture due to probable foot contact with the back of the left front seat back in a probable scenario. The patient died on hospital day 3.