This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 57-year-old male unbelted second row middle passenger with no deployed airbags. This occupant was riding in an intermediate size hatchback when it was involved in an offset frontal impact with underride to a large pickup truck. The vehicle sustained moderate damage. This occupant sustained serious injuries in the crash. The case vehicle was driven by a 56-year-old female who was belted and had the benefit of a deployed frontal airbag. She suffered minor injuries in the crash. A 2-year-old male occupied the second row left seat. He was sitting in a child seat with no deployed airbags for his position. He also suffered minor injuries in the crash. The crash occurred at dusk on a wet road in the rain. A 2008 Toyota Prius intermediate size hatchback (Vehicle 1) was traveling north on a five-lane, two-way road. V1 was approaching a four-way signal-controlled intersection preparing to turn left. The grade of the road was negligible. A 2005 Dodge Ram large pickup (Vehicle 2) was traveling south approaching the same intersection proceeding straight. V1 began turning left as V2 entered the intersection. The front of V1 was struck by the front of V2 in an offset frontal configuration (Event 1). The height mismatch between the two vehicles allowed V2 to override V1's front plane such that the front of V2 eventually made direct contact to the right A-pillar and right roof side rail of V1. The Event 1 impact caused V1 to rotate counterclockwise approximately 140 degrees. The right rear quarter-panel of V1 was then sideswiped by the left plane of V2 (Event 2). V1 came to rest a short distance from the second impact while V2 came to rest south of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case vehicle was occupied by a 57-year-old male unbelted second row middle passenger. This occupant had reportedly just removed his belt and slid from the second row right seat to the second row middle seat to attend to the child in the second row left seat. No belt pretensioners or airbags were installed for this seat position. The available curtain airbags were non-deployed. This occupant was transported to a hospital before being transferred to a trauma center for treatment of serious injuries. V1 was driven by a 56-year-old female who was belted. She was wearing the available lap and shoulder belt as evidenced by 60 cm of shoulder belt payout and latch plate loading. Her retractor pretensioner was actuated, and her steering wheel hub airbag was deployed. She was transported and released from a hospital after sustaining minor injuries. V1 was also occupied by a 2-year-old male second row left occupant in a child seat. The child seat was installed in the vehicle with the lap and shoulder belt. No pretensioners were installed and no airbags were deployed. This occupant was transported and released from a hospital after sustaining minor injuries.