This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 51-year-old male belted driver of a compact sedan with deployed side airbags. This occupant was driving a 2014 Nissan Versa when it was involved in an angled near-side crash with an intermediate size sedan. The case vehicle sustained severe damage. The case occupant sustained severe injuries in the crash. The crash occurred during mid-morning hours on a dry road in clear conditions. A 2014 Nissan Versa compact sedan (Vehicle 1) was stopped facing south at a three-way intersection. A 1993 Buick Regal intermediate size sedan (Vehicle 2) was traveling west approaching the same intersection. The road was bituminous and level in all directions. The driver of V2 suffered a medical emergency and crossed left over the center turn lane and into the oncoming lanes of travel. V2 then crossed back over the center turn lane and through both westbound lanes. At the same time, V1 began turning right into the westbound lane V2 was entering. The front of V2 impacted the left plane of V1 (Event 1). V1 rotated counterclockwise approximately 120 degrees after impact, at which point its left plane was sideswiped by the front of V2 (Event 2). V1 continued while traveling backwards, impacting a curb with its right rear wheel (Event 3). V1 came to rest partially on the north road edge. V2 continued off the north roadside through a parking lot before coming to rest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case vehicle was driven by a 51-year-old male driver. He was belted as evidenced by an indeterminate amount of lap belt payout as well as latch plate loading. The retractor pretensioner was actuated. No buckle pretensioner was installed. The presence of an anchor pretensioner was indeterminate. The left curtain and left outboard seatback airbags deployed in the crash. The available front and right side airbags were non-deployed. He was transported to a hospital before being transferred to a trauma center for treatment of severe injuries.