This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 43-year-old male unbelted driver of a 2007 Nissan Sentra intermediate sedan. This case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of a frontal collision with a 2008 Pontiac G6 full size sedan (Vehicle 2). V1 was also equipped with seat back-mounted side airbags for the front outboard seating positions and curtain airbags for all outboard seating positions (all non-deployed). The investigation also focused on the injury mechanisms of the 66-year-old female unbelted driver of the 2008 Pontiac G6 full size sedan (V2). This second case vehicle (V2) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions (driver side only deployed), seat back-mounted side airbags for the front outboard seating positions (non-deployed), and curtain airbags for all outboard seating positions (non-deployed). V1 was eastbound on a rural two-lane road approaching a four-way intersection. V2 was westbound on the same road and slowing to turn left (south) at the intersection. The road was level. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by stop signs for north & southbound vehicles. It was daylight with rainy weather conditions and wet roads. V2 began to turn left (south) and entered the opposing travel lane, across the path of the eastbound V1. As both vehicles entered the intersection, the frontal area of V1 was impacted by the front right area of V2 (Event 1). The impact resulted in severe damage to V1 and moderate damage to V2. V1 was redirected towards the southeast sector of the intersection where it came to rest straddling the south road edge line facing southeast. V2 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest straddling the centerline also facing southeast. The 43-year-old male unbelted driver of the 2007 Nissan Sentra was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. The lack of seat belt use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the available driver three-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, relative to the extent of contacts to frontal components. It should also be noted that the driver's belt webbing was found restricted in the stowed position by retractor pretensioner deployment. The driver moved in a forward and slightly lateral left trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the knee bolster and deployed frontal airbag. Scuff marks, indentations, and panel cracks were identified on the left knee bolster with deformation noted to the aft support structure. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. The driver loaded through the deployed frontal airbag and deformed the upper & lower portions of the steering wheel rim. Complete compression of the column shear capsules was also identified. The intruded brake pedal was bent to the right, indicative of possible lower extremity interaction. A spider web fracture pattern was identified on the left upper windshield and attributed to possible upper extremity interaction. The 66-year-old female unbelted driver of the 2008 Pontiac G6 (V2) was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a midtrack position. The lack of seat belt use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the available driver three-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, relative to the extent of contacts to frontal components. It should also be noted that the driver's belt webbing was found restricted in the stowed position by retractor pretensioner deployment with heavy tension on the belt. The driver moved in a forward and lateral right trajectory in response to the 1 o'clock impact force and loaded the knee bolster and deployed frontal airbag. Scuff marks, indentations, and panel cracks were identified on the left knee bolster with deformation noted to the aft support structure. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. The driver loaded through the deployed frontal airbag and deformed the upper and lower portions of the steering wheel rim. Complete compression of the column shear capsules was also identified. A spider web fracture pattern was identified on the left upper windshield and attributed to possible upper extremity interaction. The 43-year-old male unbelted driver of V1, a 28-year-old female belted front right passenger of V1, and the 66-year-old female unbelted driver of V2 were transported to a local hospital for treatment. Both drivers were subsequently transferred to a nearby trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. The front right passenger of V1 was treated and released. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.