This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unbelted 28 year old male driver of a 2003 Volkswagen GTI 2-door hatchback. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of a frontal collision with a cluster of closely spaced trees (overlapping events 2-4). Vehicle 1 was eastbound on a four-lane (asphalt) state highway, and proceeding straight along the inboard travel lane. The east/westbound travel lanes were divided by a grassy median, and bordered by large wooded areas. The median was bordered by W-beam guardrails, with tactile warning devices (i.e. "rumble strips") located on the outboard shoulders. It was dark; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The driver allowed Vehicle 1 to depart the left (north) shoulder, as the left front area impacted the guardrail (event 1). The initial impact resulted in minor damage along the vehicle's side surface. Subsequent driver steering input re-directed the vehicle across the eastbound lanes, and towards the right (south) shoulder. Vehicle 1 departed the south pavement edge, and entered the wooded area. The frontal area struck a cluster of closely spaced trees simultaneously, which resulted in moderate overlapping damage (events 2-4). The tree impact(s) resulted in a clockwise rotation, as the vehicle's left side wheels began digging into the soft soil. This produced a roll moment, as the center of gravity was tipped outboard of its wheels. This mechanism initiated a one-quarter turn left side rollover (i.e. "bounce-over"). The rollover event (event 5) resulted in minor left side damage. Vehicle 1 came to rest (on its left side) in close proximity to the struck trees, off the south pavement edge, facing south. The unbelted 28 year old male driver of the 2003 Volkswagen GTI was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. The lack of restraint use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, relative to the extent of contact across the driver space. In addition, the belt's retractor pretensioner was found to be non-deployed. The initial impact with the guardrail was minor in nature, and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the driver. At impact with the tree cluster, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the knee bolster and deployed driver frontal air bag. Indentations and scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation noted on the aft reinforcement plate. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. The upper/lower portions of the steering wheel rim were deformed, with full compression of the column shear capsules identified. A localized scuff mark was documented on the lower aspect of the steering column. The column was also displaced upward and to the right from driver engagement. At this point, the driver continued the kinematic response into the left mid-windshield, as evidenced by the hair strands embedded into this component. The driver kinematic was then re-directed to the left in response to the roll moment. Contact evidence attributed to this event consisted of hair strands identified on the left front roof side rail, with the adjacent component fabric found abraded. Following the crash, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.