This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 54-year-old male unbelted driver of a 2004 Dodge Dakota Quad Cab large pickup truck. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of a frontal collision with a large diameter tree (Event 1). V1 was southbound on a rural asphalt two-lane road, negotiating a left curve on approach to a hillcrest. It was daylight with no adverse weather conditions and the roads were dry. As V1 reached the (hillcrest and) apex of the curve, the driver departed the right (west) pavement edge. The driver steered left in an attempt to reenter the road. This maneuver redirected the vehicle back across the road and into the northbound travel lane. Upon recognition of the impending harmful event, the driver of V1 braked and counter-steered right in avoidance. The vehicle subsequently departed the west pavement edge a second time and continued in a southwesterly direction across an open field. The frontal area impacted a large diameter tree, resulting in moderate damage. V1 rotated (slightly) clockwise and came to rest against the struck tree facing southwest. The 54-year-old male unbelted driver of the 2004 Dodge Dakota was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. The lack of seat belt use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the available three-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. The seat belt was found restricted in the stowed position by retractor pretensioner deployment with heavy tension on the webbing. The driver moved in a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the knee bolster and deployed driver frontal airbag. Multiple scuff marks were identified on the knee bolster. A scuff mark attributed to the right knee was located just under the steering column. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. The upper portion of the steering wheel rim was deformed, with partial compression of the column shear capsules noted. The accelerator pedal was bent right and attributed to possible right lower extremity engagement. The 54-year-old male unbelted driver and 48-year-old male unbelted front right passenger of V1 were transported to a local trauma center and admitted for further treatment of moderate injuries. V1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.