This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted 67 year old female front right passenger of a 2008 Kia Spectra EX 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of a frontal collision with a 2006 Honda Civic EX 2-door coupe (Vehicle 2). The case vehicle was also equipped with side (seatback mounted) air bags for the front outboard seating positions, and curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions (non-deployed). Vehicle 1 was southbound on a two-lane rural roadway, and negotiating a left curve on approach to a 3-leg intersection. Vehicle 2 was stopped and faced east on the intersecting roadway, attempting to turn left (north) at the intersection. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 2 entered the intersection, across the path of the southbound Kia. As Vehicle 2 crossed the southbound lane, the front left area was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 1. Impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, both vehicles were re-directed to the southeast sector of the intersection. Vehicle 1 came to rest in the northbound lane, facing northeast. Vehicle 2 came to rest straddling the east pavement edge, facing southeast. The belted 67 year old female front right passenger of the 2008 Kia Spectra was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. It should also be noted that the belt webbing was found restricted in the used/out position by retractor pretensioner deployment. At impact, the front right passenger initiated a forward (and slightly lateral) trajectory in response to the 1 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, glove compartment door, and deployed front right passenger air bag. Pronounced scuff marks were identified on the glove compartment door, and attributed to lower extremity engagement. Interaction with the deployed front right passenger air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. Following the crash, the belted 72 year old male driver, belted 11 year old male rear left child passenger, and belted 7 year old female rear right child passenger of Vehicle 1 received no treatment for (police reported) minor injuries. However, the belted 67 year old female front right passenger of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.