This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unbelted 38 year old female driver of a 2006 Toyota Avalon 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions, a driver knee bolster air bag, side (seatback mounted) air bags for the front outboard seating positions, and curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions (non-deployed). Vehicle 1 was northbound in the outboard lane of a four-lane divided state highway, and proceeding straight. The north/southbound lanes were divided by a grassy median, bordered by W-beam guardrails. It was dark; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The driver allowed the vehicle to depart the right (east) pavement edge onto the paved shoulder. As Vehicle 1 entered the east shoulder, the front right area impacted a W-beam guardrail, which resulted in moderate damage. The direct damage continued longitudinally down the vehicle's right side surface, in a shallow sideswipe type pattern. At this point, Vehicle 1 was re-directed back across the northbound travel lanes onto the left (west) shoulder. As Vehicle 1 entered the west shoulder, the front left area struck a second W-beam guardrail resulting in (overlapping) moderate damage. The direct damage extended longitudinally down the vehicle's left side surface to the rear bumper corner, in a narrow ("end") engagement type pattern. Vehicle 1 came to rest alongside the struck guardrail (on the northbound west shoulder) facing north. The 38 year old female driver of the 2006 Toyota Avalon Limited was presumed to be seated in a slumped posture, possibly leaning to the right (asleep?). The seat was approximated to be at a mid-track position. Although the driver reported to police that she was belted, the lack of restraint use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, relative to the extent of contacts across frontal components. At impact 1, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the gearshift, right mid-instrument panel, and right sunvisor. Contact evidence suggested a kinematic path across the center console and into the (mid-to-upper) front right occupant space. The gearshift was bent slightly to the right. Makeup transfers and hair strands were identified on the right sunvisor, along with smudge marks on the right mid-instrument panel. During the vehicle's post-impact trajectory into the second event, the driver probably rebounded into the right front cushion and floor area. Contact evidence suggested a secondary kinematic path into the right footwell area. At impact 2, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the glove compartment door. A pronounced makeup transfer was documented on this component, which extended vertically downward into the floor area. Blood pooling and vomit found suggested a final rest position in and around the right floor area. Following the crash, the unbelted 38 year old female driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital for treatment. The driver was subsequently transferred to a trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.