This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted 64 year old female driver of a 2005 Chevrolet Equinox LT 4-door 4x2 sport utility. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of a narrow offset frontal collision with a sign support post. Vehicle 1 was westbound in the outboard travel lane of a (level) 7-lane urban roadway, and negotiating a left curve. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 reached the apex of the curve as the driver allowed it to continue in a forward tracking mode. The vehicle traversed an entrance to a large parking area, towards the north curb line. As Vehicle 1 departed the north edge of the road, the front right area impacted a narrow sign support post. The struck post (one of two) supported a large illuminated sign, which provided advertising space for local business. The impact resulted in severe vehicle damage; offset just right of the centerline. Following impact, Vehicle 1 rotated slightly clockwise to final rest (in close proximity to the point of impact) facing northwest. The belted 64 year old female driver of the 2005 Chevrolet Equinox was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a full forward track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. It should be noted that the vehicle's Event Data Recorder (EDR) reported the driver's belt switch circuit status as "buckled", and the seat track at a "forward" position. At impact, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, knee bolster, and deployed frontal air bag. Indentations and scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation noted on the aft reinforcement frame. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the makeup transfers and scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. The upper and lower portions of the steering wheel rim were deformed, with partial compression of the column shear capsules found. The center instrument cluster was displaced inward/fractured, and attributed to possible driver (right) upper extremity contact. Moderate intrusion of the left toepan and floor pedals suggested driver lower extremity interaction. Severe intrusion of frontal components was documented within the (unoccupied) front right space. Following the crash, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. The vehicle was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.