This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 64-year-old male driver of a 2007 Dodge Nitro compact utility vehicle. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The case vehicle was also equipped with curtain airbags for all outboard seating positions. The driver's frontal and left curtain airbags deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a large diameter tree (Event 1). V1 was traveling in a southwesterly direction on a two-lane level rural road, negotiating a left curve. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions, and the road was dry. The driver allowed Vehicle 1 to cross the centerline, and depart the pavement edge onto the left (south) shoulder. The vehicle subsequently entered a wooded area, where the front left area impacted a large diameter tree. The offset damage pattern allowed engagement with the tree to continue rearward down the vehicle's left side surface. The point of maximum engagement was reached at the front axle, which initiated a slight counterclockwise rotation to final rest. The impact resulted in severe damage to the vehicle's front and left side surface. V1 came to rest against the struck tree facing south. The 64-year-old male driver of the 2007 Dodge Nitro was reportedly not awake at the time of the crash, and thus his posture is unknown. The seat track was adjusted to a full rearward position. The lack of seat belt use was evidenced by the extent of contact evidence across frontal components, in conjunction with the absence of loading marks on the available driver three-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. It should also be noted that the belt was found latched, with the shoulder webbing routed (improperly) behind the driver seat back. Deployment of the vehicle's redundant belt pretensioner system resulted in heavy tension of the webbing in the used/out position. Compression of the belt webbing against the seat back produced impressions into the seat fabric. The driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force , loaded the knee bolster and deployed frontal airbag. Indentations and scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation noted on the aft reinforcement frame. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. The upper portion of the steering wheel rim was deformed, with compression of the steering column also identified. The driver continued the kinematic response into the center windshield, right header/sunvisor, and right A-pillar. Concentrated areas of hair strands, skin tissue, and scuff marks were transferred onto these components. Blood trails and pooling suggested an occupant final rest position (slumped) into the right floor pan area. The driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injuries. V1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.