This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 48-year-old male belted driver of a 2005 GMC Sierra extended cab large pickup truck. The case vehicle (V1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal airbag deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a 1998 Honda Passport compact utility vehicle (V2). V1 was eastbound on a two-lane rural (asphalt) road, proceeding straight on approach to a left curve, with an uphill grade >2%. V2 was westbound on the same road and negotiating a right curve. Ambient conditions were daylight with no adverse weather and the road was dry. V2 crossed left over the centerline into the path of the eastbound GMC pickup. As V2 entered the eastbound lane, the front left area impacted the front left area of V1. The impact resulted in severe damage to V1. Both vehicles rotated counterclockwise and began their respective post-impact trajectories to final rest. V1 came to rest on the south shoulder facing northeast. V2 came to rest straddling the centerline, facing southeast. The 48-year-old male belted driver of the 2005 GMC Sierra large pickup was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat track adjusted to a full rearward position. Seat belt use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver three-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. It should be noted that the vehicle's Event Data Recorder (EDR) reported the driver's belt switch circuit status as "buckled". The driver initiated a forward and slightly lateral trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual seat belt, knee bolster, and deployed frontal airbag. Indentations and scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation noted on the aft reinforcement frame. A pronounced scuff mark was also documented on the adjacent steering column and attributed to the driver's right lower extremity. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the linear scuff marks identified across the face of the membrane. Although no steering rim deformation was documented, full compression of the column shear capsules was found. A localized spider web fracture pattern was identified on the left upper windshield and attributed to possible driver (left) hand contact. Following the crash, the driver (and sole occupant) of V1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.