This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unbelted 57 year old male driver of a 2006 Chevrolet Silverado C1500 4x2 pickup truck. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an oblique angled impact with a 1998 Chevrolet G20 van (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was westbound on a two-lane rural roadway, on approach to a 4-leg intersection. Vehicle 2 was northbound on a two-lane roadway, on approach to the same intersection. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by stop signs for north/southbound vehicles. It was daylight; with no adverse conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 2 entered the intersection to proceed straight, across the path of the westbound Chevrolet pickup. As Vehicle 2 crossed the westbound lane, the frontal area impacted the left side surface of Vehicle 1. Impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, both vehicles rotated counterclockwise and began their respective post-impact trajectories towards the northwest sector of the intersection. Vehicle 1 came to rest on the north shoulder facing northeast. Vehicle 2 began traveling laterally and departed the north pavement edge into a roadside ditch. The ditch slope produced a roll moment as Vehicle 2's center of gravity was tipped outboard of its wheels. This initiated a 4-quarter turn right side rollover. Vehicle 2 came to rest (upright) on the north shoulder facing southeast. The unbelted 57 year old male driver of the 2006 Chevrolet Silverado pickup was presumed to be faced forward, and seated in an upright posture. The driver reported that he was unrestrained (3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system available), which was confirmed by the vehicle's Event Data Recorder (EDR) reporting the driver's belt switch status as "unbuckled". At impact, the driver initiated a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 10 o'clock impact force and loaded the left door interior surface. Indentations and scuff marks were identified along the interior surface of this component. The distinct contact pattern was attributed to lower extremity engagement. A localized transfer of hair strands was noted on the roof side rail, just forward of the B-pillar. The headliner fabric surrounding the contact site was also found to be abraded. No contact evidence was documented on the deployed frontal air bag. Following the crash, the unbelted driver and belted 57 year old female front right passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was admitted for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. The front right passenger's treatment status was unknown (reported minor injuries). Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.