This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted, 53-year old, female driver with deployed airbags, a belted, 74-year old, female passenger with deployed airbags, and an unbelted, 55-year old male passenger with deployed airbags. The injuries were moderate for the driver, serious for the female passenger, and severe for the male passenger. This vehicle was involved in left side impact with a midsized sedan. The crash occurred mid-afternoon in dry, clear weather. A 2007 Honda Civic coupe (v1) was crossing through a four-way intersection on a rural, bituminous, two-lane roadway heading north. There was a 1% downhill grade approaching the intersection which was controlled by a red flash signal and stop sign. A 1999 Buick Century sedan (v2) was traveling east over a hillcrest approaching the same intersection. V2's direction of travel was controlled by a yellow flash signal. As v1 began crossing the intersection, its left plane was impacted by v2's front. V1 subsequently rotated clockwise 310 degrees, coming to rest off the northeast roadside. V2 traveled a short distance east before coming to rest in the roadway. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. V1 was driven by a 53-year old female case occupant and occupied by a 74-year old female right front case occupant as well as a 55-year old male right rear case occupant. The driver was restrained by a lap and shoulder belt with actuated retractor and buckle pretensioners. The right front seat occupant was restrained by a lap and shoulder belt with actuated retractor and buckle pretensioners. The right rear occupant was unrestrained. The left curtain and driver's seatback torso airbags deployed as a result of impact. The available steering wheel, passenger front, right curtain, and right front seatback airbags did not deploy. The driver and right rear passenger were transported by ground to a local trauma center and diagnosed with moderate and severe injuries, respectively. The right front occupant was transported to a local hospital by ground ambulance where she was diagnosed with serious injuries before being transferred to a local trauma center.