This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted, 77-year old, female passenger with a deployed airbag. This right front passenger sustained serious injuries. The vehicle was driven by a 65-year old male whose injuries were reported as "possible". This vehicle was involved in left side impact with a pickup truck. The crash occurred early evening before sunset in dry, clear weather. A 2009 BMW 528i sedan (v1) was crossing through a four-way intersection on a rural, bituminous, two-lane roadway heading south. The grade was 5% uphill before leveling out at a hillcrest approaching the intersection, which was controlled by two stop signs. A 2010 Toyota Tundra pickup (v2) was traveling west approaching the same intersection on a 1% downhill grade just after a hillcrest. As v1 began crossing the intersection, its left plane was impacted by v2's front (Event 1). V1 subsequently rotated clockwise as v2 rotated counter-clockwise, causing the left rear plane of v1 to impact the right plane of v2 in a sideslap pattern (Event 2). V1 then traveled a short distance before impacting and coming to rest against a stop sign on a raised median (Event 3). V2 continued off the southwest corner of the intersection, coming to rest on the roadside. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. V1 was driven by a 65-year old male non-case occupant and occupied by a 77-year old female right front case occupant. The driver was restrained by a lap and shoulder belt with an actuated buckle pretensioner. The driver's steering wheel, left head tube, and door torso airbags deployed as a result of impact. The right front seat case occupant was restrained by a lap and shoulder belt with a non-actuated buckle pretensioner. Her instrument panel airbag deployed, but the head tube and door torso airbags did not deploy. The driver and passenger were transported by ground to a local hospital where the driver was treated and released. The passenger was diagnosed with serious injuries and transferred to a local trauma center.