This frontal crash case involves a 36 year old restrained male seated in the 2nd row left seating position who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred during the early morning hours (dark, with lights) in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred within the confines of an interchange, on a one lane, one way right curved exit ramp. Toward the end of the exit ramp the road splits off allowing traffic to travel north and south. At the time of the crash the southbound portion of the ramp was permanently (blocked by concrete traffic barriers) closed not allowing traffic to travel south. The roadway has a positive 3 % grade and there was a curve warning sign present at the entrance of the exit ramp. The case vehicle (V1) a 2004 four-door Honda Civic was being driven southeast The crash occurred when V1 lost control exiting a right curve and traveled off the left side road edge impacting a concrete traffic barrier with its front bumper. After initial impact V1 rotated counterclockwise 90 degrees before traveling to final rest facing south. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V1 was driven by a 33 year old male non-case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor and buckle type pretensioner did fire). The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed as a result of the impact. The driver was injured in the crash and transported to a local level 1 trauma center for treatment of his injuries. The front right 23 year old female non-case occupant was not restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor pretensioner did fire) and the available top mounted instrument panel passenger air bag deployed as a result of the impact. This front right seat passenger was also injured and transported from the scene to a local Level 1 trauma center for treatment of her injuries. The 36 year old male case occupant was seated in the 2nd row, left seating position (behind driver) and he was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt with a switchable retractor in ELR mode. There are no air bags available at this seating position and the seat is not adjustable. The 2nd seat back was deformed forward (longitudinally) 5 cm by a 50lb bag of concrete that was stored in the trunk of the vehicle. This case occupant was seriously injured and transported to a local level 1 trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of his injuries.