Case Focus: The focus of this case is on an 81-year old, right front, female passenger (case occupant), of a 2007 Dodge Grand Caravan, which was primarily involved in a moderate, frontal impact with a drainage culvert. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the late morning hours (daylight), of a fall weekday, on a curved, two-lane east/west roadway. This bituminous roadway is level, but curves left for the eastbound travel direction. At the time of the crash, the weather conditions were cloudy, but the roadway surface and the surrounding roadsides were wet from a previous rain. The speed limit for this east/west roadway is 50 mph (80 km/h) and the overall environment is rural. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Dodge Caravan minivan, was being operated in the eastbound travel lane by a 79-year old male driver. Occupying the right front seating position was the 81-year old female case occupant. Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts (buckle pretensioners present). Vehicle 1 is also noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, side curtains and a driver's deployable knee bolster panel. Crash: Vehicle 1 continued traveling straight as the roadway curved to the left and subsequently departed the right edge of the roadway. At this time, Vehicle 1 struck the two wooden posts of a roadway sign (events 1 & 2) with its frontal plane and continued on, subsequently striking a drainage culvert (metal wagon wheel lawn ornament also present) with its frontal plane (event 3). At this time, it appears that Vehicle 1 traversed or jumped a gravel driveway before striking the ground (and minor shrubbery) on the far side (event 4). Vehicle 1 continued through an open field and eventually contacted three utility pole support wires with its frontal plane (events 5 & 6) and left side plane (event 7) as it came to final rest. It is suspected that Vehicle 1's frontal air bags, driver's deployable knee bolster panel and buckle pretensioners deployed/actuated upon impact with the drainage culvert (event 3). Post-Crash: Both the driver and right front occupant of Vehicle 1 were transported from the scene, by land unit, to a local hospital. The driver was hospitalized with reportedly moderate injuries while the right front occupant (case occupant) was subsequently transferred, by land unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.