Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 57-year old, right-front, male passenger, of a 2008 Toyota Tacoma, which was involved in a rollover event. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the mid-day hours (daylight), of a winter weekday, on a two-lane, southbound roadway. This roadway is straight and level, with paved west shoulder and a narrowly paved east shoulder. Embankments/ditches and trees run parallel on either side of the road and the physical environment is rural. At time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The speed limit for this southbound roadway is 55 mph (89 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2008 Toyota Tacoma 4-door pick-up truck, was being operated by a 62-year old female driver, in the left, southbound travel lane. Occupying the right front seating position was the 57-year old male case occupant. Both were utilizing their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts (with retractor pretensioers). Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with frontal impact air bags only. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling southbound with no planned alterations to the vehicle's heading. Crash: As Vehicle 1 traveled south, it drifted off the left edge of the roadway and traveled along the grass embankment for some distance. At this time, the driver became aware of the situation and over-steered right, placing the vehicle in a left side leading yaw. Vehicle 1 regained the roadway, but subsequently tripped once the front left tire de-beaded. Vehicle 1 rolled left about its longitudinal axis across both southbound travel lanes and departed the roadway to the right. Vehicle 1 came to rest upright, in the ditch area, on the west side of the roadway, facing a northerly direction. There were no air bag deployments for this rollover type crash. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital where she was treated and released with minor injuries. The 57-year old, right front male passenger (case occupant) was transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to critical injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.