Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 19-year old, female driver, of a 2007 Volkswagen Passat station wagon, who was involved in a near-side collision by the frontal plane of a 2004 Chevrolet Silverado pick-up truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) of a spring weekday, at the intersection of a two-lane, east/west residential roadway and a four-lane, north/south roadway. The eastern leg of the intersection is relatively straight, with a slight downhill grade, and intersects the north/south roadway at a right angle on the eastside. The north/south roadway consists of two northbound lanes and two southbound lanes. The northbound travel direction (southern leg) has an uphill grade and the roadway has slight left turning curve leading into and beyond the intersection. The speed limit for the north/south roadway is 40 mph (64 km/h), while the east/west residential roadway has a speed limit of 25 mph (40 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were reported to be dry. The overall environment is residential in nature. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Volkswagen Passat station wagon, was being operated by the 19-year old female driver (case occupant), at the westbound travel lane, of the eastern leg of the intersection. She intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling south. Occupying the right front seating position was a 21-year old female passenger. Both occupants were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts (with retractor type pretensioners) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, front outboard side impact air bags and roof side rail curtains. Vehicle 2, a 2004 Chevrolet Silverado pick-up truck, was approaching the intersection from the south, in the right northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling north. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (left front/center area). As a result, Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise and came to rest at the northeast corner of the intersection, while Vehicle 2 came to rest just north of the intersection, facing a northerly direction. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed and the front, seat belt pretensioners actuated (no side air bag deployments). Post-Crash: The driver (case occupant) and passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported, by land unit, to a local hospital. The passenger was treated and released, but the driver was subsequently transferred to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to have sustained possible injuries and was transported to a local hospital for treatment. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.