Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 19-year old, male driver (case occupant), of a 2004 Volkswagen Jetta 4-door sedan, which was involved in a near side impact with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the evening hours (dark), of a fall weekend, on curved and graded, two-lane, rural roadway. This bituminous roadway runs north and south and has downhill grade, leading into a sharp right turning curve for the southbound travel direction. Through the curve, the roadway levels somewhat; however, just beyond the termination of the curve the roadway straightens out with a slight crest before the roadway drops with another downhill graded section. The overall environment is rural in nature. At time of the crash, the weather conditions were clear and the roadway surface was dry. The speed limit for the east/west roadway is 35 mph (56 km/h). Vehicle 1, a 2004 Volkswagen Jetta 4-door sedan, was being operated in the southbound travel lane by the 19-year old male driver (case occupant). He was restrained by a manual, 3-point, lap/shoulder belt and was sitting in an upright position within his bucket seat. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with frontal, side curtain and side, seat back mounted (front, outboard positions) air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the curved section of roadway and continue traveling south. Crash: While negotiating the right turning curved section of roadway, Vehicle 1 was not able to maintain its original southbound travel lane. At or just beyond the termination of the curve, Vehicle 1 entered and crossed over the northbound travel lane. Based upon impact trajectory and damage, it appears that the driver may have initiated multiple counter-steering maneuvers in order to maintain the roadway, but was unable to do so. Vehicle 1 departed the east roadside and entered a wooded area with a slight slip angle (left side leading) and subsequently struck a tree (26 cm in diameter) with its left side plane, at the driver's door area (event 1). Vehicle 1 pivoted counterclockwise around the tree and came to rest, at or near the struck tree, facing a somewhat easterly direction. As a result of the impact with the tree, Vehicle 1's left side rail curtain and the driver's seat back mounted, hip/torso side air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle and transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and was hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash scene due to damage sustained in the crash.