Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 65-year old male driver (case occupant), of a 2005 Chevrolet Cobalt, which was involved in a severe, frontal under ride impact, with the rear plane of a 2007 Hino Model 268 straight truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the post afternoon hours (daylight), of an early fall weekend, on a straight and level, four-lane roadway. This roadway is the eastbound travel direction of an east/west trafficway. The two travel directions are separated by a curbed, grass median. The posted speed limit for the eastbound travel is 45 mph (72 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The 65-year old male driver (case occupant) was operating Vehicle 1, the 2005 Chevrolet Cobalt 4-door sedan, in the third eastbound travel lane (third from right). He was traveling directly behind Vehicle 2. He was restrained by a 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with a retractor type pretensioner) and the case vehicle is noted to be equipped with frontal air bags (2nd generation) and side curtains. Vehicle 2, a 2007 Hino Model 268 straight truck, was traveling eastbound, directly ahead of Vehicle 1. Crash: Vehicle 2 apparently slowed due to traffic congestion or for a traffic signal/intersection some distance away (unknown reasons at this time) as Vehicle 1 approached from behind. The driver of Vehicle 1 may have tried to steer left, but Vehicle 1's frontal plane struck and under rode Vehicle 2's rear plane (back of the straight truck/cargo area). Both vehicles came to rest at or near the impact area in their original eastbound travel lane. As a result of this impact, Vehicle 1's seat belt pretensioners actuated the frontal air bags and right side curtain deployed. Post-Crash: Vehicle 1's left rear door and left B-pillar were removed by the responding fire/rescue personnel and the 65-year old male driver of Vehicle 1 was removed and transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed due damage sustained in the impact; however, the driver and passenger of Vehicle 2 were uninjured and Vehicle 2 was driven away from the scene.