Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 51-year old, right front female passenger, of a 2008 Saturn Outlook, who was primarily involved in a near side collision with the frontal plane of a 2010 Mercedes-Benz ML450. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This multi-vehicle collision occurred during the post mid-day hours (daylight) of a summer weekday, at the intersection of an east/west roadway and a north/south trafficway. The western leg of the intersection is composed of three eastbound lanes and two west bound lanes, while the eastern leg is composed of three westbound lanes and one eastbound lane. The northern and southern legs of the intersection did not play a part in the crash. Both the eastern and western roadway approaches to the intersection are curved, but relatively level, while the north/south traffic way is straight, with an uphill grade for the northbound direction. The intersection is controlled by standard, tri-colored electric traffic signals. The speed limit for the east/west roadway is 35 mph (56 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were reported to be dry. Vehicle 1, the 2008 Saturn Outlook, was being operated by a 61-year old male driver. Occupying the right front seating position was the 51-year old right front female passenger (case occupant). Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts (with retractor type pretensioner) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, side impact torso air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. Vehicle 1 was at the western leg of the intersection, in the center eastbound lane, intending to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling north. Vehicle 2, a 2010 Mercedes-Benz ML450, was at the eastern leg of the intersection, in the center westbound travel lane, intending to cross through the intersection and continue traveling west. Vehicle 3, a 2008 Lexus ES350 sedan, was at the western leg of the intersection, in the left eastbound travel lane, intending to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling north. Vehicle 3 was likely next to and in close proximity to Vehicle 1. Vehicle 4, a 2003 Mazda Tribute, was at the western leg of the intersection, in the center eastbound travel lane, intending to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling north. Vehicle 4 was directly behind Vehicle 1. Crash: All four vehicles entered the intersection and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1). As Vehicle 1 started to deflect/pivot counterclockwise, its left side plane was struck by the front right corner of Vehicle 3 (event 2). At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 4 struck the rear plane of Vehicle 1 (event 3). Vehicle's 1, 2 and 4 came to rest within the intersection, while Vehicle 3 came to rest somewhere within the northbound lanes of the north leg of the intersection. As a result of this crash, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed, as did the side rail curtains and the front passenger's side torso air bag. Post-Crash: Both the driver and passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center. The driver was treated and released, while the right front passenger (case occupant) was hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2, as well as the driver and passenger of Vehicle 4, were transported to a local trauma center. The extent of their injuries and treatments, if any, are unknown. The driver of Vehicle 3 was reported to be uninjured. All four involved vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.