Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 46-year old, female driver (case occupant), of a 2005 Chevrolet Express Cargo Van, which was involved in an offset frontal impact. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours (dusk), of a fall weekday, on a level, three lane, north/south roadway, at the entrance/driveway to a local gas station. This north/south roadway consists of two northbound lanes and one southbound lane. The southbound travel lane, as it approaches the crash area, has a slight right turning curve which terminates (straightens) just prior to the crash area. At time of the crash, it was raining and the roadway surfaces were wet. The speed limit for the north/south roadway is 40 mph (64 km/h). Vehicle 1, a 2005 Chevrolet Express Cargo Van, was being operated in the left northbound travel lane, by the 46-year old female driver (case occupant). She was restrained by an available 3-point, lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with frontal impact air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling north. Vehicle 2, a 2001 Ford F-350 large pick-up truck, was traveling south and had just exited the curved section of the roadway, as it approached the crash area from the north. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to turn left at the driveway entrance to the gas station. Crash: Both vehicles entered the crash area at the same time, with the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 striking the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 in an offset fashion. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise and unknown degree and came to rest in the northbound travel lanes, at or near the driveway entrance. Vehicle 2 is suspected to have rotated somewhat counterclockwise, but to an unknown degree, before coming to rest in the middle of the north/south roadway, at the area of the driveway entrance. As a result of this impact, the frontal air bags for Vehicle 1 deployed. Post-Crash: The 46-year old female driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was removed from the vehicle by responding emergency medical services personnel (driver's door removed). She was transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.