Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 32-year old, female driver, of a 2005 Chevrolet Trailblazer utility vehicle, which was primarily involved in a rollover event. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the early afternoon hours (daylight) of a late summer weekday, on a two-lane, eastbound roadway. This roadway forms the eastbound travel direction of an east/west trafficway. The roadway is noted to have a moderate left turning curve with the presence of a guardrail at the grass median. The roadway has a slight down hill grade and a speed limit of 55 mph (89 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear, but the roadway surface was reported to be wet. Vehicle 1, the 2005 Chevrolet Trailblazer utility vehicle, was being operated by the 32-year old female driver (case occupant) in the left, eastbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was noted to be utilizing her respective 3-point, lap/shoulder belt restraint (with retractor type pretensioner). Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags only. Crash: For unknown reasons, while negotiating the left turning curve, Vehicle 1 experienced a loss of control. It is believed that the driver of Vehicle 1 initiated counter-steering maneuvers, but was unsuccessful. At some point Vehicle 1 may have flipped-over as it headed toward the median and the guardrail located there. While in the process of rolling over, Vehicle 1 departed the roadway to the left and struck the median guardrail with its right side plane. Vehicle 1 continued to roll about 30 meters east of the guardrail impact area and came to rest in the median, on its wheels, facing a northwesterly direction. There was no air bag deployments associated with this crash. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1was removed from the vehicle by responding emergency medical services personnel and transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.