Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 51-year old, right front female passenger, of a 2004 Acura TSX, which was involved in a frontal impact with the rear plane of a 2009 Chevrolet Suburban. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the evening hours (dark) of a spring weekday, on a straight, three-lane, bituminous, westbound roadway (one, high-occupancy-vehicle lane (HOV) is located to the left of the three eastbound travel lanes, but separated by two solid painted lines from the other eastbound lanes). This roadway is relatively level with no abnormalities and no sight line impediments. The speed limit is 65 mph (105 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was reported to be dry. The overall environment is rural. Vehicle 1, the 2004 Acura TSX, was being operated by a 58-year old male driver, in the left eastbound through lane. Occupying the right front seating position was the 51-year old female passenger (case occupant). Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts (with retractor type pretensioner presence) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with second generation frontal air bags, front outboard, torso side air bags and roof rail curtains. Vehicle 2, a 2009 Chevrolet Suburban utility station wagon, was stopped (mechanical breakdown) in the left eastbound travel lane, some unknown distance ahead of Vehicle 1 with emergency flashers activated. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 approached the broken down Vehicle 2 and was unable to stop or change lanes. Vehicle 1's frontal plane struck and under rode the rear plane of Vehicle 2. Both vehicles moved forward a short distance from their initial impact area and came to rest, facing and easterly direction. As a result of this impact, the frontal air bags deployed for Vehicle 1 as did the right front passenger's side torso air bag and the right side curtain. The front seat belt pretensioners also actuated. Post-Crash: Both occupant's of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local hospital, by land unit, but were transferred to a local trauma center later the next day. The driver was treated and released, but the case occupant was hospitalized for 5 days at the local trauma center before being transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized for an additional six (6) days with minor to moderate injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported uninjured and was not transported from the scene. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.