Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 55-year old, female driver, of a 2009 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a near side collision (left plane) with the frontal plane of a 2007 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight) of a summer weekday, at the crossover area of an east/west trafficway and a business driveway/parking area. The eastbound roadway of the trafficway has a downhill grade and a left turning curve as it enters the crossover area from the west. It is composed of three bituminous travel lanes (two through lanes and one dedicated left turn lane). The eastbound roadway is separated from the westbound roadway by a grassy median, with the noted presence of trees. The business driveway intersects the eastbound roadway on the south side and is relatively straight and level. The speed limit for the east/west trafficway is 45 mph (72 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were reported to be dry. Vehicle 1, the 2009 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 55-year old female driver (case occupant) and sole occupant. Vehicle 1 was at the business driveway, facing north. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to cross over the eastbound roadway and turn left in order to continue traveling west. The driver of Vehicle 1 was believed to be belted (with retractor type prestensioner), based upon EDR information indicating driver's belt being buckled, but vehicle damage prevented a visible confirmation of belt usage. The vehicle itself is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, a driver knee bolster air bag, front (outboard) seat back mounted side torso air bags and roof side rail curtains. Vehicle 2, a 2007 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound, in the left eastbound through lane, approaching the crossover area from the west. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling east. Crash: Both vehicles entered the crossover area at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 impacted the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1). Both vehicles subsequently "side slapped" (event 2) with the left side plane of Vehicle 1 striking the right side plane of Vehicle 2. Both vehicles were redirected to the northeast (east median tip). Vehicle 1 departed the roadway at the east median and struck a tree with its front left corner area (event 3) and came to rest facing a northeasterly direction. Vehicle 2 came to rest at the edge of the median tip, facing a north/northeasterly direction. As a result of its initial impact with Vehicle 2, the driver's frontal air bag, knee bolster air bag, side torso air bag and left side rail curtain deployed. Post-Crash: Both drivers were transported from the scene, by a land unit, to a local hospital: however, the driver of the Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was subsequently transferred to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. Occupant Kinematics: This 55-year old female case occupant was the belted driver of a 2009 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, which was involved in a moderate, 10 o'clock near side impact, by the frontal plane of a 2007 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan. The case occupant was noted to be utilizing a 3-point lap/shoulder belt, which was based upon event data recorder (EDR) information, but with unknown pretensioner actuation (belt system components/B-pillar was not available for inspection). Noted air bag deployments for the impact included the driver's frontal, knee bolster, side torso and left side rail curtain. The case occupant was sitting upright in a bucket seat, which was adjusted to the mid-to-forward seat track position. At the time of the crash, the case occupant was 63 inches (160 cm) in height and weighed 115 pounds (52 kg). During the crash, the case occupant was projected mostly left and slightly forward, in reference to the vehicle. She probably loaded her seat belt restraint although to what extent is unknown; however, she loaded her interior door panel at the rear lower quadrant with her left hip (deformation at the armrest) and the rear upper quadrant with her left flank (inferred). Although the vehicle was involved in a minor "side slap" with Vehicle 2 and a minor tree impact at the front left corner subsequent to the main, near side impact, these were deemed to be inconsequential and not related to any of injuries the case occupant sustained. The case occupant came to rest within her respective seating area, though the volume of space was reduced somewhat due to the lateral intrusion of the door panel. Injury Analysis: The case occupant's injuries include: bilateral fractures of pubic rami (superior and inferior), a left sacral fracture and a left iliac bone fracture, all of which were due certain loading of the door panel/armrest at the rear lower quadrant. The case occupant also sustained a left, 5th rib fracture (antero-lateral) due to contact with the rear upper quadrant of the door panel (probable) and very minor bilateral lower leg contusions/lacerations due to unknown contact source(s). The maximum Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS) for this case occupant was AIS 4.