Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 40-year old, female driver, of a 2009 Volkswagen Touareg 2, which was involved in a frontal collision with a building wall. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight) of a summer weekday, at the intersection of an east/west roadway and a north/south trafficway. The east/west roadway intersects the north/south roadway, at an angle, on the west side. The roadway has an uphill grade and left turning curve prior to the intersection. The north/south roadway is straight with a downhill grade for the southbound travel direction. At the intersection, located on the east side of the north/south roadway, is a parking area where some farm associated buildings are located. The speed limit for the east/west roadway is 40 mph (64 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was reported to be dry. Vehicle 1, the 2009 Volkswagen Touareg 2 utility vehicle, was being operated by the 40-year old female driver (case occupant) and sole occupant, in the eastbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the west. She intended to turn right at the intersection and continue traveling south. The driver of Vehicle 1 was utilizing her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with retractor type pretensioner) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, front (outboard) seat back mounted side air bags and side rail curtains. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 approached the intersection, but continued to travel through the intersection, heading east. Vehicle 1 crossed the north/south roadway and departed the east roadside edge. Vehicle 1 continued across the gravel parking area and eventually struck the cinder block wall of a farm building with its frontal plane (event 1). Vehicle 1 came to rest at the impact area, facing an easterly direction. As a result of the wall/building impact, the driver's frontal impact air bag deployed for Vehicle 1 and the driver's belt pretensioner actuated. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle and transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.