Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 50-year old, female driver, of a 2005 Saab 9-3 4-door sedan, which was involved in an offset frontal impact with the frontal plane of a 2003 Kia Spectra 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours (daylight) of a spring weekday, on a curved, two-lane, bituminous, east/west roadway. This roadway has a down hill grade and a left turning curve for the eastbound travel direction. The speed limit is 40 mph (64 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was reported to be dry. The overall environment is rural. Vehicle 1, the 2005 Saab 9-3 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 50-year old female driver (case occupant), in the eastbound travel lane. She intended to negotiate the left turning curve and continue traveling east. She was utilizing an available 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle was noted to be equipped with redesigned frontal air bags, front outboard side impact air bags and side rail curtains. Vehicle 2, the 2003 Kia Spectra 4-door sedan, was traveling westbound. The driver was in the process of negotiating the right turning curve, approaching the crash area from the east. Crash: Vehicle 2, while traveling west, entered the eastbound travel lane at the curved area of the roadway. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 in an offset manner (front left half to front left half). Both vehicles are believed to have rotated slightly counterclockwise before coming to rest in the roadway. As a result of the impact, both frontal air bags and side rail curtains deployed for Vehicle 1. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was able to self-extricate herself and was found outside the vehicle, along the roadside, by the responding emergency services personnel (EMS). She was transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was also transported to the local trauma center with incapacitating injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.