Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 56-year old, female driver (case occupant), of a 2009 Chevrolet Aveo 5-door hatchback, which was involved in a narrow, front left corner impact. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight), of a fall weekday, on a graded and curved, two-lane, rural roadway. This roadway runs north and south and has a downhill grade for the southbound travel direction. The roadway curves right, straightens for a short distance before curving to the left ("S-type"). The weather conditions at the time of the crash area unknown, but the speed limit for this north/south roadway is 30 mph (48 km/h). Vehicle 1, a 2009 Chevrolet Aveo 4-door hatchback, was being operated in the southbound travel lane, by the 56-year old female driver (case occupant). Occupying the right front seating position was a 17-year old female. Neither occupant was utilizing their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts (pretensioner actuation locking belts in a retracted position), but the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags and front, seat back mounted, side air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the curved section of the roadway and continue traveling south. Vehicle 2, a 2010 Chevrolet K1500 Silverado large pick-up truck, was traveling northbound, negotiating the southern portion of the S-type curve. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to negotiate the curved sections of the roadway and continue traveling north. Crash: As Vehicle 2 exited its right turning, it drifted into the southbound travel lane as Vehicle 1 approached from the north. As a result, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 in an offset, narrow corner type impact. Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise as it departed the west edge of the roadway and was partially pushed backwards. Vehicle 1 came to rest at the west roadside while Vehicle 2 came to rest in the southbound travel. As a result of the frontal impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed (passenger's frontal air bag suppressed) and the front seat belt pretensioners actuated. Post-Crash: The driver and passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local trauma center by air unit. The passenger of Vehicle 1 was treated and released with minor injuries while the driver (case occupant) was hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.