Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 41-year old, female driver, of a 2008 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a frontal collision with an embankment. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the late morning hours (daylight) of a summer weekday, at the intersection of a north/south trafficway and an east/west roadway. The east/west roadway intersects the north/south trafficway on the east side forming a "T-type" intersection. The east/west roadway is straight and has a slight uphill grade as it enters the intersection. The north/south trafficway is curved for the southern leg of the intersection, while the northern leg of the intersection is straight. Located on the far western edge of the intersection (west roadside) is a small drainage ditch/gulley, with a high, far side embankment. The speed limit for the east/west roadway is 30 mph (48 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were reported to be dry. Vehicle 1, the 2008 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 41-year old female driver (case occupant) and sole occupant, in the westbound travel lane of the east/west roadway. The driver of Vehicle 1 was not belted, but the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, driver knee bolster air bag, front outboard, seat back mounted side air bags and side curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 was approaching the intersection from the east, but it is unknown if she intended to turn left or right at the intersection. Crash: Vehicle 1 entered the intersection, but continued to travel in a westerly direction with a slight right turning travel path. Vehicle crossed the northbound travel lanes and entered the grass and concrete median area where Vehicle 1 struck a sign post with its frontal plane (event 1) and then struck a slightly raised concrete island with its left front wheel/rim (event 2) and its left rear wheel/rim (event 3). Vehicle 1 continued west and crossed the southbound travel lanes before departing the western edge of the roadway and striking the far side embankment with its frontal plane (event 4). Vehicle 1 came to rest at the embankment still facing a westerly direction. As a result of Vehicle 1's impact with the embankment, the driver's frontal and knee bolster air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was removed by responding emergency medical services personnel (EMS) and transported a short distance, by land unit to a waiting air unit, then flown to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to critical injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.