This 22-year old male case occupant was the driver of a 2010 Chevrolet Camaro, which was involved in a severe, 11 o'clock, left side impact with a tree. The case occupant was not restrained by an available 3-point lap/shoulder belt, but the driver's frontal impact air bag deployed, as did his side hip/torso air bag and the left roof side rail curtain. The case occupant was sitting upright in a bucket seat, which was found adjusted to the rear seat track position. At the time of the crash, the case occupant was 71 in (180 cm) in height and weighed 175 lbs (79 kg). During the impact, the case occupant was projected forward and left, in reference to the vehicle. He is suspected of engaging the left A-pillar with his head/face (contact with curtain air bag reinforced by the tree is also possible) while his right chest/abdomen area bent the steering wheel rim and his left chest/flank area contacted the door panel as he moved to the left of the steering wheel. His left knee is suspected of engaging the junction area of the left knee bolster/door panel, while his right knee loaded the knee bolster as his right foot engaged the toe pan ("nut cracker" type loading pattern). Given the presence of an unbelted right front passenger, it is suspected that there was some occupant to occupant contact, mostly to the case occupant's right upper torso area. The case occupant came to rest, entrapped within the overall driver's seating area, with noted loss of volume/space due to intruded frontal and left side components of the vehicle. The case occupant's injuries include: bilateral eye contusions, a chin laceration, lip lacerations, a left brain contusion, a left subarachnoid hemorrhage, LeFort III fractures (bilateral) including left (body) and right (condyle) mandible fractures, all the result of probable contact with the left A-pillar. A right chest contusion, a duodenum contusion, a right lung contusion and a pancreas contusion were attributed to probable contact with the steering wheel rim, while a spleen laceration, a left 2nd rib fracture, a left pneumorthorax and a left lung contusion were attributed to probable contact with the interior door panel. A left femur shaft fracture was the probable result of contact with the knee bolster/left door panel junction area, while a right tibia and fibula shaft fractures were the result of certain loading of the right knee to the knee bolster as the right foot loaded the toe pan ("nutcracker" type loading pattern). The case occupant also sustained a right scapula fracture (coracoid), a right upper arm contusion and a right shoulder contusion, which were attributed to possible interaction with the right front passenger (occupant to occupant contact). The maximum Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS) for this case occupant was AIS 4.