Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 67-year old, right front female passenger, of a 2007 Toyota Avalon 4-door sedan, which was involved in a frontal impact with the end of a guardrail barrier (impact attenuator). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours (daylight), of a winter weekday, at the gore area of an interchange. This gore area separates a southbound deceleration lane from four southbound through lanes of a north/south trafficway. The southbound roadway is level and has a left turning curve. At the gore area, two guardrails form a single structure with the end of the guardrail structure being an impact attenuator. At time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The speed limit for the southbound roadway is 65 mph (105 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2007 Toyota Avalon 4-door sedan, was being operated by a 72-year old male driver, in the right southbound travel lane. Occupying the right front seating position was the 67-year old female case occupant. Both occupant's of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts (with retractor type pretensioners) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, a driver's knee bolster air bag, front outboard hip/torso side air bags and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 was approaching the gore/interchange area from the north. Vehicle 2, a 1993 Honda Civic 2-door hatchback, was traveling southbound in the deceleration lane, approaching the gore area from the north. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling in the deceleration lane in order to change trafficways. Crash: While traveling southbound, the driver of Vehicle 1 attempted to change lanes to the right in order to access the southbound deceleration lane. As a result, Vehicle 1 entered the painted area of the gore and subsequently struck the end of the guardrail (impact attenuator / event 1) with its frontal plane. Vehicle 1 began to rotate counterclockwise, but rotated into the southbound deceleration lane as Vehicle 2 approached. Subsequently, Vehicle 2's frontal plane struck the left rear plane of Vehicle 1 contributing to Vehicle 1's counterclockwise rotation. Vehicle 1 continued to rotate and struck the guardrail again with it right and back planes (suspected continuous contact / event 3) before coming to rest in the southbound deceleration lane. Vehicle 2 continued beyond the impact area and came to rest at the west shoulder area of the southbound deceleration lane. As a result of its impact with the guardrail/impact attenuator, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed as did the driver's knee bolster air bag. Vehicle 1's left side curtain and the driver's hip/torso side air bag also deployed as a result of the crash. Post-Crash: Both the driver and right front passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center. The driver was treated and released, but the right front female passenger (case occupant) was hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to have sustained non-incapacitating injuries. Vehicle 1 and 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.