Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 21-year old, female driver, of a 2006 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, which was involved in a near side impact with the frontal plane of a 2003 Dodge Dakota pick-up truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the post mid-night hours (dark, street lights present), of a winter weekday, at the intersection of two roadways. The eastern leg of the intersection is composed of two travel lanes and represents the entrance to a small residential subdivision. The western leg of the intersection consists of two travel lanes as well and is a continuation of the east/west roadway. The north/south roadway, at the area of the intersection, is composed of three travel lanes and has a negative downhill grade leading into the intersection from the south. The southern leg of the intersection consists of one northbound lane and two southbound lanes, while the northern leg of the intersection has two southbound lanes and one northbound lane. Both roadways are straight and intersect at a right angle. At the time of the crash the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were reportedly dry. The east/west roadway has a speed limit of 25 mph (40 km/h), while the north/south roadway has a speed limit of 40 mph (64 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2006 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 21-year old female driver (case occupant), in the eastern leg of the intersection, approaching the intersection from the east. The driver of Vehicle intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling southbound. She was utilizing her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with pretensioner) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags. Vehicle 2, a 2003 Dodge Dakota pick-up truck, was traveling northbound, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to travel through the intersection and continue traveling north. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time, with the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 striking the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1). As a result of this impact, Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise as it was redirected to the northwest corner of the intersection, where it came to rest, off road, facing a southeasterly direction. Vehicle 2, after impact, also rotated counterclockwise as it traveled to its final rest position, north of the intersection, in the southbound travel lane, facing a southerly direction. As a result of the impact, the driver's frontal air bag deployed for Vehicle 1. Post-Crash: Both driver's were transported, by land units, to a local hospitals, but the driver of Vehicle 1 was subsequently transported to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to have sustained non-incapacitating injuries, but the extent of her injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.