Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 21-year old, male driver, of a 2006 Mazda 3, 4-door hatchback, who was involved in a full frontal impact (head-on), with the frontal plane of a tractor-trailer. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred in the evening hours (dark, street lights present), of a winter weekend, on an east/west roadway. This roadway runs within the area of commercial business park and at the area of the crash, the roadway has one eastbound lane, one westbound lane and one westbound, left turn lane. The east/west roadway is straight, but the eastbound travel lane angles/shifts to the left to accommodate a paved parking area adjacent to the south roadway edge. The east/west roadway has a speed limit of 40 mph (64 km/h) and a negative downhill grade for the eastbound travel direction. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the bituminous roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2006 Mazda 3, 4-door hatchback, was being operated by the 21-year old male driver (case occupant) in the eastbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was noted to be utilizing his 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with retractor type pretensioner) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, side air bags (front, outboard) and side rail curtains. Vehicle 2, an unknown Peterbilt tractor, with one trailer, was parked at the south roadside edge (parking area), facing a westerly direction. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 departed the right side of the roadway as it traveled east and entered the painted parking area adjacent to the roadway. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck and underrode the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 and came to rest at the area of impact. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was pinned within the vehicle and required 25 minute extrication, before being transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. Both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 had to be towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.