Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 25-year old, female driver, of a 2008 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, who was primarily involved in a frontal impact with a guardrail (face). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred in the evening hours (dark, street lights present) of late winter weekday, in the northbound roadway, of a north/south trafficway. The northbound roadway consists of three bituminous travel lanes and has a positive uphill grade. The roadway, at the crash area, is straight, but there is a right turning curve some distance prior to the roadway straightening. The northbound roadway has a speed limit of 65 mph (105 km/h), and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the bituminous roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2008 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 25-year old female driver (case occupant), in the right, northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was noted to be utilizing her 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with retractor & buckle pretensioner) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, side hip/torso air bags (front, outboard) and side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling north, in the right northbound travel lane. Vehicle 2, a 1990 International 4600 LP 4x2 dump truck, was traveling northbound, in the center northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to change lanes to the right and enter the right northbound travel lane. Crash: As Vehicle 2 changed lanes, its front right plane struck the back left corner of Vehicle 1 (event 1) causing Vehicle 1 to experience a loss of control. Vehicle 1 eventually departed the right side of the roadway where it struck the face of a guardrail with its frontal plane. Vehicle 1 eventually under rode the guardrail (top plane impact / event 3) while it rotated clockwise to its final rest position at the right shoulder area, facing a southeasterly direction. Vehicle 2 came to a controlled stop, further north, at the right shoulder area. Due to its impact with the guardrail, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag, side hip/torso air bag and left side rail curtain deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was able to self-extricate herself through the driver's side window area. She was eventually transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to have sustained possible injuries, but was not transported from the scene. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. Vehicle 2 was towed, but due to damage.