Case Focus: The focus of this case is a 29-year old, male driver, of a 2011 Infiniti G37xs 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a near side collision with the frontal plane of a 2005 Honda Accord. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the post midinight hours (dark, street lights present), of fall weekend, at the intersection of two urban roadways. The north/south roadway consists of two northbound lanes and two southbound lanes and has downhill grade for the southbound travel direction, leading into the intersection. The westbound roadway (one-way) consists of three through westbound travel lanes and one dedicated right turn, as leads into the intersection from the east. The westbound roadway also has unhill grade leading into the intersection. Both roadways are straight, with a speed limit of 35 mph (56 km/h), and the intersection is controlled by overhead, standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2011 Infiniti G37xs 4-door sedan, was being by the 29-year old male driver (case occupant) in the far right, southbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the north. The driver of Vehicle 1 was noted to be utilizing his 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted side impact air bags and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling south. Vehicle 2, a 2005 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, was traveling westbound, in the center westbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the east. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling west. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1). Both vehicles were redirected to the southwest corner of the intersection. Vehicle 1, while rotating counterclockwise, struck the southwest corner curb with its right front wheel (event 2) before striking an exposed brick building pillar with its right side plane (event 3) and then the corner of the brick building itself, with its rear plane (event 4). Vehicle 1 came to rest at the building, facing a northeasterly direction. Vehicle 2 came to rest at the southwest corner of the intersection, facing a southwesterly direction. As result of the first impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag and seat back mounted air bags deployed. As a result of the wheel impact with the curb (event 2), Vehicle 1's right front seat back mounted side air bag deployed. Due to post crash damage (fire rescue extrication efforts) and the fact that the roof structure was not available for inspection, it could not be determined if Vehicle 1's roof side rail curtains deployed. Post-Crash: Both drivers were transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was treated and released. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.