Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 38-year old, right front, male passenger, of a 2012 Chevrolet Silverado 2500 HD pick-up truck, which was primarily involved in a frontal collision with a pole. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight), of a winter weekday, on a north/south trafficway, at the location of a crossover area. The southbound roadway is composed of three travel lanes (two southbound through lanes and one dedicated left turn lane), while the northbound roadway has two through lanes. Both roadways are straight and level, with a raised grass median separating the two travel directions. The speed limit for the southbound travel direction is 30 mph (48 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2012 Chevrolet Silverado 2500HD pick-up truck, was being operated by a male driver, in the left southbound through lane, approaching a crossover area from the north. Occupying the right front seating position was the 38-year old male case occupant. Neither occupant was restrained by their available 3-point, lap/shoulder belts, but the vehicle was noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling southbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 traveled south, it drifted left out of its travel lane and crossed into the left turn lane. Vehicle 1 continued to drift left as it traveled southbound and entered the crossover area. At this time, Vehicle 1 passed through the crossover area, while traveling south, and entered the south median where it subsequently struck a lamp pole (stone/concrete composite) with its frontal plane. At this time, Vehicle 1 started to rotate clockwise as the pole yielded and upper portions started to shear. Due to the impact, upper portions of the pole fell and struck the top plane of Vehicle 1 (hood and roof panel areas). Vehicle 1 came to rest in the median, after rotating approximately ninety degrees clockwise, facing a westerly direction. As a result of its initial impact with the pole, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was reported as uninjured; however, the 38-year old right front passenger of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was transported from the scene, by land unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.