Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 23-year old, female driver, of a 2007 Dodge Caliber, who was involved in impact with a drainage ditch/culvert with a subsequent rollover event. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred in the morning hours (daylight) of late winter weekday, on curved, two-lane roadway. This level roadway, in the area of the crash, runs generally east and west and has a left turning curve for the eastbound travel direction. Bordering the roadway on either side is a wide drainage ditch area. The roadway has a speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h) and the overall environment is rural. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Dodge Caliber, was being operated by the 23-year old female driver (case occupant), in the eastbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was noted to be utilizing her 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, a driver's knee bolster air bag and side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the left turning curve and continue traveling east. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 departed the south side of the roadway (right edge) and struck the drainage ditch/culvert area with its frontal plane (low, involving the front axles, wheels and undercarriage areas). At this time Vehicle 1 rolled over and traveled a short distance before coming to rest on its roof, at the south roadside, within the drainage ditch/culvert area. Due to the impact with the ditch/culvert, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed, as did the driver's knee bolster air bag. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle by responding emergency medical services personnel (EMS) and transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.