Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 48-year old, female driver, of a 2008 Honda CR-V involved in a narrow corner frontal impact with the frontal plane of a 1997 Ford Areostar minivan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This three-vehicle collision occurred in the afternoon hours (daylight) of fall weekday, on a straight and level, eastbound roadway, within the confines of an interchange. This roadway consists of three eastbound travel lanes as well as a right deceleration lane for the interchange. This roadway has a posted speed limit of 55 mph (89 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2008 Honda CR-V compact utility vehicle, was being operated by the 48-year old female driver (case occupant), in the right, eastbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling east. The driver of Vehicle 1 was noted to be utilizing her 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, front, seat back mounted, side torso air bags and roof side rail curtains. Vehicle 2, the 1997 Ford Areostar minivan was parked on the north median shoulder, of the eastbound roadway, facing a westerly direction, some distance ahead of Vehicle 1. Vehicle 3, a 2004 Ford Crown Victoria (police cruiser), was also parked on the north median shoulder, of the eastbound roadway, facing an easterly direction, next to or near Vehicle 2. The driver of Vehicle 3 was in the process of ascertaining if the driver of Vehicle 2 needed assistance. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 2 accelerated from its parked position and in so doing the left side plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 3 (event 1). Vehicle 2 traveled westerly through the north median area and briefly entered the left, westbound travel lane. Vehicle 2 eventually cross back over the median and entered the eastbound travel lanes. Vehicle 2, while traveling in a southwesterly direction crossed the eastbound travel lanes as Vehicle 1 approached from the west. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the frontal plane (front left area) of Vehicle 1 (event 2). As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1 was redirected in a southeasterly direction, crossed the deceleration lane and came to rest at the south roadside edge of the deceleration lane/ramp. Vehicle 2 was rotated somewhat counterclockwise and eventually traveled in a southerly direction. Vehicle 2 came to rest at the south roadside edge of the deceleration lane, facing a southerly direction. Due to the impact with Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1’s driver’s frontal air bag deployed, as did the driver’s side torso air bag and the left side rail curtain. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle by responding emergency medical services personnel and was transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was also transported, by air unit, to the local trauma center with reportedly non-incapacitating injuries. The driver of Vehicle 3 was reported to be uninjured. Vehicle 1 and 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash, while Vehicle 3 was driven away by its driver.