Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 22-year-old, female driver of a 2008 Toyota Scion TC 2-door hatchback, which was primarily involved in an offset frontal impact, with the frontal plane of a 2012 Chevrolet K2500 large pick-up truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the post mid-night hours (dark) of a late summer weekend, on a curved and graded, two-lane roadway. This roadway runs generally north and south, and has an uphill left turning curve for the northbound travel direction. The roadway has a posted speed limit of 40 mph (64 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2008 Toyota Scion TC 2-door hatchback, was being operated by the 22-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the northbound travel lane. Occupying the right front seating position was a 25-year-old male passenger. Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts. The vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, a driver's knee bolster air bag, seat back mounted side impact air bags (front, outboard), and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the curved section of the roadway and continue traveling north. Vehicle 2, a 2012 Chevrolet K2500 Silverado large pick-up truck, was traveling southbound approaching the crash area from the north. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to negotiate the right turning curve and continue traveling southbound. Crash: As Vehicle 2 traveled southbound, it drifted left at the area of the right turning curve and entered the northbound travel lane. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 1, with noted override, making contact with the top portions of Vehicle 1. As a result of the override, Vehicle 2 subsequently overturned while rotating counterclockwise and came to rest mostly in the northbound travel lane of the roadway. Vehicle 1 was pushed backwards while rotating counterclockwise and struck a guardrail at the east roadside with its left side plane. The collision with the guardrail caused Vehicle 1 to overturn (roll left) and come to rest on its roof, just east of the roadway edge. As a result of the initial impact with Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags and the driver's knee bolster air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The right front male passenger of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, treated and released with minor injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 and the right front passenger were also transported to a local hospital, but the extent of their injuries and treatments, if any, are unknown. Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage.