Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 24-year-old, female driver, of a 2004 Acura TL 4-door sedan, which was involved in a severe, near-side impact, by the frontal plane of a 2002 Ford F-150 pick-up truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the post mid-night hours (dark, street lights present), of a summer weekday, at the intersection of an east/west trafficway and a north/south roadway. The east/west trafficway consists of two travel lanes, for both travel directions, with curb side parking present. A raised concrete median separates the eastbound lanes from the westbound lanes. Both travel directions, leading into the intersection have downhill grades. The north/south roadway consists of one northbound lane and one southbound lane, with curb side parking on both sides of the roadway. The intersection is controlled by overhead, standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals. The speed limit for the east/west trafficway is 25 mph (40 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2004 Acura TL 4-door sedan, was in the curbside parking lane, of the east leg of the intersection (westbound roadway), at the intersection. The driver of Vehicle 1, the belted 24-year-old female driver, intended to make a U-turn at the intersection and continue traveling eastbound. Occupying the right front seating position was a 27-year-old male. Occupying the left, center and right rear seating positions were a 19-year-old male passenger, a 33-year-old male passenger and a 20-year-old male passenger respectively. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with frontal air bags, seat back mounted side torso air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. Vehicle 2, a 2002 Ford F-150 large pick-up truck, was traveling westbound, in the left, westbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the east. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling west. Crash: As Vehicle 1 initiated its U-turn at the intersection, Vehicle 2 entered the intersection and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1. As a result of this impact, Vehicle 1's side torso air bag and left side rail curtain deployed. Vehicle 1 came to rest in the intersection, facing an unknown direction, while Vehicle 2 came to rest at or near the western concrete median. Post-Crash: The occupants of Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were transported, by land units, to a local trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The injuries and treatments, if any, for the other occupants of Vehicle 1, as well as Vehicle 2, are unknown.