Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 24-year-old, female driver, of a 2010 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a near side impact with the frontal plane of a 1995 Ford Escort 4-door hatchback. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours (dusk), of a fall weekday, at the intersection of a north/south roadway and the entrance area to a commercial parking lot. The northern leg of the intersection consists of three southbound travel lanes (a dedicated left turn lane, one through lane and a dedicated right turn lane) and one northbound lane. The southern leg of the intersection consists of three northbound lanes (a dedicated left turn lane, one through lane and a dedicated right turn lane) and two southbound lanes. The parking lot entrance intersects the north/south roadway on the east side and consists of three lanes (one entrance lane and two exit lanes). The western leg of the intersection is a two-lane residential roadway with on-street parking, but did not play a part in the crash. Traffic control signs are posted for both the eastern and western legs of the intersection. The north/south roadway has a speed limit of 45 mph (72 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2010 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 24-year-old female driver (case occupant), in the southbound through lane. She was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with retractor and buckle type pretensioners) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted side hip/torso air bags (front outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 1995 Ford Escort 4-door hatchback, was exiting the parking lot area at the eastern leg of the intersection (westbound). The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling westbound along the two-lane residential roadway. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1). Vehicle 1 was redirected toward the southwest corner of the intersection where it struck a curb with its right front fascia panel, right front wheel (event 2) and right rear wheel (event 3). Vehicle 1 came to rest at the southwest corner of the intersection, while Vehicle 2 came to rest within the intersection at or near the area of impact. As a result of the initial impact, Vehicle 1's left side curtain and the driver's side hip/torso air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was eventually transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with a serious injury. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.