Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 70-year old, female driver, of a 2005 Nissan Altima, who involved in a narrow corner frontal impact with the frontal plane of a 2010 Ford Escape. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred in the late morning hours (daylight) of fall weekday, at the intersection of a north/south trafficway and a multi-lane, east/west roadway. The southbound roadway, as it approaches the intersection from the north, is straight and level and consists of three through lanes and a dedicated left-turn lane. The northbound roadway, as it approaches the intersection from the south is also composed of three through lanes and a dedicated left turn lane. It too is relatively straight and level. Both the north and southbound travel directions have a speed limit of 55 mph (89 km/h). The intersection itself is controlled by overhead, standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2005 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 70-year old female driver (case occupant), in the right, southbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the north. Occupying the right front seating position was a male passenger (unknown age). The driver of Vehicle 1 was noted to be utilizing her 3-point lap/shoulder belt, while the right front passenger was unbelted. The vehicle is noted to be equipped with redesigned frontal air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling south. Vehicle 2, a 2010 Ford Escape, was in the dedicated left-turn lane, of the northbound roadway, at the southern leg of the intersection. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling west. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time, with the driver of Vehicle 1 braking prior to impact. However, this avoidance maneuver was unsuccessful and the front left corner area of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2. Vehicle 1 was redirected to the southwest corner of the intersection, where it came to rest. Due to the impact, Vehicle 2 war rotated counterclockwise and came to rest within the intersection near the southwest corner. As a result of the impact, both frontal air bags for Vehicle 1 deployed. Post-Crash: Both the driver and the right front passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported to local trauma centers and hospitalized, with the driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) sustaining minor to moderate injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to have sustained non-incapacitating injuries and was also transported to a local hospital. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.