This 26-year-old female case occupant (fatality) was the belted driver of a 2009 Honda Fit 4-door hatchback, which was involved in a multi-impact crash. The primary injury-causing event was a moderate, 12 o'clock (350 degree principal direction of force), near side impact with a utility pole (event 2), though there was a subsequent frontal event with the pole's support wire that was considered more severe based upon vehicle damage (event 3). The driver's side torso air bag and side curtain air bag deployed during the second event, while the driver's steering wheel mounted frontal air bag deployed as a result of the third event. The case occupant was sitting in a bucket seat, which was found adjusted to the mid-to-forward seat track position. Her pre-impact posture is thought to be upright, though it may have changed just prior to and after the first event. At the time of the crash, the case occupant was 160 cm (63 inches) in height and weighed 54 kg (120 pounds). During the first impact with the wire fence and wooden fence post (event 1), the case occupant was projected a little forward, in reference to the vehicle, as she likely pre-loaded her seat belt restraint prior to the subsequent impacts. Prior to the second event (near side pole impact), the case occupant is believed to be at or near the left side window glazing, where upon she was partially ejected through the left front window glazing area (glazing shattered by impact) and was struck by the impacted pole. It should be noted that a side torso air bag and side rail curtain likely deployed for this impact, though the actual time of deployment is suspected to have occurred after the case occupant interacted with the impacted utility pole. Upon the subsequent impact with the utility pole's support wire, the case occupant's forward excursion, as well as her lateral excursion, would have likely continued, though this could have been confounded by the force applied by the case occupant's interaction with the pole impact at the left side plane. She rebounded back within her respective seating area, though her post-crash posture is unknown. The case occupant expired at the scene. The case occupant's injuries include a scalp laceration, a brain stem injury, brain stem hemorrhage, a base skull fracture, a vault skull fracture, a pituitary injury, bilateral cheek abrasion(s), a left cheek laceration, a right lip laceration, a left chin abrasion, a left mandible fracture, a left maxilla fracture, a left orbit fracture, a left zygoma fracture and a cervical spine dislocation at C1/C2, all due to certain head/facial contact with the struck utility pole. A left lung contusion was due to certain contact with the interior door panel (rear upper quadrant), while a neck contusion and a chest contusion were due to certain contact with the seat belt webbing. The case occupant also sustained a right arm abrasion and contusion due to possible contact with the frontal air bag fabric, while a left knee abrasion and a left thigh contusion were due to certain contact with the knee bolster panel. Finally, a tongue contusion was likely due to contact with case occupant's own teeth. The maximum Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS) for this case occupant was MAIS 6.