Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 21-year old, right front, female passenger, of a 2009 Subaru Legacy 4-door sedan, who was primarily involved in a near side impact with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during late evening hours (dark), of a fall weekend, on straight and level, northbound roadway. This roadway consists of two travel lanes and forms the northbound travel direction of a north/south trafficway (grass covered median). At the area of the crash, the east roadside has a positive graded embankment and the northbound travel direction has a speed limit of 65 mph (105 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2009 Subaru Legacy 4-door sedan, was being operated by a 27-year old male driver, in the left, northbound travel lane. Occupying the right front seating position was the 21-year old, female passenger (case occupant). Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were noted to be utilizing their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts (with retractor pretensioner). Vehicle 1 is also noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, hip/torso side impact air bags and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 was approaching Vehicle 2 from the back and intended to continue traveling north. Vehicle 2, a 1988 Jaguar XJ6 4-door sedan, was traveling northbound, ahead of Vehicle 1, in the left northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling north. Crash: For unknown reasons, as Vehicle 1 approached Vehicle 2 from the rear, it veered to the right, possibly to pass or to avoid a collision. However, Vehicle 1's front left corner impacted the back right corner area of Vehicle 2 causing a loss of control for both vehicles (event 1). Vehicle 1 departed the roadway at the east roadside edge and eventually struck the embankment with its undercarriage (event 2). Vehicle 1 traveled along and up the embankment and struck a fence (including its post) with its front plane (event 4) and two trees with its right side plane (events 5 and 6), before coming to rest at the area of the tree impacts, facing a northwesterly direction. Vehicle 2 also departed the east roadside edge, while reportedly rotating counter clockwise, and struck the embankment, reportedly, with its back plane (event 3). Vehicle 2 continued to travel along the embankment, while rotating, and finally came to rest along the east roadside edge, facing a southerly direction. The deployment event for Vehicle 1's frontal air bags could not be positively identified, though the deployment of the right side rail curtain and the right front passenger's hip/torso side bag occurred during the tree impacts (events 5 and 6). Post-Crash: The right front passenger of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to critical injuries. Both the driver of Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2, as well as the passenger of Vehicle 2 were reported to have sustained non-incapacitating injuries and were transported, from the scene, by land units, to a local hospital. The extent of their injuries and treatments, if any, are unknown. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.