Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 22-year-old, female driver, of a 2007 Hyundai Accent 2-door hatchback, which was involved in a frontal impact with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the pre-midnight hour (dark), of a summer weekday, on a curved and graded, two-lane roadway. This roadway runs generally east and west and has a left turning curve at the area of the crash. The roadway has a speed limit of 30 mph (72 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry, but was noted to have multiple areas of surface damage. The overall environment is rural, with multiple trees along the edge of the roadway and a water stream/embankment near the impact area. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Hyundai Accent 2-door hatchback, was being operated by the 22-year-old female driver (case occupant), in the westbound travel lane. She was not utilizing an available 3-point lap/shoulder belt, but the vehicle was equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted, side air bags (front outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the curved section of roadway and continue traveling westbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, as Vehicle 1 negotiated the left turning curve it departed the roadway to the right where it subsequently struck a large tree with its frontal plane. Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise as it slid down an embankment leading into the stream. Vehicle 1 came to rest, off the right edge of the roadway, facing a southerly direction, with the rear portions of the vehicle in the stream and its frontal portions at the embankment. As a result of the impact with the tree, the driver's frontal air bag deployed for Vehicle 1. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by both land and air units, to a regional trauma center where she was hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.