Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 66-year-old, female driver of a 2012 Smart Fortwo mini-car (2 door coupe), which was primarily involved in a frontal impact with the right side plane of a 2006 Chrysler Pacifica 4-door wagon. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours (daylight) of a spring weekday, at the intersection of a two-lane, east/west roadway and a two-lane, north/south roadway. The east/way roadway has a right turning curve and a downhill grade for the westbound travel direction as it approaches the intersection from the east. The north/south roadway is level and straight at both sides of the intersection. The east/west roadway has a speed limit of 45 mph (72 km/h), while the north/south roadway has a speed limit of 35 mph (56 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2012 Smart Fortwo 2-door coupe, was being operated by the 66-year-old female driver in the westbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the east. She was restrained by her 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, a driver knee bolster air bag, side hip/torso air bags (outboard) and side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling west. Vehicle 2, a 2006 Chrysler Pacifica 4-door wagon, was traveling north, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling north. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Vehicle 2 was redirected to the northwest corner of the intersection (northern leg of the intersection) as Vehicle 1 was spun clockwise. At this time, the left rear corner area of Vehicle 1 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 2 (event 2) as Vehicle 2 departed the roadway. Vehicle 2 came to rest at the northwest corner of the roadway after striking a guardrail with its frontal plane (event 3). Vehicle 1 came to rest in the northern leg of the intersection. As a result of the first impact (event 1), the driver's frontal air bag, the driver's knee bolster air bag, the driver's side hip/torso and side curtain air bags deployed for Vehicle 1. Post-Crash: Both the driver of Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 reportedly sustained possible injuries, but the extent of their injuries, and treatment, are unknown. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due damage sustained in the crash.