Case Focus: This case focuses on multiple case occupants of a two-vehicle, head-on collision (offset). The first two case occupants are a 45-year-old, female driver and a 14-year-old, right front female passenger, both of a 2009 Honda Civic 4-door sedan. The third case occupant is a 52-year-old female driver of a 2005 Mercedes-Benz C230 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours (dark), of a fall weekday, on a two-lane east/west roadway. At the area of the crash, the roadway is relatively straight; however, the roadway does have a slight left turning curve, for the eastbound travel direction, just prior to the crash area. The roadway itself is level and has a speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was reported to be clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2009 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 45-year-old female driver (case occupant 1), in the eastbound travel lane. Occupying the right front seating position was the 14-year-old female passenger (case occupant 2). Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, side impact hip/torso air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the curved section of roadway and continue traveling eastbound. Vehicle 2, the 2005 Mercedes-Benz C230 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 52-year-old female driver (case occupant 3), in the westbound travel lane. She was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, door-mounted, side impact air bags (at all four locations) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 2 was traveling westbound, approaching the curved section of the roadway, and intended to continue traveling westbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 traveled east, it entered the westbound travel lane and the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 in a head-on type collision (offset). Both vehicles are believed to have rotated counterclockwise an unknown degree and came to rest at or near the area of impact, but their final rest positions and headings are unknown. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed, as did the driver's hip/torso side bag and the left side rail curtain. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 2's driver's frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The drivers of Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2, as well as the right front passenger of Vehicle 1, were removed from their respective vehicles by responding fire/rescue and emergency medical services personnel and transported from the scene, by land unit(s), to a regional trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries, while the 14-year-old, right front, female passenger of Vehicle 1 was hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.