Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 42-year old, male driver, of a 2005 Dodge Caravan, which was involved in a head-on collision with a 1999 Ford Explorer. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the early morning hours (dark) of fall weekday, on a straight, two-lane bituminous roadway. Leading into the area of the crash, the northbound travel direction has a downhill grade, but becomes level at the crash area. The roadway has a speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2005 Dodge Caravan minivan, was being operated by a 42-year old male driver (case occupant) in the southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was noted to be utilizing his 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with buckle type pretensioner) and the vehicle is equipped with certified advanced frontal air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 1999 Ford Explorer 2-door utility vehicle, was traveling in the northbound travel lane, approaching the crash area from the south. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling north. Crash: As Vehicle 2 traveled north, an animal (dog) entered the roadway. The driver of Vehicle 2 began to brake and steer right, but was unsuccessful. Vehicle 2's frontal plane struck the animal as the vehicle traveled toward the east roadway edge. The driver of Vehicle 2 swerved left and re-entered the travel lanes crossing into the southbound travel direction as Vehicle 1 approached from the north. At this time, the driver of Vehicle 2 attempted to steer right, but was unsuccesful. The frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 in a head-on type collision. Both vehicles rotated counterclockwise, with Vehicle 1 coming to rest off the west roadway edge, facing a northeasterly direction, while Vehicle 2 came to rest straddling the southbound roadway line, facing a westerly direction. Due to the head-on impact, the driver's frontal and knee bolster air bags deployed for Vehicle 1. Post-Crash: Both drivers were removed from their respective vehicles by responding emergency medical services personnel and transported, by air units, to a local hospital and then to a regional trauma center. Both drivers were hospitalized, with the driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) sustaining minor to serious injuries. Both vehicles had to be towed due to damage sustained in the crash.