Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 25-year old, female driver, of a 2007 Honda Fit 4-door hatchback, which was primarily involved in a near side collision, with the frontal plane of a 2007 Toyota Solara 2-door coupe. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight), of a winter weekday, at the intersection of a north/south residential roadway and an east/west trafficway. The northern leg of the intersection is composed of one southbound travel lane (one-way direction), while the westbound roadway, at the eastern leg of the intersection, is composed of three travel lanes. The westbound travel lanes are separated from the eastbound travel lanes by a curbed median. Both the southbound residential roadway and the westbound roadway are straight and level leading into the intersection. The east/west trafficway has a speed limit of 35 mph (56 km/h), while the southbound residential roadway has a speed limit of 25 mph (40 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Honda Fit 4-door hatchback, was being operated by the 25-year old female driver (case occupant), in the southbound residential roadway, at the northern leg of the intersection. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted, side torso air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling eastbound. Vehicle 2, a 2007 Toyota Solara 2-door coupe was traveling westbound, in the center westbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the east. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling west. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1). Vehicle 1 and 2 were redirected toward the tip of the western median during which the left side plane of Vehicle 1 contacted the right side plane of Vehicle 2 (event 2 / minor scraping). Vehicle 1 struck the curbed median with its frontal plane (below bumper / lower grill frame area) and came to rest at the median, facing a southwesterly direction. Vehicle 2 came to rest within the intersection, near the median, facing a southwesterly direction. As a result of the initial left side impact (event 1), the driver's side torso air bag and left side rail curtain air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reportedly uninjured. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.