Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 30-year old, female driver, of a 2010 Honda Fit 4-door hatchback, which was involved in a narrow corner, frontal impact, with the frontal plane of a 2005 Toyota 4Runner compact utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the post-midnight hours (dark, street lights present), of a winter weekend, on a slightly graded and curved, two-lane residential roadway. This roadway runs generally north and south and has a positively graded, right turning curve for the southbound travel direction. Bordering the travel lanes are paved shoulders, which are used for on-street parking. The roadway has a speed limit of 30 mph (48 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2010 Honda Fit 4-door hatchback, was being operated by the 30-year old female driver (case occupant), southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted side torso air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the right turning curve and continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, an unoccupied 2005 Toyota 4Runner compact utility vehicle, was parked at the east paved shoulder area, facing a northerly direction. Crash: As Vehicle 1 traveled south, it drifted left and across the northbound travel and departed the roadway at the east shoulder area. At this time, Vehicle 1's front left corner struck the front left corner of Vehicle 2. Vehicle 2 was pushed backwards and somewhat off the east edge of the road as Vehicle 1 came to rest at the east shoulder area. As a result of the impact, the driver's frontal air bag, seat back mounted side torso air bag and roof side rail curtain deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 initially reported to be uninjured and did not seek treatment (no initial transport made). However, several hours later, the driver of Vehicle 1 did seek treatment at a local hospital and was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospital with moderate and serious injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.