Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 71-year-old male driver of a 2009 Nissan 370z 2-door coupe, which was primarily involved in a near side collision with the frontal plane of a 2011 Hyundai Santa Fe compact utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the late morning hours (daylight), of a fall weekday, at the intersection of a north/south trafficway and an east/west roadway. The northbound roadway is composed of four travel lanes (two through lanes, a left turn lane and a right turn lane). The northbound roadway is level, but has a left turning curve leading into and beyond the intersection. The east/west roadway is composed of two travel lanes (one eastbound and one westbound). The eastern leg of the intersection is straight with a slight uphill grade just at and leading into the intersection for the westbound travel direction. The westbound travel direction has a speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h), while the northbound roadway has a speed limit of 55 mph (89 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was reportedly clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2009 Nissan 370z 2-door coupe, was being operated by the 71-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the westbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the east. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by a 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted, hip/torso side air bags and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling west. Vehicle 2, a 2011 Hyundai Santa Fe compact utility vehicle, was traveling in the right northbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling northbound. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1, in a "t-bone" type configuration (event 1). Both vehicles were redirected toward the grass median north of the intersection. Vehicle 1, while rotating counterclockwise out of the impact, slid across the tip of the median and struck a sign post with its right side plane (event 2). Vehicle 1 continued to slide across the southbound travel lanes, while rotating counterclockwise and came to rest, just off the west side of the southbound roadway, facing a northerly direction. Vehicle 2 departed the roadway at the north median and struck a light support pole with its frontal plane before coming to rest against the pole, facing northwesterly direction (event 3). As a result of the first impact (event 1), Vehicle 1's side rail curtain and driver's side hip/torso air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. The driver and right front passenger of Vehicle 2 were reported to have sustained non-incapacitating injuries and were transported, by land unit, to a local hospital. The extent of their injuries and treatments, if any, are unknown. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.