Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 71-year old, female driver, of a 2007 Dodge Grand Caravan minivan, which was primarily involved in a narrow corner, frontal collision, with the right side plane of a 2001 Chevrolet Silverado (C1500) pick-up truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the late morning hours (daylight), of a spring weekday, at the intersection of two rural roadways. Both the north/south roadway and the east/west roadway are straight and level and consist of two travel lanes (one for each direction). Access into and through the intersection for the north/south roadway is controlled by stop signs. The northbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the south and the eastbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the west, both have a speed limit of 35 mph (56 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Dodge Grand Caravan minivan, was being operated by the 71-year old female driver (case occupant), in the northbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags and a driver's knee bolster air bag. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling north. Vehicle 2, a 2001 Chevrolet Silverado (C1500) pick-up truck, was traveling east, approaching the intersection from the west. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling east. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection and the frontal plane (front left corner) of Vehicle 1 struck the right side plane (right front corner) of Vehicle 2. Both vehicles were likely redirected somewhat to the northeast corner of the intersection and subsequently struck again, with the left side plane of Vehicle 1 side swiping the right side plane of Vehicle 2. Both vehicles are believed to have come to rest in the intersection, at the northeast corner, facing a northeasterly direction. As a result of the initial frontal impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal and knee bolster air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital. The extent of his injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.