Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 72-year old, female driver, of a 2010 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, which was involved in a frontal collision with the right side plane of a 2000 Mercury Sable 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the mid-day hour (daylight), of a spring weekday, on a straight, two-lane east/west roadway. The roadway is level, with a paved shoulder bordering either travel lane, and has speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h). The overall environment is rural and at the time of the crash the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2010 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 72-year old female driver (case occupant), in the eastbound travel lane. Occupying the right front seating position was a 72-year old male passenger. Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were noted to be restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, a driver's knee bolster air bag, seat back mounted side air bags (front outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling eastbound. Vehicle 2, a 2000 Mercury Sable 4-door sedan, was traveling westbound and the driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling west. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 2 drifted right and onto the westbound shoulder area. Based upon scene evidence, the driver of Vehicle 2 appears to have initiated a right steering maneuver, but over-steered, placing Vehicle 2 in a right side leading yaw. As Vehicle 1 approached from the east, Vehicle 2 crossed back and over the westbound travel lane and into the eastbound lane/shoulder area. The driver of Vehicle 1, seeing the approach of Vehicle 2, braked and steered right, but was unsuccessful in avoiding a collision. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 2 in the eastbound shoulder area of the roadway. Vehicle 1 came to rest in the eastbound shoulder area, facing a southeasterly direction. Vehicle 2 rotated clockwise out of the impact and struck a utility junction box/telephone pole with its back plane prior to final rest, facing a northerly direction. As a result of the frontal impact, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed, as did the driver's knee bolster air bag. Post-Crash: The driver and passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported, by land unit, to a local hospital. The right front passenger of Vehicle 1 was treated and released, but the driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver and two passengers of Vehicle 2 were all transported, by air units, to regional trauma centers. The extent of their injuries, and treatments, are unknown. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.