Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 73-year-old male driver and a 74-year-old right rear female passenger of a 2011 Chevrolet Equinox utility vehicle, which was involved in a narrow corner frontal impact with a tree, with a subsequent one-quarter turn rollover. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the pre-midnight hours (dark), of a spring weekend, on a curved two-lane roadway. This rural roadway runs generally east and west and has a right turning curve for the westbound travel direction. The roadway itself is relatively level, with no shoulders and trees bordering either side. The roadway has a speed limit of 25 mph (40 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2011 Chevrolet Equinox utility vehicle, was being operated by the 73-year-old male driver (case occupant 1) in the westbound travel lane. Occupying the right rear seating position was the 74-year-old female passenger (case occupant 2). Both occupants were restrained by their respective 3-point, lap/shoulder belts. The vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, hip/torso side air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the right turning curve and continue traveling westbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 drifted left and across the eastbound travel lane and then departed the roadway on the left. Vehicle 1 subsequently struck a tree (combination of two trees - one small, one large in tandem) with its front left corner area (narrow corner engagement pattern / event 1). At this time, Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise and rolled over one-quarter turn (event 2), coming to rest in the roadway on its right side plane, facing a southeasterly direction. As a result of the initial frontal impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed. As a result of the rollover event, Vehicle 1's side rail curtains deployed as did the right front hip/torso side air bag. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was reportedly found in the first row seating area, while still restrained. The right rear passenger was found lying up against the right rear door panel and window glazing areas. Fire/Rescue personnel subsequently cut away the windshield and portions of the roof structure and removed both occupants of Vehicle 1. The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital and initially hospitalized. He was eventually released after several days, but was re-hospitalized at a regional trauma center for another two days with minor to serious injuries. The right rear female passenger of Vehicle 2 was transported, by both land and air units, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.