Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 70-year-old female driver of a 2012 Toyota Prius 4-door hatchback, which was involved in a narrow corner, frontal impact, with the frontal plane of a 2003 Jeep Grand Cherokee utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) of a spring weekday, on a four lane north/south roadway, within a rural area. The southbound travel direction is mostly straight, but has a positive uphill graded right turning curve leading into the crash area. The speed limit for this section of roadway is 55 mph (89 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2012 Toyota Prius 4-door hatchback, was being operated by the 70-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the main southbound travel lane. Occupying the right front seating position was a 43-year-old male passenger. Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, a driver's knee bolster air bag, seat back mounted side air bags (front outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 2003 Jeep Grand Cherokee utility vehicle, was traveling northbound in the main northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 was in the process of negotiating the negatively graded and curved section of the roadway. Crash: Due to a preceding medical condition for the driver, Vehicle 1 drifted left and into the northbound travel lanes. The driver of Vehicle 2, seeing the approach of Vehicle 1, steered right; however, the front left corner of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Both vehicles rotated counterclockwise out of the impact and came to rest in the northbound travel lanes. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed as did the driver's knee bolster air bag. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital and hospitalized for a day before being transferred to a regional trauma center and being hospitalized an additional six days with minor to serious injuries. The right front passenger of Vehicle 1 was transported, treated and released. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to have sustained non-incapacitating injuries, but the extent of their injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.