Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a restrained 60-year-old, female driver of a 2003 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a frontal collision with a utility pole. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight), of a spring weekday, in the westbound travel lane, of a two-lane, east/west roadway. This roadway is straight, with a negative downhill grade for the westbound travel direction. The speed limit for this section of roadway is 40 mph (64 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2003 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 60-year-old female driver (case occupant), in the westbound travel lane, approaching the crash area from the east. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with second generation frontal air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling westbound. Vehicle 2, a 1996 Toyota Tercel 2-door coupe, was stopped in the westbound travel lane, waiting to turn left into a parking lot area of a commercial business. Crash: As Vehicle 1 approached from the east, the driver of Vehicle 1 became aware of the stopped Vehicle 2. The driver of Vehicle 1 steered right, but was unsuccessful in avoiding a collision. The front left corner of Vehicle 1 struck the back right corner of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Vehicle 1 departed the north side of the roadway and traveled along the paved shoulder area. At this time, the right side plane of Vehicle 1 struck a mail box (event 2). Vehicle 1 continued on and eventually struck a curb with its right front wheel/rim (event 3) and then a utility pole (30 cm wood pole) with its frontal plane (event 4). At this time, Vehicle 1 pivoted/rotated slightly counterclockwise and struck a roadside sign with its right side plane (event 5), before coming to rest facing a westerly direction. Vehicle 2 came to rest in the roadway, facing a westerly direction. As a result of the frontal impact with the utility pole, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash, while Vehicle 2 was driven away from the scene by its driver.