Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 43-year-old female driver of a 2007 Dodge Caliber 4-door hatchback, which was primarily involved in a rollover event. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the late morning hours (daylight), of a winter weekday, on a curved and graded three lane roadway (includes a T-type intersection area). This east/west roadway consists of three travel lanes at the western leg of the intersection (intersecting roadway on the north side only). The eastbound travel direction, approaching the intersection, consists of one eastbound through lane and a dedicated left turn lane. The intersection itself is controlled by overhead, standard electric tri-colored traffic signals. The eastbound travel direction has an uphill grade and left turning curve that leads into and beyond the intersection, with a speed limit of 40 mph (64 km/h). While the intersection is present, it was not considered to be relevant to the crash itself. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Dodge Caliber 4-door hatchback, was being operated by the 43-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the eastbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the west. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, a driver's knee bolster air bag and roof side rail curtains. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 entered the intersection and then departed the south edge of the roadway at the intersection. At this time, Vehicle 1 struck/encountered a positively graded embankment with its right front wheel/undercarriage area (event 1). Vehicle 1 initially started to climb the embankment, but eventually rolled right about its longitudinal axis (event 2). Vehicle 1 continued to roll (approximately 10 quarter turns) in a southeasterly direction where it struck a wooden fence (minor damage), with an unknown plane (event 3), before coming to rest, on its roof, facing a northerly direction. Although considerably damaged, there were no air bag deployments for Vehicle 1. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was extricated from the vehicle and transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.