Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 49-year old, male driver, of a 2008 Toyota Yaris 4-door sedan, which was involved in a frontal collision with the frontal plane of a 2012 Honda CRV compact utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight), of a winter weekday, at the intersection of a three lane, north/south roadway and an east/west traffic way. The north/south roadway consists of two northbound lanes (dedicated left turn lanes) and a south bound lane. This roadway intersects the east/west trafficway on the south side, at an obtuse angle. The eastbound travel direction of the east/west trafficway consists of three travel lanes (two eastbound through lanes and a dedicated left turn lane) separated from the westbound lanes by a curbed concrete median. Both roadways are relatively level and straight leading into the intersection, but the eastbound travel direction starts to curve left at and through the intersection. The intersection itself is controlled by overhead, standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals. The speed limit for both the north/south roadway and the eastbound roadway is 35 mph (56 km/h). At the time of the crash, it was raining and the roadway surfaces were wet. Vehicle 1, the 2008 Toyota Yaris 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 49-year old male driver (case occupant), in the right eastbound through lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was not restrained, but the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling east. Vehicle 2, a 2012 Honda CRV compact utility vehicle, was in the right, northbound left turn lane, at the southern leg of the intersection. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling west. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time, and the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2. Vehicle 1 continued to travel east as Vehicle 2 pivoted clockwise. Vehicle 1's right side plane subsequently sideswiped the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 as it moved forward to its final rest. Vehicle 1 is believed to have come to rest at or near the eastern leg of the intersection, in the eastbound travel lanes, while Vehicle 2 is believed to have come to rest at or near the southeast corner of the intersection facing a northeasterly direction. As a result of the initial impact with Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 self-extricated and was eventually transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver of and passenger of Vehicle 2 were transported to a local hospital with reported possible injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.