Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 57-year old, right front, female passenger, of a 2009 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a frontal collision with the back plane of a 2003 Ford Explorer utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) of a two-lane roadway at or near the junction area of a traffic circle. This straight and level, two-lane roadway, at the crash area, runs east and west and intersects the traffic circle on the west side. This east/west roadway has paved shoulders and concrete walls on the north and south sides (concrete wall part of an overpass structure just west and above the traffic circle), with guardrails being present at the traffic circle area. The traffic circle itself is composed of one travel lane and has intersecting roadways at the south side, the north side and the west side (mentioned above). Traffic entering the circle is controlled by yield signs and overhead, electric traffic signals (solid red or flashing yellow). The east/west roadway is relatively straight and level, with a speed limit of 45 mph (72 km/h), which is the speed limit indicated for the traffic entering and exiting the traffic circle as well. At the time of the crash, it was raining and the roadway surfaces were wet. Vehicle 1, the 2009 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, was being operated by a 57-year old male driver, in the eastbound travel lane, approaching the traffic circle from the west. Occupying the right front seating position was the 57-year old female passenger (case occupant). Both the driver and passenger of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point, lap/shoulder belts (with retractor type pretensioners). Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with frontal air bags, seat back mounted hip/torso side air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling east and enter the traffic circle at the west side. Vehicle 2, a 2003 Ford Explorer, had entered the traffic circle at the south side and was in the process of exiting the traffic circle at the west side in order to continue traveling west. Crash: As Vehicle 2 exited the traffic circle at the west side, it began to slide counterclockwise Vehicle 1 approached from the east. Vehicle 2 slid into the eastbound travel lane while still rotating counterclockwise and was struck in the back plane by the frontal plane of Vehicle 1. Vehicle 2 continued to rotate counterclockwise and the back plane of Vehicle 2 (back left corner area) contacted the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 2). At this time, Vehicle 1 was either redirected or steered or both, to the right. Vehicle 1 departed the south side of the roadway and struck the guardrail with its front right corner area (event 3). Vehicle 1 came to rest up against the guardrail, facing a slight southeasterly direction, while Vehicle 2 came to rest in the eastbound travel lane, facing a northwesterly direction. As a result of the first impact, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed. It could not be determined if the driver's side hip/torso air bag and side rail curtain deployed during the frontal impact or the subsequent left side impact. Post-Crash: The driver and passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported, by land unit, to a local hospital. Both were treated and released, but the 57-year old, right front female passenger (case occupant) of Vehicle 1 subsequently returned with abdominal pain and was transferred to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver and passenger of Vehicle 2 were reported to be uninjured. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.