Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 45-year old, male driver, of a 2005 Dodge Caravan minivan, which was primarily involved in an off-set frontal collision, with the frontal plane of a 2006 Ford F-150 pick-up truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during post-midnight hours (dark, street lights present), of a late winter weekend, at the intersection area of a four lane roadway and the entrance to a mall parking lot (intersection itself did not play a part in the crash). This four-lane roadway runs generally east and west and consists of two westbound lanes and two eastbound lanes. The roadway is level, but has a left-turning curve for the eastbound travel direction. The roadway is intersected on the north side by the entrance area to a mall parking lot. The east/west roadway has a speed limit of 25 mph (40 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2005 Dodge Caravan minivan, was being operated by the 45-year old male driver (case occupant), in the left, eastbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the west. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags and a driver's deployable knee bolster panel. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the left turning curve and continue traveling east. Vehicle 2, a 2006 Ford F-150 pick-up truck was traveling westbound in the right westbound travel lane, approaching the intersection area from the east. Directly in front of Vehicle 2 was a non-contacted vehicle traveling westbound. The driver of Vehicle 2 was in the process of passing the non-contacted vehicle on the left while negotiating the right turning curve. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling west. Crash: As Vehicle 2 passed the non-contacted vehicle, it drifted left and partially entered the left eastbound travel lane, heading west. The driver of Vehicle 1, seeing the approach of Vehicle 2, swerved left in order to avoid a collision and entered the left westbound travel lane. At this time, the driver of Vehicle 2 steered back into the westbound travel lane and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 in an offset fashion. As a result, Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise and rolled one quarter turn onto its left side plane before coming to rest within the intersection area. Vehicle 2 is believed to have rotated clockwise as well, but to an unknown degree. Vehicle 2 came to rest within the intersection as well. As a result of the initial frontal impact, the driver's frontal air bag and the deployable knee bolster panel air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle and transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospital with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reportedly uninjured and was not transported from the scene. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.