Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 41-year-old female driver of a 2007 Toyota Camry Solara 2-door convertible, which was involved in a narrow corner, frontal impact, with the rear plane of a 2005 Peterbilt 379 series heavy/medium truck (dump truck). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the post mid-night hours (dark), of a summer weekday, on a two-lane, north bound roadway. This roadway forms the northbound travel direction of a north/south trafficway. At the area of the crash, the northbound roadway is straight with a slight uphill grade. At the time of the crash, the left northbound lane was closed due to construction (road surface paving). The speed limit for this section of roadway is 50 mph (80 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Toyota Camry Solara 2-door convertible, was being operated by the 41-year-old female driver (case occupant). Vehicle 1 entered the closed, left northbound travel lane at a cross-over area. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags and seat back mounted side air bags (front outboard positions). The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling northbound. Vehicle 2, a 2005 Peterbilt 379 series heavy/medium truck (dump truck configuration), was parked in the left, northbound lane (closed to traffic due to paving operations). The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to keep his vehicle in a parked position. Crash: Vehicle 1 entered the left northbound travel lane at a cross over area and started traveling north. The driver of Vehicle 1, seeing the parked Vehicle 2, steered right in order to avoid a collision but was unsuccessful. Vehicle 1's frontal plane struck the back plane of Vehicle 2 in a front left narrow corner engagement with under ride. Vehicle 1 eventually came to rest in the right northbound travel lane. Vehicle 2 came to rest at or near its initial impact position. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was also transported, by land unit, to a local hospital with minor injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. Vehicle 2 was reported to have functional damage, but was not towed from the scene.