This frontal impact crash case involves a 40 year old female driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, with a frontal air bag deployment who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred in an intersection during daylight hours, under clear weather and dry roadway conditions. The case vehicle one (V1), a 2013 Mini Cooper two door convertible, was traveling north on a two lane, two way, undivided roadway and was approaching an intersecting street. There are no traffic controls for north/southbound vehicles, but a stop sign is posted for vehicles traveling east on the intersecting roadway. The driver of V1 intended to make a left turn at the intersection. Vehicle 2 (V2), a 2005 Lexus RX330 four door compact utility vehicle, was traveling east on the intersecting street, and was approaching the intersection, intending to turn right and travel south. V1 made a left turn as V2 entered the intersection, and the front of V1 impacted the front of V2, resulting in the deployment of V1's driver's air bag. V1 rotated counterclockwise, traveled a short distance south of the intersection. V1 came to final rest facing southwest, near the west curb in the southbound lane. After the initial impact, V2 traveled a short distance south and departed the roadway onto the sidewalk. V2 traveled over the sidewalk and grassy area and then the front of V2 impacted a wood fence. V2 came to final rest inside the fenced area, facing southwest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant in V1 is a 40 year old female driver who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. Her seat belt buckle pretensioner actuated and her steering column mounted frontal air bag deployed during the collision. The case occupant sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. There were two passengers in V1's second row. There was a 12 year old female second row left side passenger, who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt and who sustained visible injuries and a 3 year old female second row right side passenger, who was restrained in an unknown type of child safety seat. She was not injured in the crash.