The case occupant is a 35 year old female driver who was involved in a moderate near side impact. This driver was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt with a frontal air bag deployment and she sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred during daylight hours, under clear weather and wet roadway conditions. In the area where the impacts took place, the roadway is comprised of one north and one southbound asphalt travel lane, with a center left-turn only lane present at the intersection just north of this location. Adjacent to the northbound lane is a curb, followed by a narrow grass strip and a wide sidewalk. Closer to the intersecting street, there are three metal fold-down posts located on the sidewalk, blocking vehicles from driving onto it. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Chrysler 300 four door sedan, was traveling north in the northbound lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 GMC Sierra K1500 large pickup, was traveling south in the southbound lane. In V2's precrash location there are five travel lanes; two northbound, one southbound, one right turn only and one left turn only lane. V2 was crossing through the intersection when the pickup began to drift to the left, then entered V1's lane of travel. The driver of V1 steered right but the front of V2 impacted the left side of V1, resulting in the actuation of V1's driver's seat belt retractor pretensioner and the deployment of her frontal air bag. The force of the impact sheared off V1's left front door hinges, and as a result, the door came off of the vehicle during the crash sequence. V1 rotated counterclockwise and its right sill impacted the curb, resulting in minor damage. V1 continued to rotate counterclockwise and then its right side struck the westernmost fold-down post, causing it to collapse and resulting in minor vehicle damage. V1 came to final rest facing southwest with the front half on the roadway and the back half on the sidewalk and grass strip. After the initial impact, V2 continued a short distance south and departed the east side of the roadway, coming to final rest facing southeast. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant in V1 is the 35 year old female driver who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. The driver's seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and her frontal steering column mounted air bag deployed. She sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. There were no other occupants in V1.