This crash involved a driver in a moderate severity frontal off road collision. The case occupant is the 56 year old male driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt with a frontal airbag deployment and who sustained severe injuries. This crash occurred at night in a dark area of a three lane, two-way highway with clear, dry conditions. Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Ford F150 pickup truck was northbound on this highway in the single downhill lane that curved to the right. There were two southbound lanes with a guard rail bordering the west side of the road through the curve. V1 drifted to the left in the curve and crossed over both southbound lanes. V1 then departed the roadway to the left and the front right corner just swiped (minor event) the end of the guard rail that was bordering the curve. V1 then travelled down an embankment where the whole front impacted some shrubs (minor event). V1 continued down the slope and the front left corner impacted a tree that slapped down and impacted the roof. V1 continued a short distance and the whole front of V1 impacted a large tree trunk that had previously fallen and was lying across the ground. V1 came to final rest against this fallen tree trunk. When V1 was towed, a cable was hooked to the back right axle to pull V1 back up the slope. During this towing attempt, V1's right rear side impacted a tree stump that also broke off V1's right axle and tire. The cable was secured again and was able to pull V1 up to the roadway to be towed. V1 was damaged and disabled due to the crash events. The driver of V1 is the case occupant who was a 56 year old male, wearing the manual lap/shoulder belt. The belt pretensioners actuated on impact and the frontal steering column airbag deployed. On scene he refused treatment and transport to a medical facility. The next day he experienced symptoms that required him to seek treatment at a local hospital that then transferred him to the trauma center where he was hospitalized for nine days for severe injuries.