This moderately severe near side impact crash involved a 29 year old male who was restrained with the lap/shoulder belt, and the frontal steering column mounted airbag, the seatback mounted side airbag, and left roof rail side airbag all deployed. This off road freeway crash into objects occurred during clear, daylight conditions with a dry roadway surface. Vehicle one (V1), a 2011 Subaru Impreza four door sedan was westbound in lane one of two one-way lanes of a divided freeway. There was a paved shoulder lane on the north side, and travel lanes began to curve to the left at the location of the roadway departure. Off the north edge of the roadway was a gradually sloping grassy area that at the time of the crash was covered with deep snow. In this area was a large utility pole along with a series of trees. As V1 approached the curve to the left, it continued straight crossing over the paved shoulder and departed the roadway to the right. The front of V1 first had a minor impact with a metal marker post. V1 continued down the snow covered gradual slope and began to rotate slightly clockwise when the left front side of V1 impacted a large utility pole that was the highest delta V event. V1 then continued a short distance and had minor impacts into a series of trees. The front of V1 impacted two trees that became uprooted. This impact caused V1 to rotate counterclockwise and V1 contacted two additional smaller trees on the right front and right back, and then finally swiped the back bumper into another tree. V1 continued to rotate and came to final rest beyond the tree grove facing east. V1 was towed due to damage. The driver of V1 is the case occupant with no other passengers. He is a 29 year old male who was using the lap/shoulder belt and the retractor pretensioner actuated on impact into the utility pole. The steering column mounted, the seatback mounted and the left roof side rail mounted airbags all deployed on impact into the utility pole. This driver sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center.