This two vehicle crash involves two case occupants in the same vehicle. The first case occupant is a 67 year old male driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, involved in a moderate frontal collision with frontal, side and curtain air bag deployments. He sustained moderate severity injuries in the crash. The second case occupant is a 65 year old female front right passenger who was wearing the manual lap/shoulder belt with a frontal air bag deployment. She sustained serious injuries. Both case occupants were hospitalized at the trauma center. This crash occurred during daylight hours in a curve on a two lane, two way roadway. At the time of the crash, there were overcast weather conditions and dry travel lanes. In the general area, the asphalt lanes are level and curve to the right for eastbound vehicles. On the north side of the travel lanes, there is a narrow paved strip, followed by an area of dirt and gravel. On the south side of the roadway, there is a paved shoulder present, followed by a grassy ditch. Vehicle one (V1), a 2011 Ford Fusion four door sedan, was eastbound traveling through the curve. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Dodge Durango, was traveling west in the westbound lane. As V2 negotiated the curve, it departed the roadway to the right, leaving track marks from the right tires on the dirt and gravel area bordering the paved strip. V2 then returned to the roadway, began to rotate counterclockwise across the westbound lane and traveled into the eastbound lane and into V1's path. The front of V1 then impacted the right side of V2. V2 then rolled partially to the right onto the hood and front roof area of V1. V1 was overpowered, and pushed rearward by V2, and then V1 rotated clockwise and the vehicles separated. V2 continued to roll four quarter turns and departed the roadway into the ditch. V2 came to final rest on its tires, in the ditch facing southeast. V1 came to final rest facing west on the south paved shoulder. Both vehicles were disabled and were towed from the scene. The first case occupant in V1 is the 67 year old male driver who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and his steering column mounted frontal, seat back mounted side and roof side rail mounted air bags all deployed. He sustained multiple moderate severity injuries and was transported to an outside hospital prior to being transferred to the trauma center. The second case occupant is the 65 year old female front right passenger who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. Her seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and her instrument panel mounted frontal airbag deployed. She sustained serious injuries, was also taken to an outside hospital, and was later transported to the trauma center.