This severe frontal head-on crash involved three case occupants in the same vehicle, a 45 year old male driver, a 35 year old front right passenger, and an 11 year old male in the second row right position. All were wearing a manual lap/shoulder belts. The driver had a frontal steering column, side seatback, knee bolster, and left side roof rail curtain air bags deploy in his position. The front right occupant had the instrument panel and right side roof rail curtain airbags deploy in her position. The second row right passenger had the roof side curtain airbags deploy in his position. The case driver sustained moderate severity injuries. The front right passenger sustained severe injuries. The second row right passenger sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred in a curve on a two way, two lane highway with paved shoulders with guard rail bordering the west side. It was daylight, and the weather was clear, but the roadway surface was wet. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2013 Toyota Prius four door hatch back, was in the southbound lane negotiating the curve to the left. Vehicle two (V2), a 2007 GMC pickup was in the northbound lane and was negotiating the curve to the right. There were non-contact vehicles stopped for traffic just ahead of V2. As V2 negotiated the curve it came upon the stopped vehicles. The driver of V2 steered left, crossed the center lane lines and entered into the southbound lane. V1 tried to brake and moved to the right partially on the shoulder, but the front of V1 impacted the front of V2. V2 overpowered V1 and forced it rearward to final rest facing south on the shoulder. V2 post impact went to the left and the front left impacted the guard rail and came to final rest facing northwest. Both vehicles were towed and disabled. Case vehicle one had three case occupants that were all injured. The driver, a 45 year old male, was wearing the manual lap/shoulder belt. The belt pretensioners actuated and a frontal steering column mounted, a knee bolster mounted, a side seatback mounted, and the left roof side curtain airbags all deployed. He sustained moderate severity injuries and was transported to a local hospital. The second case occupant was the front right passenger, a 35 year old female, who was wearing a manual lap/shoulder belt. The belt pretensioner actuated and the frontal instrument panel mounted and the roof side rail curtain airbags deployed in her position. She was airlifted to the trauma center with severe injuries. The third case occupant was an 11 year old male who was seated in the second row right seat. He was wearing the manual lap/shoulder belt and the roof side curtain airbag deployed in his position. He sustained serious injuries and was also airlifted to the trauma center.