The case occupant is a 22 year old male driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, who was involved in a severe frontal impact. The case occupant's frontal impact air bag deployed and he sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred during daylight hours under clear weather and dry roadway conditions. The east/west asphalt roadway consists of two west and two eastbound travel lanes, with a right curve and downhill grade for westbound vehicles. There is a curb present on the south side of the roadway, followed by a wide sidewalk. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2011 Nissan Sentra four door sedan, was traveling west in the outside westbound lane and Vehicle 2 (V2), a 2013 Subaru Outback station wagon, was traveling east in the inside eastbound lane. As both vehicles were negotiating the curve, V1 departed its lane to the left, crossed over the inside westbound lane and traveled into V2's lane of travel. The front of V1 impacted the front of V2, resulting in the actuation of V1's driver seat belt retractor pretensioner and the deployment of the driver's frontal air bag. V1 continued traveling in a westerly direction and departed the roadway to the left. As V1 left the roadway, its front undercarriage scraped on the south curb, resulting in minor damage. V1 traveled a short distance and came to final rest across the sidewalk, facing southwest. After the initial impact between V1 and V2, V2 was overpowered and was pushed west as it rotated clockwise. V2 came to final rest across the eastbound lanes, facing northwest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant in V1 is a 22 year old male driver who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and his frontal steering column mounted air bag deployed during the crash. The case occupant sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center where he was hospitalized for forty-seven days. No other occupants were in V1. The driver and sole occupant of V2 was also injured in the crash, but his treatment status is unknown.