This near-side impact crash case involves a 68 year old female driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt with deployed frontal and side curtain air bags. She sustained severe injuries and was hospitalized for ten days. This crash occurred in a four legged intersection during evening hours in darkness with overhead street lights. There were clear weather conditions and dry roadways. The intersection is comprised of one west and one eastbound asphalt travel lane, with no traffic controls present. The intersecting north/south asphalt roadway is comprised of one north and one southbound lane, with stop signs posted at the intersection. The case vehicle one (V1), a 2012 Toyota Corolla four door sedan, was traveling west in the westbound lane and Vehicle 2 (V2), a 2002 Jeep Cherokee compact utility vehicle, was traveling north on the intersecting street. Both vehicles entered the intersection and the front of V2 impacted the left side of V1, resulting in the actuation of V1's driver's seat belt retractor pretensioner and the deployment of V1's driver frontal and left curtain air bags. Both vehicles were redirected by the impact and V1's left rear impacted V2's right rear, resulting in minor damage. V1 continued in a northwesterly direction and departed the roadway. V1's front left impacted a wood utility pole, resulting in minor damage. V1 came to final rest near the pole, facing northwest. After the second crash event, V2 continued traveling in a southwesterly direction and went off the southwest corner of the intersection. Then the front of V2 impacted a chain link fence before V2 came to final rest, facing southwest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant is the 68 year old female driver of V1 who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. During the first crash event, this case occupant's seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and her steering column mounted frontal and left roof side rail mounted curtain air bags deployed. She sustained severe injuries and was transported to the trauma center where she was hospitalized for ten days. There were no other occupants in the vehicle. The driver of V2 was also injured and was transported to a local hospital by a family member.