This four vehicle crash involves a case occupant who is a 65 year old male driver, involved in two frontal sideswipe type collisions, followed by a head-on crash with a third vehicle. He was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt and the frontal impact air bag deployed during the crash. He sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred around dusk under wet and rainy weather conditions. The roadway consists of three east and three westbound lanes with a center left turn only lane present. In the crash location the roadway is straight and level and is comprised of asphalt. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2013 Jeep Patriot compact utility vehicle, was westbound in the inside westbound travel lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Mercury Milan four door sedan, was traveling east in the inside eastbound lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 2006 Jeep Liberty compact utility vehicle, was traveling east a short distance behind V2. Vehicle four (V4), a 2010 Toyota 4Runner compact utility vehicle, was traveling east a short distance behind V3. The driver of V1 started to have a seizure, and V1 began to drift to the left. V1 crossed over the center turn lane and traveled into the eastbound travel lanes. The front left of V1 impacted the front of V2, resulting in minor damage. V1 continued traveling west and the front of V1 impacted the left side of V3, resulting in moderate damage. V1 continued west and then the front of V1 impacted the front of V4, resulting in the actuation of the driver's seat belt retractor pretensioner and the deployment of both frontal air bags. V1 rotated slightly clockwise and came to final rest in the center eastbound travel lane, facing northwest. V4 rotated slightly clockwise and came to final rest near the point of impact, facing southeast. After the first two crash events, V2 and V3 continued a short distance and came to a stop, still in the inside eastbound travel lane, facing east. V1, V2 and V4 were towed due to damage. V3 was driven from the scene. The case occupant is the 65 year old male driver in V1 who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and his steering column mounted frontal air bag deployed during the third crash event. He sustained serious injuries and was transported to an outside hospital prior to being transferred to the trauma center, where he was hospitalized for two days. The three occupants in V2 were reportedly not injured in the crash. The drivers of V3 and V4 were also reportedly not injured.