The case occupant is a 37 year old female driver, restrained with a manual lap/shoulder belt, who was involved in a minor sideswipe-type event followed by a head-on collision and minor side-slap. Her frontal, side impact and side curtain air bags deployed during the crash and she sustained moderate injuries. This wrong-way crash occurred on a state freeway during evening hours, in darkness under clear weather and dry roadway conditions. In the area where the crash occurred, the two northbound lanes are separated from the two southbound lanes by a grassy median. The northbound asphalt travel lanes curve to the right and have a slight uphill grade. There is a narrow paved strip adjacent to the inside lane and a paved shoulder next to the outer lane. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2012 Honda Civic four door sedan, was driving the wrong way on one of the freeway off-ramps. While traveling south, V1 entered the freeway and moved into the inner northbound travel lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Dodge Stratus two door coupe, was traveling north in the inside northbound lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 1997 Mercedes-Benz E320 four door sedan, was also traveling north in the inside lane, and was a short distance behind V2. All three vehicles were negotiating a curved section of roadway when the driver of V2 saw V1 and steered right in an attempt to avoid a collision. The driver of V1 began to brake, but the left side of V1 impacted the left side of V2, resulting in the actuation of V1's driver seat belt retractor pretensioner and the deployment of V1's left side impact and left side curtain air bags. V2 traveled a short distance north and came to final rest on grassy area adjacent to the east shoulder. V1 continued south and then the front of V1 impacted the front of V3, resulting in the deployment of V1's driver frontal air bag, right side impact and right curtain air bags. V1 rotated counterclockwise while V3 continued in a northeasterly direction and V1's right side impacted V3's left side, resulting in minor damage. V1 continued rotating counterclockwise and came to final rest facing southwest in the inner northbound lane. V3 continued a short distance and came to final rest facing northeast on the east shoulder and adjacent grassy area. All three vehicles were towed from the scene. The case occupant in V1 is the 37 year old female driver who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. The driver's seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and her frontal steering column mounted, left seat back outboard mounted side and left curtain air bags deployed. She sustained moderate injuries and was transported to the trauma center where she was hospitalized for 11 days. No other occupants were in V1. The driver and sole occupant of V2 sustained minor injuries; his treatment status is unknown. The driver and sole occupant in V3 sustained serious injuries but her treatment status is also unknown.