This case occupant is a 60 year old female front right passenger who was involved in a minor near-side crash. This occupant was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt with a side impact air bag deployment and she sustained severe injuries. This intersection crash occurred during daylight hours under overcast weather and wet roadway conditions. In the general area, the north-south roadway is comprised of three northbound and three southbound asphalt travel lanes, with left-turn only lanes present at the intersection. The intersecting roadway consists of three lanes, with one through lane, one left-turn only lane and one additional through lane with right turns allowed at the junction. There are traffic lights present for all vehicles traveling through the intersection. The north-south travel lanes are straight and level. The east-west lanes are level on the west side and have a downhill grade on the east side of the intersection. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2008 Chevrolet Aveo four door hatchback, was traveling south in the center lane, waiting to make a left turn. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 New Flyer metro bus (unknown model), was north in lane one. Vehicle three (V3), a 2001 Toyota Rav4 compact utility vehicle, was stopped in the center left turn only lane located on the east side of the street, waiting at the traffic light. V1 began to turn left and the front of V2 impacted the right side of V1, resulting in the deployment of V1's case occupant's side impact air bag. V1 rotated clockwise, as it moved in a northeasterly direction and the back of V1 impacted the left side of V3, resulting in minor damage. V1 came to final rest near V3, facing west. V3 moved slightly from the impact and came to final rest still in the left-turn only lane, facing northwest. V1 and V3 were towed due to damage, while V2 was driven from the scene. The case occupant in V1 is a 60 year old female front right passenger who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. The outboard seat back mounted side air bag deployed during the crash. She sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center where she was hospitalized for seven days. The driver of V1, a 23 year old female, was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. There were no air bag deployments in her seating position. According to the police, she was not injured, but her treatment status is unknown.