This two vehicle intersection crash involves three case subjects. The first case occupant is the 70 year old male driver of vehicle one. He was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, had a frontal airbag deployment and he sustained critical injuries. The second case occupant is the 82 year old male driver of vehicle two, who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt with a frontal airbag deployment and who sustained moderate severity injuries. The third case occupant was the 74 year old female front right passenger in vehicle two who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt with a frontal airbag deployment and who sustained serious injuries. All case occupants were transported to the trauma center. This crash occurred at dusk, under clear, dry roadway and weather conditions. The north/south roadway is a two lane, two way street with narrow paved shoulders present. There are no traffic controls for north/southbound vehicles. The east/west intersecting roadway is a two lane, two way street with narrow paved shoulders and stop signs present at the intersection. On the southwest corner of the intersection there is a culvert, followed by a ditch filled with water. Just south of the ditch there is an area with rocks and bushes, followed by a wooden fence bordering a grassy field. Vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Toyota Yaris two door hatchback, was travelling west approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Toyota Avalon four door sedan, was travelling south on the intersecting roadway. Both vehicles entered the intersection and the front of V2 impacted V1's right front. As both vehicles continued towards the southwest corner of the intersection, V1 rotated sharply counterclockwise as V2 rotated clockwise. V1's back right corner impacted the left side of V2. V1 continued to rotate counterclockwise and began to rollover to the right with the right side contacting the roadway before V1 departed the road at the southwest corner. V1 continued to roll four quarter turns in the area adjacent to the roadway. During the fourth quarter turn, V1's undercarriage and left side impacted the wooden fence. V1 then rolled two more quarter turns into the grassy field and came to final rest on its roof facing south. After the sideslap event (Event #2), V2 traveled off the southwest corner of the intersection and into the rocky area just south of the ditch. V2's left side then impacted a wood post, followed by some rocks and bushes. Then V2 started to rollover to the right, into the watery ditch. V2 completed two quarter turns and came to final rest upside-down in the ditch, facing west. Both vehicles were towed disabled. This crash involved three case occupants. The first subject is the driver of V1 who is a 70 year old male. He was wearing the manual lap/shoulder belt. His seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and his steering column mounted frontal airbag deployed during the first crash event. He sustained critical injuries and was transported to the trauma center, where he was hospitalized for thirty-five days. There was a 58 year old female front right passenger seated in V1. She was reported to be unrestrained and had frontal and side curtain airbag deployments in her position. Following event #2, and during V1's rotation and subsequent rollover, this occupant was fully ejected out of the front right glazing area. Her body traveled in a southwesterly direction and came to final rest off the roadway, near the rocks and bushes. The second case occupant is V2's 82 year old male driver. He was wearing the manual lap/shoulder belt; his seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and his frontal steering column mounted airbag deployed during the first crash event. He sustained moderate severity injuries and was transported to the trauma center, where he was hospitalized for two days. The third case occupant is the 74 year old female front right passenger. She was wearing the manual lap/shoulder belt and her seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and front instrument panel mounted airbag deployed. She sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. She was hospitalized for twenty-nine days before she passed away from complications.