This single vehicle crash involves two case occupants that were involved in an interrupted rollover event. The first case occupant is a 23 year old male driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt with a deployed frontal air bag who sustained multiple moderate severity injuries. The second case occupant is a 22 year old female second row left side passenger, not wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt who sustained multiple moderate severity injuries. This crash occurred at dawn on a six lane, two way interstate freeway under clear weather and dry roadway conditions. The east-west lanes are divided by a grassy median with trees and vegetation present. In the area where the crash occurred, the westbound travel lanes are level, curve to the left, and are comprised of asphalt. On the north side of the roadway, there is a paved shoulder, followed by a grassy area. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2010 Chrysler Sebring four door sedan, was traveling west in lane one. The driver of V1 reported that he fell asleep and departed his lane to the right, crossed over the paved shoulder and drifted off the north edge of the freeway. The driver woke up, overcorrected and V1 went into a counterclockwise yaw. V1 then started to trip with the right side leading and began to rollover. Both of the frontal air bags, as well as the right outboard side impact air bag and right curtain deployed during the crash. During the rollover event, V1's top struck a large metal sign/post that was adjacent to the north shoulder. V1 completed eight quarter turns in total and came to final rest on its tires, facing south, partially on the north shoulder and partly off the roadway. V1 was towed due to damage. The first case occupant is the 23 year old male driver who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated during the crash, and his steering column mounted frontal air bag deployed. He sustained serious injuries and was transported to an outside hospital prior to being transferred to the trauma center. The second case occupant is the 22 year old female second row left side passenger who was not wearing the available manual lap and shoulder belt. This occupant reported that she had been sleeping prior to the crash and was leaning to the left. She sustained moderate severity injuries and was also transported to the outside hospital prior to being transferred to the trauma center. The driver was hospitalized one day and the back seat passenger was hospitalized for three days.