This near-side impact crash case involves a 25 year old female passenger in the second row right postion who was not wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt and sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred during the evening hours at a four way intersection controlled by traffic signals. The north-south roadway consists of six level asphalt lanes, three for northbound vehicles, two for southbound vehicles with left turn only lanes present at the intersection. The intersecting east-west asphalt roadway is a two lane, two-way street. At the time of the crash, there were rainy weather conditions and wet roadways. It was dark but the intersection was illuminated by overhead street lights. The case vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Infiniti G35 two door coupe, was traveling north and entered the left turn only lane as it approached the intersection. Vehicle 2 (V2), a 1989 Toyota Land Cruiser, was traveling south in the curb lane. V1 was making a left turn through the intersection as V2 entered the intersection and the front of V2 impacted the right side of V1. V1 rotated counterclockwise as it traveled a short distance south and came to final rest in the southbound travel lanes, facing southwest. V2 traveled in a southwesterly direction, departed the roadway at the southwest corner of the intersection, and came to final rest partially off the roadway, facing southwest. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene. The case occupant is the 25 year old female passenger of V1 in the second row right seating position who was not restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. There were no air bags available in this seating position. This case occupant sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. There were two other occupants in the vehicle. The driver of V1, a 19 year old male, and the front row right side passenger, a 20 year old male, were both not wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belts. No airbags deployed in the driver's position and in the front right passenger position, the frontal instrument mounted, the side impact seat back and roof side rail airbags all deployed on impact. Neither the driver nor the front right passenger was injured in the crash.