This severe frontal impact crash involved a 40 year old male who was restrained with a lap/shoulder belt and had a frontal airbag deployment. He sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred at night in a dark area with clear, dry conditions on two lane, two way east/west highway with narrow paved shoulders. Vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Toyota Prius four door hatchback was travelling in the eastbound lane. Vehicle two (V2) was a 1972 Kenworth medium/heavy truck pulling a flat bed trailer that stopped in the westbound lane and began to back into a driveway on the south side of the roadway. V2 had the trailer partially angled to the southeast across the eastbound lane when the front of V1 impacted the left side of the trailer. The trailer had a front and rear axle. The left side of V1 first swiped the front left trailer tire before the front of V1 then impacted the left side of the trailer. Then the front right corner of V1 impacted the left rear tire of the trailer as V1 began to rotate counterclockwise away from the trailer. V1 continued to rotate off the south edge of the roadway with the back half down into the ditch. The right lower frame then scraped the edge of the road. V1 then came to final rest facing north in the ditch with the front end still on the roadway. V2 stayed facing northwest in the angled backing position. V2 was not damaged and driven from the scene. V1 was towed due to damage. The driver of V1 was the case occupant. He was a 40 year old male who was wearing the manual lap/shoulder belt and the retractor pretensioner actuated. The front steering column airbag deployed on impact. His lower legs became entrapped by the intrusion of the instrument panel and lower side panel and had to be extricated by removing the door panel that was also jammed shut. He sustained serious injuries and was taken to a local hospital and then transferred to the trauma center. A front right passenger was also in V1. She was a 49 year old female who was wearing the manual lap/shoulder belt and retractor pretensioner actuated. The frontal instrument panel mounted airbag deployed in her position. She sustained only minor injuries and was treated on scene.