This case occupant is an 89 year old female driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, who was involved in a moderate frontal impact with frontal, side and roof side rail curtain air bag deployments. She sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred during daylight hours under clear weather and dry roadway conditions. Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Honda Civic four door sedan, was parked in a private parking lot comprised of level asphalt. The driver of V1 backed out of the parking space and then began to travel forward. V1 traveled up and over the parking strip adjacent to the parking space and then began to accelerate as V1 traveled east through the parking lot. V1's front right tire impacted a parking block, deflating the tire. V1 continued forward and its front right impacted a pole, resulting in minor sideswipe damage. V1 traveled a short distance and its front end impacted a building, resulting in the actuation of the front row seat belt retractor and buckle pretensioners and the deployment of the frontal, left side and left side curtain air bags. V1 rotated slightly counterclockwise and came to final rest near the building, facing east. V1 was towed due to damage. The case occupant is the driver of V1, an 89 year old female, who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt with the actuation of the seat belt retractor and buckle pretensioners. Her steering column mounted frontal air bag, outboard seat back mounted side air bag and left roof side rail mounted curtain air bag deployed during the crash. This driver sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center where she was hospitalized for twelve days. The 85 year old front right passenger was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. Her seat belt retractor and buckle pretensioners actuated and her frontal air bag deployed. She was fatally injured and died at the scene. The 88 year old second row right side passenger was not wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt and sustained severe injuries. She was transported to the trauma center and later died of her injuries.