The case occupant is a 37 year old female driver, restrained with a manual lap/shoulder belt, who was involved in a severe near-side collision. Her frontal, left side seatback and left side roof rail curtain air bags all deployed and she sustained severe injuries. This crash occurred on a four lane, two way, undivided state freeway during evening hours with rainy weather and wet roadway conditions. In the area where the crash occurred, the roadway is comprised of two east and two westbound level asphalt travel lanes, separated by a slightly sloped grassy center median containing scattered shrubs and small trees. The travel lanes curve to the right for eastbound vehicles and curve to the left for westbound vehicles. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Volkswagen Jetta four door sedan, was traveling east in lane two of two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1988 Chevrolet K1500 large pickup with an extended cab, was traveling west in lane one of the westbound lanes. Vehicle three (V3), a 2008 Toyota Rav-4 compact utility vehicle, was traveling west in lane two of the westbound lanes. All the vehicles were in the curved section of roadway. V1 departed the roadway to the left into the sloped grassy median and the front of V1 impacted two small trees, and a shrub, all resulting in minor damage. V1 began to travel up the other sloped side of the median where V1's undercarriage impacted the ground, resulting in the actuation of V1's front left seat belt retractor pretensioner and the deployment of V1's frontal air bag. V1 then entered onto the westbound travel lanes with a slight clockwise rotation and began to rollover to the left. V1 rolled four quarter turns and then landed on its tires, as it entered V2's lane of travel. The front of V2 then impacted the left side of V1, resulting in the deployment of V1's left seat back mounted side air bag and left side curtain air bag. V1 then came partially into lane 2 and the front of V3 impacted the left front of V1. V1 rotated clockwise and came to final rest off the roadway into the median, facing southwest. V3 rotated slightly counterclockwise and came to final rest off the roadway, facing southwest, near V1 in the grassy median. After the initial impact between V1 and V2, V2 moved right across the north shoulder and the front of V2 impacted a guardrail face. V2 came to final rest near the guardrail, facing west. All three vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant in V1 is a 37 year old female driver who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. The driver's seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and her frontal steering column mounted air bag, left seat back mounted side air bag and left roof side rail mounted curtain air bag all deployed during the crash. She sustained severe injuries and was transported to the trauma center for treatment. No other occupants were in V1.