This frontal impact crash case involves a 57 year old female driver, wearing a manual lap/shoulder belt, with deployed frontal, side and curtain air bags who sustained serious injuries. This intersection crash occurred during daylight hours on a two lane, two way state highway. The asphalt highway is straight with a slight uphill grade for north and southbound vehicles. On the west side of the travel lanes there is a paved shoulder, followed by a ditch. At the time of the crash, there were clear weather conditions and dry roadways. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Honda Accord four door sedan, was traveling north in lane one and vehicle 2 (V2), a 1988 Jeep Cherokee compact utility vehicle, was traveling south in the southbound lane. Vehicle 3 (V3), a 1999 Ford Explorer compact utility vehicle, was also traveling south, behind V2. All three vehicles were approaching an intersection. V2 began to decelerate, intending to take a left turn onto the intersecting roadway. V3 braked and steered to the right, but the front of V3 impacted the back right of V2, pushing V2 into V1's travel lane. The driver of V1 braked and steered right but the front of V1 impacted the front of V2, resulting in the deployment of V1's driver's front, side and curtain air bags. After the impact, V1 rotated counterclockwise, traveled a short distance north and came to final rest near the northeast corner of the intersection, facing northwest. V2 rotated counterclockwise and came to final rest in the northbound travel lane, facing northeast. After the initial impact between V2 and V3, V3 continued traveling south, departed the roadway to the right, traveled into the ditch and rolled one quarter turn to the right. V3 came to final rest in the ditch, laying on its right side, facing south. All three vehicles sustained disabling damage and were towed from the scene. The case occupant is the 57 year old female driver of V1 who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. This case occupant's steering column mounted frontal air bag, left seat back mounted side air bag and left roof side rail mounted side curtain all deployed. She sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. There were no other occupants in the vehicle.