This single vehicle crash involved two case occupants in a right side collision, followed by a moderate rollover event. The first case occupant is a 21 year old male driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, with a deployed frontal air bag who sustained serious injuries. The second case occupant is a 27 year old female, front row right passenger, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, with a deployed frontal air bag who sustained severe injuries. This crash occurred on a two lane, two way roadway. On the north side of the roadway there is a narrow paved strip and a guardrail. On the south side of the travel lanes, there is a sloped dirt embankment that leads to a ditch-like area. Then the ground slopes back upward to an area containing trees of various sizes. This crash occurred in darkness with overhead street lights, under clear weather and dry roadway conditions. In the area where the crash occurred, the one westbound travel lane curves to the left, is level and comprised of asphalt. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Pontiac Grand Prix SE four door sedan, was traveling west in lane one. As V1 negotiated the left curve, the driver of V1 lost control of the vehicle and began to go into a counterclockwise yaw. While in the yaw, V1 traveled across lanes one and two and departed the south side of the roadway. V1 traveled down the sloped embankment, then back up the other side and its front bumper swiped a tree, resulting in minor damage. Then V1's right front impacted another tree, resulting in the deployment of both frontal air bags. This impact forced V1 into a sharp counterclockwise rotation, causing V1 to begin to rollover to the left. V1's left side did not impact the ground. V1 rolled onto its top, then partially onto its right side and then tilted back onto its top. V1 came to final rest completely off the roadway, on its top, facing north. V1 was towed due to damage. The first case occupant is a 21 year old male driver who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, with a frontal steering column mounted air bag deployment. He sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. The second case occupant is the 27 year old female front row right side passenger who was wearing the available manual lap and shoulder belt, with a frontal instrument panel mounted air bag deployment. This occupant sustained severe injuries and was also transported to the trauma center.