This severe single vehicle frontal crash involved two case occupants, a 23 year old female driver who was restrained with the lap/shoulder belt and the pretensioner actuated and the steering column mounted and knee bolster mounted airbags deployed. This driver sustained severe injuries and was transported to the trauma center. The second case occupant was the front right passenger, a 23 year old male, who was restrained with the lap/shoulder belt and the pretensioner actuated and the instrument panel mounted airbag deployed. He sustained serious injuries and was transported to the hospital. A third non-case occupant was seated in the second seat left and was not restrained and sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. This crash occurred during daylight hours with clear, dry conditions. Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Scion TC hatchback was eastbound on a two lane, two way highway attempting a right turn at an intersection with a road that leads for short distance to a two lane, two way bridge over a river. V1 departed the roadway to the left. The left side of V1 swiped a utility pole just before the front of V1 impacted the north end of the bridge rail on the east side of the bridge. V1 was towed due to damage and the emergency crew cut and removed the roof to extricate and access the injured occupants. This crash includes two case occupants, the driver and front right passenger of V1. The driver is a 23 year old female was restrained with the lap/shoulder belt and the pretensioner actuated and both, the steering column mounted and knee bolster mounted airbags, deployed. This driver sustained severe injuries and was transported to the trauma center. The front right passenger is a 24 year old male, who was restrained with the lap/shoulder belt and the pretensioner actuated and the instrument panel mounted airbag deployed. He sustained serious injuries and was transported to the hospital. A third non-case occupant was a 24 year old female who was seated in the second seat left and was not restrained. She sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. No other occupants were in the vehicle.