This frontal crash case involves a 68 year old male driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, with deployed frontal and side curtain air bags who sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred during daylight hours under clear weather and dry roadway conditions. Vehicle one (V1), a 2008 Chevrolet Avalanche four door large pickup, was southbound on a two lane, two way asphalt roadway with paved shoulders and no curbs. In V1's precrash area the southbound lane curves to the left with a level grade. V1 was negotiating the left curve when the driver departed the roadway to the right, traveled over a gravel section adjacent to the shoulder and up a sloped embankment. V1 continued traveling south for approximately 50 meters and then the front of V1 impacted a tree, resulting in the actuation of this occupant's seat belt retractor pretensioner and the deployment of his frontal and side curtain air bags. V1 rotated clockwise and the back of V1 was impacted by the boat it was towing, resulting in minor damage. V1 continued to rotate clockwise and came to final rest off the roadway, facing northwest with the trailer and boat still attached, facing south. V1 was towed due to damage. The case occupant is the driver of V1, a 68 year old male, who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. During the first crash event, his seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and his steering column mounted frontal air bag and left roof side rail mounted curtain deployed. This driver sustained serious injuries, was transported to an area hospital and was later transferred to the trauma center, where he was hospitalized for twenty days. There was a 58 year old male front right passenger who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. During the first event, his seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and his instrument panel mounted air bag and right roof side rail mounted curtain deployed. He was fatally injured and was declared dead on scene. There were no other occupants in the vehicle.