This single vehicle crash involved two case occupants who were in a severe frontal collision. The first case occupant is a 19 year old male driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt with a deployed frontal air bag who sustained serious injuries. The second case occupant is a 17 year old male second row right side passenger, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt who sustained serious injuries. This delayed notification crash reportedly occurred hours before the crashed vehicle was found in the early morning and the crash time was reported as the time vehicle was found. The vehicle was travelling on a two lane, two way roadway and at the time of the crash overnight the weather was clear with dry roadway conditions. In the area where the crash occurred, the one westbound travel lane is level, curves to the left, and is comprised of asphalt. On the north side of the roadway, there is a grassy area, followed by a deep ditch that lines the road. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Chevrolet Cobalt four door sedan, was traveling west in lane one. The driver of V1 was traveling too fast for conditions and lost control of the vehicle. V1 crossed the centerline and traveled into the eastbound lane. The driver braked and began to skid longitudinally towards the north roadway edge. V1 crossed back over the westbound lane and departed the roadway to the right. V1 traveled into the ditch and the front of V1 impacted the ditch/culvert, resulting in the actuation of the front row seat belt retractor pretensioners and the deployment of the frontal air bags. V1 rotated clockwise and its left rear impacted a steel gate crossing a private driveway. V1 came to final rest in the driveway, facing south and was towed due to damage. The first case occupant is the 19 year old male driver who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and his steering column mounted frontal air bag deployed. He sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. The second case occupant is the 17 year old male second row right side passenger who was restrained with the available manual lap and shoulder belt. This occupant sustained serious injuries and was also transported to the trauma center. There was a 17 year old male front row right side passenger, restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt, with an instrument panel mounted frontal air bag deployment. He also sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center.