This 66-year-old male (175cm/93kg, 5'9"/205lbs) was the front right passenger of a 2003 Toyota Highlander four door utility vehicle that was involved in a severe frontal impact with a large tree. The principal direction of force was 12 o'clock. This case occupant was using the manual lap/shoulder belt and the belt retractor pretensioner actuated and the frontal instrument mounted airbag deployed on impact. It appeared the seatback was in some reclined position. On impact his body moved forward being restrained by the seatbelt. Significant loading on the seatbelt webbing was documented on the shoulder portion. The webbing at the latch plate also had loading on the webbing. The left knee contacted and deformed the center instrument panel and the right knee contacted and deformed the glove box. The distance between both knee contacts suggest the legs were both abducted. The seat cushion had apparent deformity from his buttocks/pelvis with some downward movement under the belt system. This patient suffered multiple injuries and died at the scene. Injuries evident on autopsy included: a right subarachnoid hemorrhage, a C4 fracture and hyoid fracture with deep abrasions across the right side of the neck. He also had multiple comminuted fractures of the sternum with a large right hemothorax and multiple right lower lobe lung lacerations, a comminuted left patella fracture, and a fracture of the symphysis pubis with an associated hematoma. The source of the subarachnoid hemorrhage was listed as unknown as there was no clear contact for the head. The C4 fracture and hyoid fracture were attributed to compression and flexion from the shoulder belt, which was riding high on the neck as evidenced by the neck abrasions. It was thought that he may have been in a partially reclined position. The chest injuries were all attributed to loading on the seat belt. The patella fracture was attributed to impact with the center instrument panel which was rated as certain. The pubic symphysis fracture was attributed to compression on both knees which were in an abducted position at impact.