This frontal impact crash case involves a 29 year old male, seated in the second row left seating position, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. The second case occupant is a 29 year old male, seated in the second row right seating position, also wearing a manual lap/shoulder belt. Both case occupants sustained serious injuries. This intersection crash occurred during daylight hours on a two lane, two way state highway. The north-south asphalt highway is straight and level in both directions. At the time of the crash, there were clear weather conditions and dry roadways. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Honda Odyssey minivan, was traveling north in the northbound lane and vehicle 2 (V2), a 1998 Kenworth Conventional Construct T300 medium/heavy flatbed, was traveling south in the southbound lane. Vehicle 3 (V3), a 2002 Toyota Camry four door sedan, was also traveling south, ahead of V2. All three vehicles were approaching an intersection. V3 came to a stop, intending to take a left turn onto the intersecting roadway. As V2 approached V3, V2 braked and then attempted to avoid a collision by steering to the left. As V2 traveled into the northbound lane, its front impacted the back of V3. V2 continued traveling further into the northbound lane and the front of V1 impacted V2's right side, resulting in the deployment of V1's frontal air bags. After the impact, V1 rotated clockwise slightly and came to final rest in the intersection, facing northeast. V2 came to final rest on the southeast side of the intersection, facing southeast. After the initial impact between V2 and V3, V3 rotated approximately 180 degrees clockwise and came to final rest on the south side of the intersection, facing northwest. V1 and V3 sustained disabling damage and were towed from the scene. The case occupants are the two 29 year old male passengers seated in the second row of V1. They were both wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belts and had no air bag deployments. Both sustained serious injuries and were taken to a nearby hospital prior to being transferred to the trauma center. There was a 29 year old male driver, wearing the available manual/lap shoulder belt with a steering column mounted frontal air bag deployment. There was a 29 year old male passenger, seated in the front right position, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt with an instrument panel mounted front air bag deployment. The two front row occupants sustained minor injuries and were transported to a nearby hospital and later both were transferred to the trauma center.