This case occupant is a 21year old male driver, not wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, who was involved in a moderate frontal crash with additional impacts, including a rollover and an impact with another vehicle. His frontal, side and curtain air bags all deployed during the crash and he sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred during evening hours, in darkness, under clear weather and dry roadway conditions. Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Nissan 350Z two door coupe, was southbound in lane two of a three lane, one way state freeway. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Daewoo Nubira four door station wagon, was traveling south in lane one, slightly ahead of V1. In the area where the crash occurred, the asphalt travel lanes are straight with an uphill grade for southbound vehicles. On the west side of the lanes is a wide paved shoulder, followed by a hill covered with sporadic trees, bushes and large rocks. On the east side of the freeway lanes there is a narrow paved strip of pavement, followed by a guardrail. As V1 traveled south, the driver lost control of the vehicle and departed his lane to the right. V1 traveled across lane one, the paved shoulder and departed the right side of the freeway. V1 traveled a short distance and then the front of V1 impacted the embankment, resulting in the deployment of the driver's frontal air bag. V1 continued traveling south and then V1's front left tire impacted a large rock, shearing off the LF tire and resulting in the deployment of the driver's side and curtain air bags. V1 rotated clockwise across the west shoulder and began to rollover to the left. V1 completed two quarter turns, with the left side not impacting the ground, and landed on its top. During the rollover event, V1 traveled back into the southbound lanes and V1's right rear was impacted by V2's front, resulting in the deployment of V1's right side and curtain air bags. That impact pushed V1 further down the roadway, where it came to final rest on its top, facing northwest in the inside southbound lane. V2 came to a controlled stop on the west shoulder of the freeway. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. The case occupant is the driver of V1, a 21 year old male, who was not wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His steering column mounted air bag, outboard seat back mounted air bag and left side curtain all deployed during the crash events. This driver sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center for treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle. The driver of V2 sustained minor injuries and his treatment status is unknown.