This crash occurred on a 2-lane undivided rural trafficway. The trafficway is situated in a north to south configuration and is comprised of 1 travel lane in each direction. The east side of the trafficway is bordered by a paved shoulder and a steel W-beam guardrail. The west side of the trafficway is bordered by a paved shoulder and a large grass and dirt area. At the time of the crash it was dark. There was no street light present in the area. The weather was cloudy and it had just finished raining. As a result the road surface was wet. Traffic for that area at that time of the evening can be moderate. Involved in the crash was the case vehicle (V1) a 2004 Honda Accord 4-door sedan equipped with manual 3-point lap and shoulder restraints for each seating position. In addition to the manual restraints the case vehicle (V1) is also equipped with a driver and right passenger frontal impact air bags, both of which deployed in the crash. The driver of the case vehicle (V1) was a 34-year-old male. He was using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. The right front seat was occupied by our case subject, a 35-year-old female. She was not using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. Also involved in the crash was the Principal Other Vehicle (POV) (V2) a 2005 Dodge Durango 4-door sport utility vehicle. Neither the driver nor the right front occupant loss consciousness in the crash. When the paramedics arrived they removed the right passenger from the vehicle and she was transported to the trauma center via helicopter. The case vehicle (V1) was traveling in a southerly direction in the proper lane. The POV (V2) was stopped in the grass which borders the west side of the trafficway. The POV (V2) was facing in a southerly direction and waiting for the southbound traffic to clear in order to make a U-turn and depart the area in a northerly direction. The POV (V2) pulled out to make the U-turn and was struck in the left side by the case vehicle (V1). The driver of the case vehicle (V1) saw the POV (V2) pull out and attempted to avoid an impact by applying the brakes and steering to the left. The case vehicle (V1) was over the centerline of the roadway when it struck the POV (V2). After the impact, the case vehicle (V1) pushed the POV (V2) laterally as it slid to its final rest position. The POV came to final rest across the trafficway facing in an easterly direction. The case vehicle (V1) came to final rest in the northbound lane facing in a southerly direction.