Case Focus: The case occupant is a 23-year old, male driver, of a 2006 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a moderate frontal impact, with an embankment. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the early afternoon hours (daylight), of a fall weekend, within an interchange area of a four-lane northbound roadway. This northbound roadway is part of a north/south trafficway/highway that intersects an east/west trafficway. The area of the crash consists of a single acceleration lane which joins three northbound through lanes, eventually forming four northbound lanes. The acceleration lane/fourth lane joins the three northbound lanes on the left. The northbound lanes curve from right to left in the area of the crash, but then straighten. The left roadside consists of a grass embankment. The roadway surface was reportedly dry at the time of the crash and the weather was clear. The posted speed limit was 89 km/h (55 mph). The 23-year old male case occupant was operating Vehicle 1, the 2006 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan, in the far left acceleration lane (fourth lane). The driver had just negotiated the curved single lane ramp and intended to proceed northbound. The case occupant was not restrained, but did have the benefit of a frontal impact air bag. Vehicle 2, a 1988 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was traveling in the third, northbound travel lane (far left), approaching the interchange from the south. Crash: At the junction of the acceleration lane and the three northbound lanes, northbound traffic began to slow and come to a stop. The driver of Vehicle 2 applied his brakes and steered left. Vehicle 2 entered the acceleration lane and the right side plane of Vehicle 1 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 2 in a sideswipe type impact (event 1). The driver of Vehicle 1 apparently steered left and Vehicle 1 departed the roadway to the left where its frontal plane struck an embankment (event 2). Vehicle 2 reportedly rolled onto its right side plane (event 3) and came to rest at the embankment. Vehicle 2 came to a controlled stop in the roadway. As a result of its impact with the embankment, Vehicle 1's frontal (driver) impact air bag deployed. Post-Crash: Emergency medical services personnel (EMS) responded to the scene. The left side pillars of Vehicle 1 were cut through and the case occupant was subsequently removed. He was transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center (CIREN) and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained from the crash. Vehicle 2 was driven from the scene.