This 77-year old male case occupant was the belted driver of a 2006 Ford Ranger compact pick-up truck, which was primarily involved in a severe, 12 o'clock, frontal impact with a vertical barrier post (concrete or steel / event 4). He had the benefit of a frontal air bag (2nd generation) and was utilizing a 3-point lap/shoulder belt restraint (with buckle pretensioner actuation). His bucket seat (with folding backrest), based upon inspection, was thought to be in the mid seat-track position, but due the poor post crash condition of the vehicle and the occupant's stature, may have been further rearward than observed. His seat backrest was upright (no deformations). At the time of the crash, he was 183 cm (72 in) in height and weighed 80 kg (176 lbs). During a series of initial impacts, the case occupant likely pre-loaded his belt restraint system with his upper torso. However, upon impact with the vertical barrier post, he was projected mostly forward, in reference to the vehicle, loading the belt restraint with his upper torso and pelvis (loading evidence at the D-ring and latch plate). He loads through the deployed frontal air bag with his head and chest, contacting the steering wheel rim at the top (small indentation) and the bottom right (noticeable bending). Based upon injury, his knees likely contacted the knee bolster panel, though no deformation was evident. The case occupant came to rest in his respective seating area where he was found post crash. The case occupant's injuries include: a left shoulder abrasion, a central chest contusion and bilateral hip contusions which are the certain result of seat belt loading, while a bilateral pubic rami fracture is the probable result of seat belt loading. Bilateral knee contusions (knee bolster panel - certain) and a scalp laceration (windshield glazing - possible) were also present. The case occupant also sustained a bilateral subdural hematoma (steering wheel rim through/past air bag - probable), bilateral subarachnoid hemorrhage, intraventricular hemorrhage, a right orbit medial wall fracture and a right orbit floor fracture (steering wheel rim through/past air bag - possible). Bilateral rib fractures (left 3rd - 5th and 9th - 10th, right 3rd - 9th), bilateral hemothoraces, a right upper lobe pulmonary contusion, a right pneumothorax and a sternum fracture are also the probable result of contact with the steering wheel rim or possibly loading of the seat belt restraint. Finally, a liver laceration is probably attributable to both the seat belt and steering wheel rim combined or possibly the seat belt or steering wheel rim exclusively. The case occupant expired 10 days post crash and had a maximum Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS) of AIS 3.