Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 32-year old, male driver (case occupant), of a 2006 Ford F-150, which was primarily involved in a moderate, rollover crash. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the late evening hours (dark), of a late summer weekday, at the intersection of two roadways. The east/west roadway consists of two, bituminous travel lanes as does the north/south roadway. Both roadways, as well as the intersection are level and straight and have a speed limit of 35 mph (56 km/h). The weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. The overall environment is rural in nature. The 32-year old male driver (case occupant) was operating Vehicle 1, the 2006 Ford F-150 pick-up truck, in the eastbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the west. The driver intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling east. His belt status is unknown (suspected non-usage) due to a lack of loading evidence to his 3-point lap/shoulder belt. Vehicle 1 was noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags only, but there were no air bag deployments for this crash. Vehicle 2, a 1995 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan, was traveling southbound, approaching the intersection from the north. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling south. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and as a result, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 in a "T-type" configuration (event 1). As a result of this first impact, Vehicle 2 quickly rotated counterclockwise as Vehicle 1 was redirected to the southeast. At this time, Vehicle 2's right side plane struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 in a "side slap" configuration (event 2). As Vehicle 1 traveled to the southeast corner of the intersection, it is believed that the driver of Vehicle 1 initiated a left steering maneuver. Vehicle 1 began to rotate quickly counterclockwise as it departed the intersection. Vehicle slid sideways, right side leading, at the southeast corner of the intersection as its right side wheels furrowed the soft ground/earth. At this time, Vehicle rolled right about its longitudinal axis (event 3). Vehicle 1 rolled six (6) quarter turns before coming to rest on its top plane. During the rollover sequence, Vehicle 1's right side plane struck a small yielding roadway sign (event 4). Vehicle 1 came to rest, east of the intersection, off the southern edge of the east/west roadway. Vehicle 2, after being redirected, came to rest, east of the intersection, off the north edge of the east/west roadway. There were no air bag deployments or pretensioner actuations for Vehicle 1 during this crash. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was able to exit the vehicle under his own power; however, he was transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital with non-incapacitating injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.