Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 29-year-old female driver (case occupant) of a 2004 Chrysler PT Cruiser 4-door hatchback, which was involved in a moderate, near side (left side) impact by the frontal plane of a 1995 Jeep Wrangler. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight), of a late summer weekday, on a straight and level, six-lane, east/west roadway. This bituminous roadway consists of three eastbound lanes, a dedicated two-way left turn lane and two westbound lanes. The overall environment is urban in nature, with multiple commercial parking lot entrances and driveways at either side of the roadway. At the time of the crash, the weather conditions were clear and the roadway surface was dry. The speed limit of the east/west roadway is 45 mph (72 km/h). The 29-year-old female driver (case occupant) was operating Vehicle 1, the 2004 Chrysler PT Cruiser 4-door hatchback, in the parking lot area of a business located at the south side of the roadway. The driver was stopped at the entrance/exit of the parking lot with the intention of turning left into the westbound travel lanes. Based upon the vehicle inspection, her restraint status could not be determined (no evidence of loading). Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with frontal impact air bags. Vehicle 2, a 1995 Jeep Wrangler, was traveling eastbound in the center eastbound travel lane, approaching the crash area from the west. Crash: As Vehicle 1 initiated its left turn, it was struck on the left side by the frontal plane of Vehicle 2. Vehicle 1 continued a short distance while pivoting slightly counterclockwise and came to rest in the eastbound travel lanes. Vehicle 2 pivoted slightly counterclockwise and came to rest in the eastbound travel lanes as well. There were no air bag deployments for Vehicle 1 in this impact. Post-Crash: Vehicle 1's left side doors and B-pillar were removed by the responding fire/rescue personnel and the 29-year-old female driver of Vehicle 1 was removed and transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center. She was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed, but not necessarily due to damage sustained in the crash.