Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 25-year old, female driver (case occupant 1) and a 24-year old, right front, male passenger (case occupant 2), both of a 2005 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, which was involved in a frontal collision with a 2008 International Model 4300 heavy/medium truck (ambulance configuration). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours (daylight), of a summer weekday, at the intersection of a three-lane, westbound, off ramp and a five-lane, north/south travel way. The three-lane off ramp intersects the north/south travel way on the eastside, at an obtuse angle. The north/south travel way consists of three southbound lanes separated from two northbound lanes by raised concrete medians. The northbound travel direction has a positive grade, while the westbound travel direction (ramp) has a negative grade. All travel directions leading into and through the intersection are controlled by standard, overhead, tri-colored, electric traffic signals. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway surfaces were dry. The speed limit for the north/south travel way is 40 mph (64 km/h), while the westbound off ramp has a suggested speed limit of 35 mph (56 km/h). The 25-year old female driver (case occupant 1) was operating Vehicle 1, the 2005 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, in the center westbound travel lane. Vehicle 1 was approaching the intersection from the east and the driver intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling southbound. Occupying the right front seating position was the 24-year old male passenger (case occupant 2). Both front seat occupants are believed to have been belted. The driver's belt was found locked in an extended position, but exhibited no evidence of loading, while the front passenger's belt exhibited definitive evidence of loading. Occupying rear seating positions were a 2-year female (utilizing a forward facing child seat) and a 7-year old male (utilizing a 3-point lap/shoulder belt). Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with frontal air bags only. Vehicle 2, 2008 International Model 4300 heavy/medium truck (ambulance configuration), was traveling north, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling north. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection as the same time with Vehicle 1's front left plane striking the frontal plane of Vehicle 2. Vehicle 1 was redirected north as it rotated clockwise and came to rest, facing a northeasterly direction, in the northbound travel lanes. Vehicle 2 subsequently departed the left side of the roadway at the north median. Vehicle 2 was steered back into the northbound travel lanes, where it came to rest, north of Vehicle 1, facing a northerly direction. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed and its seat belt pretensioner actuated. Post-Crash: Both case occupants of Vehicle 1 (driver and right front passenger) were transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The two child occupants, in the rear seating area of Vehicle 1, were transported, by land unit, to a local hospital and treated and released with only minor injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene as a result of damage sustained in the crash.