Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 66-year old, male driver (case occupant), of a 2010 Subaru Forester, which was primarily involved in a severe, frontal impact, with the left side plane of a 1998 GMC Yukon utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight), of a summer weekday, on a straight, two-lane east/west roadway. This bituminous roadway has downhill grades for both travel directions leading into the crash area. The posted speed limit is 55 mph (89 km/h). At the time of the crash, the roadway surface was dry and the weather was clear. The overall physical environment is rural. The 66-year old male case occupant was operating Vehicle 1, the 2010 Subaru Forester compact utility vehicle, in the westbound travel lane. He was restrained by a 3-point, lap/shoulder belt (with pretensioner) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, side impact air bags (front, seat back mounted) and roof side rail curtains. Vehicle 2, a 1998 GMC Yukon large utility vehicle, was traveling east. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling eastbound. Crash: As Vehicle 2 traveled east, a non-contacted vehicle, also traveling eastbound ahead of Vehicle 2, began to slow in order to make a left turn into a private driveway. As Vehicle 2 rapidly approached the slowing vehicle, the driver of Vehicle 2 initiated a right steering maneuver around the non-contacted vehicle and entered the paved shoulder area on the south side of the roadway. At this time, the driver of Vehicle 2 initiated a left steering maneuver as it approached a guardrail located at the edge of the road, but over-steered, placing Vehicle 2 in a right side leading yaw/rotation (counterclockwise). Vehicle 2 re-entered the roadway, crossing over the eastbound travel lane and into the westbound travel lane as Vehicle 1 approached from the east. At this time, Vehicle 1's frontal plane struck Vehicle 2's front right corner area (event 1). Vehicle 2 rotated counterclockwise and the two vehicles subsequently "side slapped" with the right rear corner of Vehicle 2 engaging the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 2). As a result of both impacts, Vehicle 1 was pushed off / departed the northern edge of the road and struck a guardrail with its right side plane (event 3). Vehicle 1 came to rest up against the guardrail, facing west. Vehicle 2 continued its counterclockwise rotation as it rolled over onto its right side (event 4). Vehicle 2 came to rest in the westbound travel lane of the roadway, facing a southeasterly direction, but also cuaght fire (unknown details / event 5). As a result of the frontal impact (event 1 / main impact), the driver's advanced frontal air bag for Vehicle 1 deployed. It is suspected that the driver's side impact air bag (seat back mounted) and left side curtain deployed as a result of the second impact (side slap / event 2), while the right side curtain deployed as a result of the impact with the guardrail (event 3). Post-Crash: The responding emergency medical services personnel subsequently removed the drivers of both vehicles and transported them, by air unit, to a local trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the scene as a result of damage sustained in the crash.