This crash occurred in a 4-legged intersection. The main leg of the intersection is situated in a north to south configuration and is comprised of 2 travel lanes which are one-way to the north and a dedicated right turn lane. The intersecting roadway is situated in an east to west configuration. The west leg is comprised of 2 one-way travel lanes and the east leg is comprised of 2 east bound travel lanes and 1 west bound dedicated right turn lane. The east to west leg of the intersection is controlled by a stop sign, which was present during the crash. At the time of the crash it was early morning and daylight. The weather was clear and the road surface was dry. Traffic for that time of the day is light. Involved in the crash was the case vehicle (V1) a 1999 Lexus LX470 4-door sport utility vehicle equipped with manual 3-point lap and shoulder restraints for each seating position. In addition to the manual restraints V1 was also equipped with a driver and right passenger frontal impact air bags, neither of which, deployed in the crash. The driver of V1 (case occupant) was a 62-year-old male. He was not using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. Also involved in the crash was the Principal Other Vehicle (POV) (V2) a 1995 Eagle Vision 4-door sedan. V1 was traveling in a northerly direction in the second travel lane. V2 was traveling in an easterly direction in the proper lane. As V1 was traveling through the intersection it was struck in the left rear by V2. This impact was minor and caused V1 to begin rotating in a counterclockwise direction as it continued north. V1 then departed the roadway at the west edge as it continued traveling north. The right front corner of the bumper struck a street sign post as it continued traveling across the grass in a northwesterly direction. V1 continued rotating counterclockwise leading with the right side. At that time the right side of V1 struck a pair of palm trees. The 2 palms had a common base and rose upwards in a "V" shaped configuration. V1 came to final rest with the right side of the vehicle still engaged with the trees. The driver of V1 had a positive loss of consciousness and was transported to the trauma center. He was transported to the trauma center via helicopter arriving at 1010 hours, 1 hour after the crash.