This crash occurred in a 4-legged rural intersection. The main leg of the intersection is situated in an east to west configuration and is comprised of 2 undivided lanes. The intersecting trafficway is situated in a north to south configuration and is comprised of 2 undivided lanes. The north to south legs are controlled by a stop sign and the east to west legs are uncontrolled. At the time of the crash it was dark and there are no streetlights available, the weather was clear and the road surface was dry. Traffic for that time of the day is moderate to light. Involved in the crash was the case vehicle (V1) a 1998 Ford Escort 4-door sedan equipped with manual 3-point lap and shoulder restraints for each outboard seating position. In addition to the manual restraints, V1 is also equipped with a driver and right passenger frontal impact air bags, both of which deployed in the crash. The driver and lone occupant of the case vehicle was a 55-year-old female. She was using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. Also involved in the crash were two Principal Other Vehicles (POVs). POV 1 (V2) was a 2000 Honda Accord 4-door sedan. POV 2 (V3) is an unknown automobile. The police crash report did not document the year, make and model of V3, which was not towed from the scene. V1 was traveling in an easterly direction in the proper lane. V3 was stopped, facing north, forward of the stop bar, waiting to make a right turn. V2 was traveling in a southerly direction approaching the intersection. As V1 was traveling through the intersection, V2 entered the intersection across the path of V1. V1's front struck V2 in the right side. After the initial impact, V1 veered to the right as it continued forward. V1's right side contacted V3's front in an endswipe type impact. This contact came as V1 passed by the stopped V3 on its way to its final rest position. After the impact to V3, the case vehicle rolled to its final rest position in the middle of the eastbound lane facing in an easterly direction. After the initial impact, V2 rotated counterclockwise to its final rest position facing in an easterly direction in the middle of the westbound lane. The driver of V1 did not loose consciousness in the crash. She was awake when the paramedics arrived and was removed from the vehicle. She was transported to the trauma center via helicopter.