This crash occurred on a divided residential trafficway. The trafficway is situated in a north to south configuration and is comprised of 2 travel lanes in each direction with a dedicated left turn lane for the northbound lanes of traffic. The travel lanes are separated by a raised grass median. The center median is tree covered but otherwise without a positive barrier. The crash occurred in the early morning, it was dark and the street lights were lit. The weather was clear and the road surface was dry. Traffic for that time of the day can be light to moderate. Involved in the crash was the case vehicle (V1) a 2001 Ford Ranger 4x4 supercab pick up truck equipped with manual 3-point lap and shoulder restraints for each forward outboard seating position. In addition to the manual restraints, V1 is also equipped with a driver and right passenger frontal impact air bags, both of which deployed in the crash. The driver and lone occupant of V1 was a 25-year-old male. He was using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. The driver of V1 struck his head and loss consciousness in the crash. He was removed from V1 and transported to the trauma center under a trauma criterion of GCS < 13. He was transported via helicopter. V1 was traveling in a northerly direction in the second travel lane. As V1 continued northbound it departed the trafficway into the center median. V1 continued northbound in the grass median and entered a large clump of trees. V1 struck a tree with its right side. Direct damage started at the right "B" pillar and continued rearward. Just as V1 started to rotate clockwise from the right side impact, it struck a second tree with its front end. This tree contact started 15-cm (6") right of the centerline and continued towards the left side of the vehicle. This impact uprooted the struck tree and V1 continued traveling in a northerly direction. At this time V1 struck a third and fourth tree, almost simultaneously. First it struck the third tree with the left side then the fourth tree with the right side. After this impact, the cab and forward fenders of the case vehicle separated from the frame. The frame and cargo bed rotated clockwise and came to final rest heading in a south-easterly direction. The cab and front fenders, which had separated from the frame, came to rest on its roof. The driver of V1 was found unconscious in the upside-down cab portion, suspended by the 3-point lap and shoulder restraint system.