This crash occurred on a divided trafficway and a public plaza, driveway access. The divided trafficway is situated in an east to west configuration and is comprised of 4 travel lanes in each direction separated by a raised grass median without a positive barrier. The westbound side of the trafficway has a dedicated left turn lane for access into the parking lot. The eastbound leg of the trafficway has a dedicated U-turn lane. The parking lot driveway enters the trafficway from the south and is un-controlled. At the time of the crash traffic can be moderate to heavy. It was early afternoon and daylight. The weather was cloudy and the road surface was dry. Involved in the crash was the case vehicle (V1) a 2000 Toyota Avalon 4-door sedan equipped with manual 3-point lap and shoulder restraints for each seating position. In addition to the manual restraints V1 is also equipped with a driver and right passenger frontal impact air bags neither of which deployed in the crash. V1 was also equipped with seat mounted side impact air bags for the 2 front seats. The driver's side impact air bag deployed in the crash. The driver, and lone occupant, of V1 was a 41-year-old male. He was not using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. Also involved in the crash was the Principal Other Vehicle (POV) (V2) a 2004 Ford Focus 3-door coupe. V1 was traveling in a northerly direction departing the parking lot at the west access. The driver of V1 intended to turn left and depart the area in a westerly direction. V2 was traveling in an easterly direction in the second travel lane. The driver of V1 departed the driveway to turn left and was struck in the left side by V2. After the impact both vehicles rotated in a counterclockwise direction as V1 was pushed to final rest by V2. V1 came to final rest across the third lane facing in a northwesterly direction. V2 came to final rest against the side of V1 facing in a northeasterly direction. The driver did not loose consciousness in the crash. He was awake upon arrival of the paramedics. He was removed from the vehicle and transported to the trauma center.