This crash occurred on a 2-lane undivided residential trafficway. The trafficway is situated in a north to south configuration and is comprised of one travel lane in each direction. The trafficway is S-curved starting with a right hand curve that transitions into a left hand curve along the direction of travel for the case vehicle. The trafficway is bordered by grass and sidewalks on both the west and east sides. Situated between the road edge and the sidewalk are several trees planted in a row. Trees line both sides of the trafficway. At the time of the crash it was early morning and daylight. The weather was clear and the road surface was dry. At the time of the crash traffic is light. Involved in the crash was the case vehicle (V1) a 2001 Chevrolet Impala 4-door sedan equipped with manual 3-point lap and shoulder restraints for each seating position. In addition to the manual restraints, V1 is also equipped with a driver and right passenger frontal impact air bags, both of which deployed in the crash. V1 is also equipped with a driver's seat mounted side impact air bag, which did not deploy. The right front seat was not equipped with the side impact air bag. The driver of the case vehicle was a 17-year-old female. She was not using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. The right front seat was occupied by our case subject, a 22-year-old male. He was not using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. The driver of V1 did not meet trauma criteria and was transported to a local hospital. The case subject did not loose consciousness in the crash. He was pinned between the right front seat and the intruded right instrument panel. He was extricated from V1 by the paramedics and firefighters. The right front door, right "B" pillar and right rear door were removed and the right front seat, outboard hinge was cut in removing the occupant. He was transported to the trauma center via helicopter. V1 was traveling in a northerly direction at a police reported speed of 97 km/h (60 mph). The residential speed limit for that area is 56 km/h (35 mph). As V1 entered the right hand segment of the S-curve, it drifted to the left and departed the trafficway at the west road edge. At that time V1 struck a mailbox with the left rear fender area. V1 continued traveling north as the driver steered to the right in an attempt to re-enter the trafficway. At that time V1 entered the left hand segment of the S-curve and departed the trafficway at the east side. V1 then struck a tree with the right front fender as it continued northward. The tree crushed down the right side of V1 striking first, the right front suspension and then the right "A" pillar. As a result of the impact to the right side the case vehicle's frontal impact air bags deployed and the case vehicle rotated in a clockwise direction as it separated from the tree. The case vehicle came to final rest across the east road edge facing in an easterly direction. As indicated above, the right side of the vehicle was removed in the extrication of the right front occupant. The crush dimensions for the right side impact were measured to the nearest component and should be considered estimates at best and are included to generate a DeltaV for the impact.