This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted, 33-year-old, male driver with a deployed airbag. This occupant was driving a mid-size sedan when he sustained minor injuries in an angled impact with a small pickup truck. The case vehicle was also occupied by a 25-year-old, belted, female, right front passenger with deployed airbags. She sustained serious injuries in the crash. The right rear seat was occupied by an unbelted, 31-year-old, female who was reported with non-incapacitating injuries by police. The crash occurred early evening on a dry, clear roadway which was dark and not lighted. A 2009 Nissan Altima sedan (V1) was traveling northwest on a two-lane, two-way, rural roadway approaching an intersection up a 7% grade. A 1991 Nissan pickup truck (V2) was traveling southwest approaching the same intersection up an 8% grade. Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time. The right plane of V1 was struck by the front of V2 (Event 1). After the initial impact, V1 skidded laterally off the west side of the intersection, striking a stop sign post with its left plane (Event 2). V1 then traveled down and into a ditch, striking the far side of the ditch with its left plane (Event 3) and coming to rest on its left side in the ditch. V2 came to rest in the intersection after the initial impact. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. V1 was occupied by a 33-year-old, male driver. He was belted with an actuated retractor pretensioner. The steering wheel hub airbag deployed while the available left curtain and left outboard seatback airbags did not deploy. This occupant was transported to a local hospital by ground ambulance before being transferred to a trauma center for treatment of minor injuries. The case vehicle was also occupied by a 25-year-old, female, right front passenger. She was belted with an actuated retractor pretensioner. Deployed airbags for her seating position included the front instrument panel, right curtain, and right outboard seatback airbags. She was transported by air to a trauma center for treatment of serious injuries. The right rear seat was occupied by an unbelted, 31-year-old female. The right curtain airbag deployed for her seating position. She sustained non-incapacitating injuries according to police and was transported by ground to a local hospital.