This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 54-year-old female belted driver with deployed front and side airbags. This occupant was driving a compact utility vehicle when she sustained serious injuries in a multi-event crash with an intermediate-size convertible and a guardrail. There were no other occupants in the vehicle at the time of the crash. The crash occurred during late afternoon daylight hours, on a dry, rural, two-lane highway. A 2013 Honda CR-V compact utility vehicle (V1) was following a 2002 Honda Odyssey minivan (V4), which was following a 2004 Toyota Camry full-size sedan (V3). A 2014 Ford Mustang intermediate-size convertible (V2) was traveling in the opposite direction approaching these three vehicles. The grade on this straight section of road was level. V2 crossed the centerline and struck the left side of V3 with its front plane (Event 1). V3 came to rest on the shoulder. V2 then struck the left side of V4 with its front plane (Event 2). V4 departed the road, struck a guardrail (Event 4), and came to rest back on the road. V2 continued further in the oncoming lane of travel and struck V1 head-on in an offset frontal configuration (Event 3). The impact caused both vehicles to rotate counterclockwise. The right plane of V1 broke through a guardrail (Event 5), and the guardrail debris then scraped the back plane of V1 (Event 6). V1 came to rest on the east roadside while V2 came to rest in the road. V1, V2, and V4 were towed due to damage. V3 was driven from the scene. V1 was operated by a 54-year-old female driver. She was wearing the available lap and shoulder belt as evidenced by 20 cm of payout scuffing to the shoulder belt. The retractor pretensioner was not actuated in the crash. This vehicle was not equipped with either buckle or anchor pretensioners. The steering wheel hub, left outboard seatback, and left curtain airbags were deployed. The available right instrument panel, right outboard seat back, and right curtain airbags were not deployed. This occupant was transported to a local trauma center by air for treatment of serious injuries.