This far side crash case involves an 18 year old restrained female driver with no deployed air bags who sustained moderate injuries. This crash also involves an 18 year old restrained female seated in the front right seating position (near side) with deployed side door mounted and roof side rail mounted air bags. This case occupant sustained serious injuries in the crash. The crash occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) in wet and rainy weather. The collision occurred on a bituminous, level roadway with three westbound lanes and two eastbound lanes, each with outside shoulders. The westbound and eastbound travel lanes are seperated by an 11 meter grass median and at the point of impact there is a crossover lane connecting the two roadways together. It should be noted at the time of the crash the crossover was closed with proper signage. The case vehicle (V1) a 2001 four-door BMW 330i was being driven westbound in the left lane and vehicle two (V2) a 2004 four-door Chevrolet TrailBlazer was being driven eastbound in the left travel lane. The crash occurred when V1 became lost and attempted to execute a u-turn at a closed crossover but was unable to negotiate and traveled off the edge of the crossover into the grass impacting a post with its right side. V1 continued on traveling in a southwest direction entering the eastbound travel lane where it was impacted on the right side by the front of V2. After impact, V1 began to rotate counter clockwise and side slapped its right side with the left side of V2. V1 then continued on in a easterly direction traveling to its final resting position off the road edge, 28 meters from point of impact with V2. After initial impact, V2 traveled in a south easterly direction coming to final rest off the eastbound road edge facing west. V1 and V2 were both towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V1 was driven by the 18 year old female case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (buckle type pretensioner did actuate). The available steering wheel mounted air bag, Door mounted air bag and the side curtain air bag did not deployed as a result of the impact. This case occupant's seat was positioned between middle and rear most track position and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The seat back was minimally deformed (twisted) due to the extensive intrusion from the passenger door, passenger seat and center console intruding into it. The front right 18 year old female case occupant was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (buckle type pretensioner did actuate) and the available bottom mounted instrument panel passenger air bag did not deployed as a result of the impact. The front right passengers door mounted air bag and the roof side rail curtain air bag did deploy as a result of the crash. This case occupants seat was positioned between middle and rear most and the seat back was in the slightly reclines position. The seat back was deformed rearward due to door and B-pillar intrusion. This case occupant was entrapped in the vehicle by several intruding components such as the door, side panel forward of the A-pillar and sill. Both case occupants had moderate to serious injuries and transported to a level 1 trauma center by helicopter for treatment of their injuries.