This frontal crash case involves a 65 year old restrained male seated in the front left seating position (Driver) with a deployed air bag who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred during the morning hours (sunny) in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred on a two lane (part of a divided traffic way without a positive barrier) bituminous roadway just north of an intersection. The roadway has a level grade and is divided by a grassy median. The case vehicle (V1) a 2005 four-door Toyota Prius was being driven northbound in the right curb lane. Vehicle #2 (V2) a 2008 two-door Ford F550 Dump truck was being driven northbound directly in front of V1. The crash occurred when V2 began to slow down (just about to a stop) due to a line of traffic stopped in front of him and was impacted in the rear by the front of V1. V1 tried to avoid the crash by braking and steering to the right but was unable to. After initial impact V1 continued on traveling to final rest in the grassy median facing west. After initial impact, V2 traveled forward and came to its final resting position also in the grassy median facing north. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V2 was driven from the scene with only minor damages to the rear bumper area. V1 was driven by the 65 year old male case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed as a result of the impact. The available seat back mounted air bag and the roof side rail mounted air bags did not deploy as a result of the crash. This case occupants seat was positioned at the rear most track position and the seat back was in the slightly reclines position. The front of the driver's seat cushion was deformed downward (vertically) 6 cm due to occupant loading. The case occupant was seriously injured and transported to a local level 1 trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of his injuries.