This frontal crash (with rollover) case involves a 43 year old restrained female driver with deployed air bag who sustained serious injury. The crash occurred during the night time (dark with no street lights) in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred on a four lane bituminous, roadway within the confines of an interchange. The roadway is level and the northbound and southbound lanes are divided by a concrete divider. There is also a roadway, within the gore that controls traffic flow for vehicles entering and exiting the ramps within the interchange, that is divided by a raised curb (in part of this area ) and a concrete barrier (in other areas). The case vehicle (V1), a 2010 5-door Toyota RAV4, was being driven northbound. It should be noted this vehicle was equipped with hand controls (for the Brake pedal and the accelerator) for the driver due to the driver having bilateral prosthetic legs. The crash occurred when V1 was traveling northbound in the right center lane (third lane from the left) and a passenger in the 2nd row left seating position, grabbed the steering wheel and directed V1 to the left, where it impacted the front left bumper with the concrete divider. After initial impact V1 traveled up the barrier and rolled over (right side leading) four quarter turns traveling to final rest on its wheels facing westbound. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. V1 was driven by the 43 year old female case occupant who was restrained by the 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner did actuate). The available roof side rail, head curtain air bag deployed as a result of the impact. The steering wheel mounted air bag and the seat back mounted air bag did not deploy as a result of the crash. There was a 14 year old female occupant in the right front seating position who was restrained by the 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt (retractor type pretensioner did actuate). The passenger frontal air bag and the seat back mounted air bag did not deploy as a result of the crash. The available roof side rail, head curtain air bag did deploy as a result of the impact. There was also a 41 year old male occupant in the 2nd row, left seating position that was unrestrained. The available roof side rail, head curtain air bag did deploy as a result of the crash. The case occupant was seriously injured and transported to a local trauma center by ground. The front right occupant was transported and released from a local hospital. The 2nd row left occupant was not injured in the crash.