This frontal crash case involves a 33 year old restrained male (first case occupant) seated in the front left seating position (Driver) with deployed air bags who sustained severe injuries. This frontal crash case also involves a 25 year old restrained female (second case occupant) seated in the front right passenger seat with deployed air bags who sustained severe injuries. The crash occurred during the evening hours in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred on a two lane bituminous roadway basically straight in origin and without any intersection or traffic control device. There was no evidence of pre impact braking from either vehicle. The case vehicle (V1), a 2006 three-door Scion TC, was being driven northbound and vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Dodge Grand Caravan, was being driven southbound. The crash occurred when V1, for unknown reasons crossed over the double yellow line and impacted its front with the front of V2. After initial impact, V1 rotated counter clockwise 45 degrees before traveling to its final resting position in the middle of the roadway facing northwest. V2 rotated clockwise 20 degrees before traveling to its final resting position partially off the southbound road edge facing south. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V1 was driven by the 33 year old male (first case occupant) who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag and the knee bolster air bag both deployed as a result of the impact. This case occupant's seat was positioned between middle and rear most and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The first case occupant was severely injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by helicopter for treatment of his injuries. There was also a 25 year old female (second case occupant) front right seat occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available instrument panel air bag deployed as a result of the impact. This case occupant's seat was positioned at middle and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The second case occupant was severely injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by helicopter for treatment of her injuries. There was an 8 year old female (non-case occupant) who was located in the 2nd row right seating position. This occupant was restrained by the lap portion of the available 3-point manual belt and there was no air bag available for this seating position. This occupant was severely injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by helicopter for treatment of her injuries.