This frontal crash case involves a 54 year old unrestrained male seated in the front left seating position (Driver) with deployed air bag who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred during the late night hours (dark, with no lights) in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred on a level, bituminous divided five-lane roadway that has three straight travel lanes with separate left and right turn lanes. The westbound lanes and the eastbound lanes are separated by an unprotected median. The crash scene was located approximately 70 yards east of an intersection. The case vehicle (V1) a 2006 four-door Acura TL was being driven westbound in the far right straight lane of travel and Vehicle two (V2) a 2002 four-door GMC Envoy was also being driven westbound directly in front of V1. There were two other non-tow vehicles that were involved in the crash but did not come into contact with our case vehicle. Vehicle three (V3), a 2010 four-door Land Rover and Vehicle four (V4), a 2003 four-door Nissan Sentra, were also traveling westbound in front of V2. The crash occurred when V4, V3 and V2 began to decelerate due to traffic signal turning to red for their direction. V1, which was traveling behind V2 impacted the back of V2. This caused V2's front to impact with V3's back. V3 was then pushed forward impacting its front with the back of V4. After initial impact, V1 traveled slightly forward and to the right before traveling to its final resting position on the roadway. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash and V3 and V4 were driven from the scene due to minor damage. V1 was driven by the 54 year old male case occupant who was unrestrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner did not fire). The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed as a result of the impact. The available side seat back mounted air bag and the roof side rail mounted curtain air bag did not deployed as a result of the impact. This case occupants seat was positioned between middle and rear most and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The case occupant was seriously injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of his injuries.