This nearside crash case involves a 27 year old restrained female driver with deployed air bags who sustained serious injury. The crash occurred during the nighttime hours (dark but, lighted roadway) in wet and raining weather conditions. The collision occurred at an intersection of two roadways that were located within an interchange. At the crash location, there are three northbound lanes (two travel, one right turn) divided by a positive divider with three southbound lanes (two travel , one left turn) controlled by traffic control device. This roadway is intersected by a one lane, one way HOV lane (high-occupancy vehicle lane) that is regulated by traffic control devices. This lane changes its direction from a westbound (off-ramp) travel lane to an eastbound (on-ramp) travel lane depending on the time of the day. The case vehicle (V1) a 2011 four door Kia Sorento was being driven westbound and vehicle two (V2) a 2010 four door Hyundai Elantra was being driven southbound. The crash occurred when V1 entered the intersection to execute a left turn (to travel southbound) and was impacted on the left side by the front of V2 who was traveling northbound in the left travel lane. After initial impact V1 and V2 rotated CCW before coming to a final rest in the middle of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage. V1 was driven by the 27 year old female case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor pretensioner actuated). There were three available air bags for this occupant's seating position, steering wheel mounted air bag, seat back mounted torso air bag and roof side rail curtain air bag. The seat back mounted torso air bag and the roof side rail curtain air bag both deployed as a result of the impact. The case occupant was seriously injured and transported to a local trauma center by ambulance. There was also a 26 year old front right passenger who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor pretensioner actuated). There were three available air bags for this occupant's seating position, front passenger IP mounted air bag, seat back mounted torso air bag and a roof side rail curtain air bag. The seat back mounted torso air bag was the only air bag to deploy as a result of the impact. This occupant received minor injuries and was treated and released from a local trauma center.