This frontal crash case involves a 73 year old restrained female seated in the front left seating position (Driver) with a deployed steering wheel mounted air bag who sustained critical injuries. The crash occurred in the morning hours (daylight) in dry and clear weather within the confines of an intersection. There are two level bituminous northbound travel lanes and one left turn lane (separated by a double yellow line) and two level bituminous southbound bituminous travel lanes. The North and South travel lanes are intersected by two East/West travel lanes. On the West side of the intersection, there are two bituminous travel lanes one in each direction and on the East side of the intersection there are also two travel lanes (one in each direction). This intersection is controlled by a traffic light in all directions. The posted speed limit for the North/South roadway is 35 mph (56 kmph) and for the East/West roadway is 35 mph (56 kmph). The case vehicle (V1), a 2005 five-door Subaru Outback, was being driven northbound in the left lane and vehicle two (V2), a 2009 four-door Honda Accord was being driven northbound in the left lane (in front of V1). Vehicle #1 was traveling northbound and as it entered the intersection it impacted the rear bumper of V2 with its front bumper. After the initial crash, V2 began to move its vehicle to the right lane (to exchange information) when V1 passed V2 at a high rate of speed (on left side). V1 then crossed the median and over both southbound lanes and jumped a curb along the west edge of the original roadway, crossed a second grass seperator. V1 then crossed a second N-S roadway, jumped the curb, crossed the sidewalk and then hit a brick wall. This was V1's final resting position against the wall facing northwest. The driver of V2 stated that after initial impact, V1 passed her vehicle on the left side at a high rate of speed and V1's horn was blowing. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V1 was driven by the 73 year old female case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed as a result of the crash. This case occupant's seat track was positioned between forward most and middle and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The case occupant was critically injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of her injuries.