This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 51 year old male driver of a 2014 Chevrolet Silverado extended cab 4x4 pickup truck. The Chevrolet pickup (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions, side air bags for the front outboard seating positions, and curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions. The driver frontal air bag and left/right curtain air bags deployed as a result of a head-on collision with a 2013 Toyota Tundra SR5 Crew Cab 4x4 pickup truck (Vehicle 2). The investigation also focused on the performance of the supplemental restraint system, and relatively minor injury sustained by the restrained 55 year old male driver of Vehicle 2. The 2013 Toyota Tundra SR5 Crew Cab 4x4 pickup truck was equipped with frontal air bags and knee bolster air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of the head-on collision with Vehicle 1. The Toyota was also equipped with side air bags for the front outboard seating positions, and curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions (non-deployed). Vehicle 1 was westbound on a (level) multi-lane divided trafficway and proceeding straight on the inboard travel lane. The east/westbound lanes were divided by a raised (curbed) grass median. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 45 mph (72 km/h). Vehicles 2 and 3 were eastbound on the same roadway and proceeding straight in the center travel lane. The driver allowed Vehicle 1 to cross the median into the eastbound travel lanes, and into the path of Vehicles 2 and 3. Upon recognition of the impending harmful event, the driver of Vehicle 2 braked in avoidance. As Vehicle 1 entered the eastbound (center) travel lane, the frontal area impacted the frontal area of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Driver pre-impact braking pitched Vehicle 2's front end downward, which allowed the structure above the level of the bumper to engage the undercarriage of Vehicle 1 in an underride configuration. The impact resulted in moderately severe damage to both vehicles. At this point, the back of Vehicle 2 was struck by the frontal area of Vehicle 3, a 2008 Lexus IS 4-door sedan (event 2). This secondary impact resulted in minor damage to Vehicle 2. Vehicle 1 subsequently came to rest straddling the south pavement edge of the road facing southwest. Vehicles 2 and 3 came to rest in close proximity to the secondary point of impact (in the eastbound lanes) facing northeast, and east, respectively. The restrained 51 year old male driver of Vehicle 1 was probably (according to witnesses) slumped over with the seat adjusted to a mid-track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact 1, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, knee bolster, and deployed driver frontal air bag. Pronounced scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks noted across the face of the membrane. It should also be noted that partial compression of the steering column shear capsules were found, indicative of the driver possibly loading through the deployed air bag. No contact evidence was documented on the deployed left curtain air bag. The restrained 55 year old male driver of Vehicle 2 was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, and bracing in anticipation of the impending harmful event. The driver's arms were fully extended with his hands gripping the steering wheel rim in a rigid fashion. His right leg was also extended with the right foot placed on the brake pedal with a full application. The driver's seat was adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact 1, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, deployed knee bolster air bag, and deployed frontal air bag. Interaction with the deployed air bags was evidenced by the scuff marks identified on the face of each membrane. In addition, light colored scuff marks were documented on the left knee bolster (behind the deployed air bag), indicative of membrane compression against this component. It should also be noted that complete compression of the column shear capsules was found, along with minor deformation to the upper portion of the steering wheel rim. The brake pedal was noted to be mashed to the floor, with the adjacent accelerator pedal found displaced in an upward direction. This contact pattern suggested probable pre-impact bracing by the driver. At impact 2 (with Vehicle 3), the driver kinematic was re-directed rearward in response to the 6 o'clock impact force. However, this impact was minor in nature as no contact evidence was attributed to this event. Following the crash, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injuries. The restrained 55 year old male driver, and (unknown age) restrained female front right passenger of Vehicle 2 were transported to a nearby trauma center. Both occupants of Vehicle 2 were treated for minor injuries and released. Vehicles 1, 2, and 3 were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.