This frontal (angled) crash case involves a 63 year old restrained male seated in the front left seating position (driver) with a deployed steering wheel mounted air bag who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred in the evening hours (dark but lighted) in wet and raining weather south of an intersection. There are two bituminous southbound travel lanes (roadway curves to the left after intersection) and four northbound bituminous travel lanes (two straight lanes, a left turn, and a right turn lane that curve to the right). The North and South travel lanes are separated by a raised curb and the south roadway has a -2 ½ % grade. The posted speed limit for the North/South roadway is 45 mph (72 kmph). The case vehicle (V1), a 2005 four-door Cadillac CTS, was being driven southbound. Vehicle two (V2), a 1992 four-door Honda Accord, was being driven northbound. Vehicle #1 was traveling southbound in the right straight lane and Vehicle #2 was traveling northbound in the left lane. As V2 exited a left curve, it traveled up and over a raised median and into the right southbound travel lane. With V2 in V1's travel lane the driver of V1 tried to brake and steer to the left but impacted its front bumper with V2's front bumper. After initial impact,V1 (rotating counter clockwise) impacted its right side with V2's left side before traveling up and over the raised median and off the North roadway before traveling to its final resting position off the roadway facing southeast. After initial impact, V2 rotated clockwise, side slapping with V1 before traveling backwards in a 360 degree rotation before traveling to final rest just south of the initial point of impact facing North. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V1 was driven by the 63 year old male case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (buckle pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed in the crash but the seat back mounted and roof side rail air bags did not deploy. This case occupant's seat track was positioned at full back and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The pelvis support for the driver's seating position was constructed of foam (entire), spring (middle), and plastic. The thigh support was constructed of foam and plastic. The plastic for both the thigh and the pelvis support was cracked from occupant loading. The case occupant was seriously injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of his injuries.