This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 52 year old male driver of a 2012 Acura TL 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags and (seatback mounted) side air bags for the front outboard seating positions along with curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions. The driver frontal air bag, left front side air bag, and left/right curtain air bags deployed during a moderate severity multiple impact crash scenario with a 2000 Mazda 626 4-door sedan (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred on a 4-lane divided urban roadway which curved right (with a positive grade) for southbound traffic. The North/southbound travel lanes were divided by a grass median. It was daylight, with rainy weather conditions as the roads were wet. The speed limit at the crash site was 45 mph (72 km/h). Vehicle 3 (a 2010 Lexus RX350 sport utility) and Vehicle 1 were southbound on the inboard travel lane and negotiating a right curve, respectively. Vehicle 2 was northbound in the outboard travel lane and negotiating a left curve. Vehicle 2 reached the apex of the downhill curve and broke traction on the wet road surface. Vehicle 2 began rotating counterclockwise and traversed the northbound lanes towards the center median. Vehicle 2 crossed the center median, and subsequently entered the southbound lanes into the path of Vehicles 3 and 1. As Vehicle 2 entered the southbound (inboard) travel lane, the frontal area impacted the left side surface of Vehicle 3 (event 1). The initial impact compounded Vehicle 2's counterclockwise rotation along its trajectory into the path of the southbound (trailing) Acura. At this point, the frontal area of Vehicle 1 struck the right side surface of Vehicle 2 (event 2). This secondary impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1, and severe damage to Vehicle 2. The impact configuration allowed Vehicle 2 to continue its counterclockwise rotation as the right rear side surface impacted the left side surface of Vehicle 1 (event 3). The impact resulted in moderate damage to both vehicles. Vehicle 2 was re-directed back into the northbound travel lanes where it came to rest facing southeast. Vehicle 1 was re-directed towards the southwest and departed the west pavement edge where the left side surface struck the face of a W-beam guardrail (event 4). The guardrail impact resulted in additional moderate (overlapping) damage to the left side surface of Vehicle 1. Vehicle 1 came to rest against the struck guardrail facing northwest. Vehicle 3 came to rest in close proximity to the initial point of impact (in the southbound inboard travel lane) facing southeast. The restrained 52 year old male driver of Vehicle 1 was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a full rearward track position. Restraint usage was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the webbing of the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At event 2, the driver initiated a forward and slightly lateral trajectory in response to the 11 o'clock impact force. At event 3, the driver was re-directed to the left in response to the 9 o'clock impact force. This occupant kinematics to the left was further compounded by the 9 o'clock impact force resulting from event 4 (W-beam guardrail). It was unknown if deployment of Vehicle 1's (seat back mounted) left front side air bag and left curtain air bag was triggered by the second, (more probable) third, or fourth event; however, certain contact with the deployed curtain air bag was evidenced by the scuff mark documented on the inboard surface of this component. Following the crash, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injury. All three vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.