This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 28 year old female driver of a 2006 Honda Civic EX 2-door coupe. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), seat back mounted side air bags (for the front outboard seating positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver frontal air bag, left/right side air bags, and left/right curtain air bags deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a 2007 Mercedes Benz GL450 4-door sport utility (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred in the eastbound lane of an east/west two-lane rural roadway. The asphalt road was level and curved left for westbound traffic. It was daylight, with snowy weather conditions as the road was reported by police to be slick. The speed limit at the crash site was 45 mph (72 km/h). Vehicle 1 was westbound and negotiating a left curve when the windshield became blanketed in snow from an eastbound snow plow, which obstructed the driver's vision. Subsequent steering maneuvers by the driver re-directed Vehicle 1 into the path of the eastbound Mercedes Benz in a counterclockwise rotation. Upon recognition of the impending harmful event, the driver of Vehicle 2 steered right in avoidance. As Vehicle 1 crossed the eastbound travel lane, the front right area impacted the front left area of Vehicle 2 (event 1). The impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1, and compounded the counterclockwise rotation as it rebounded to final rest (back onto) the westbound travel lane facing southwest. At this point, Vehicle 2 departed the right (south) pavement edge as the frontal area subsequently struck a ditch (event 2) and adjacent tree (event 3) where it came to rest facing southeast. Following the collision, the restrained 28 year old female driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injury. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.