This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 50 year old male driver of a 2009 Ford Escape XLS 4-door sport utility vehicle. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal air bag deployed as a result of an offset frontal impact with a large diameter tree. The case vehicle was also equipped with seat back mounted side air bags for the front seating positions, and curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions (non-deployed). Vehicle 1 was northbound on a two-lane rural roadway on approach to a left curve. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. The speed limit at the crash site was 55 mph (89 km/h). A hillcrest was located just south of the crash site, within the straightaway. As Vehicle 1 reached the apex of the curve, the driver allowed it to depart the right (east) pavement edge and continue in a forward tracking mode. The front right area of Vehicle 1 subsequently impacted a large diameter tree resulting in severe damage. At this point, the vehicle rotated clockwise and came to rest against the struck tree facing northeast. The restrained 50 year old male driver of the 2009 Ford Escape was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a full rearward track position. Restraint usage was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, knee bolster, and deployed frontal air bag. Pronounced indentations and scuff marks were identified on the knee bolster, with pocketing noted on this component extending into the lower console panel. This contact pattern was attributed to right lower extremity engagement. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. Deformation found on the upper and left sections of the steering wheel rim was indicative of possible driver loading through the deployed air bag. It should also be noted that the steering wheel rim separated from the column mount, with full compression of the column shear capsules identified. Cratering was documented on the driver seat cushion, as the underlying spring basket support was also deformed. Scratches and armrest displacement on the center console suggested driver right flank contact during the rebound phase of the occupant kinematic. Following the crash, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.