This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 67 year old male driver of a 2010 GMC Yukon XL Denali 4-door sport utility. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags/seat back mounted side air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions, and curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions. The driver frontal air bag and left curtain air bag deployed during a multi-event crash scenario (events 1-4). The crash occurred off of the south pavement edge of a two-lane east/west rural roadway. The (level) asphalt surfaced roadway was bordered to the north and south by stands of trees, with a pronounced rock wall surrounding the wooded area to the south. The road curved left for eastbound vehicles, and was located on the west end of an "S" curve. There were no traffic controls present. The speed limit at the crash site was 89 km/h (55 mph). It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. The case vehicle was initially eastbound on a straightaway when it entered a left curve. As Vehicle 1 reached the apex of the curve, the driver allowed it to depart the south pavement edge and continue in an easterly direction in a forward tracking mode. Vehicle 1 subsequently entered a wooded area as the front right area impacted a large diameter tree, which resulted in moderate damage (event 1). The left rear side surface sideswiped an adjacent large diameter tree resulting in moderate damage (event 2). The front left area then struck a third large diameter tree resulting in additional overlapping moderate damage (event 3). At this point, the front right area impacted a large boulder which was part of a larger rock wall (event 4). This final event resulted in (overlapping) severe damage. The case vehicle came to rest in close proximity to the final impact location facing east. The restrained 67 year old male driver of the 2010 GMC Yukon was presumed to be in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact 1, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force. Following the collision, the restrained driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injury. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.