This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 17 year old female seated in the front right seating position with a deployed frontal, seat back mounted and curtain air bags who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred in the afternoon hours in dry and clear weather within the confines of a 4-legged intersection. The asphalt (level) north/south traffic way consisted of two lanes (one north/one south). The north/south traffic way is intersected by asphalt east/west travel lanes consisting of three eastbound lanes with a greater 2% negative slope (two straight and one right turn lane) and three westbound travel lanes (two straight and one right turn lane). Both travel lanes are separated by a double yellow line. There were traffic control devices (stop sign) for the north/south travel directions. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 35 mph (56 km/h) for the west/east travel direction and 25 mph (40 km/h). The case vehicle (V1), a 2012 four-door Nissan Sentra was being driven southbound attempting to crossover and travel through the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Nissan Titan pickup truck, was traveling eastbound in the straight inboard lane. Vehicle #1 was traveling southbound and Vehicle #2 was traveling eastbound. As both vehicles entered the intersection, the front of V2 impacted the right side of V1. After initial impact V1 rotated clockwise as it traveled to the southeast quadrant of the intersection impacting the curb with its left rear tire before traveling off the roadway to its final resting position. V2 rotated clockwise as it traveled to the southeast quadrant and traveled off the road edge to its final resting position just east of V1. V1 and V2 were both towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V1 was driven by a 17 year old female non-case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt. The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed in the crash at this seating position. This non-case occupant's seat track was positioned at between middle and full back and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. This occupant was moderately injured and transported to a local hospital but later released. There was a 17 year old female case occupant seated in the front right who was restrained by the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt. The available IP, seat back mounted, and side curtain air bags all deployed as a result of the right side impact. This case occupant's seat track was positioned at between middle and full back and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The case occupant was seriously injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by air for treatment of her injuries.