This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 23 year old female driver of a 2007 Jeep Liberty 4x4 sport utility. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions (non-deployed). The case vehicle sustained severe top damage as a result of a non-horizontal impact with a stand of trees. The crash occurred off the north pavement edge of an east/west two-lane (asphalt) rural roadway. West of the crash site, the roadway curved right (with an uphill grade) for eastbound vehicles. The roadway crested within the apex of the curve, which transitioned into a (eastbound) straightaway along a downhill slope. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 55 mph (89 km/h). It was dark; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. There was no traffic control present at the scene. Vehicle 1 was eastbound and negotiating the right curve when the driver allowed it to depart the left (north) pavement edge and enter a wooded ravine. At this point, the vehicle was tipped forward and to the left by the steep drop off as the left side surface impacted a large diameter tree (event 1). The impact resulted in severe damage. The top surface of the vehicle subsequently struck an adjacent large diameter tree resulting in additional severe and overlapping damage (event 2). Vehicle 1 came to rest at the point of final impact (off the north pavement edge of the roadway) facing southeast. The restrained 23 year old female driver of the 2007 Jeep Liberty was presumed to be in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact 1, the driver initiated an upward and lateral trajectory in response to the non-horizontal impact force. Significant reduction in the occupant space may have also produced an entrapment mechanism and/or restricted proper driver egress from the vehicle. Following the collision, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injury. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.