This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 62 year old female driver of a 2012 Toyota Camry SE 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags/knee bolster air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), and seat back mounted side air bags/curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver/passenger frontal air bags, driver/passenger knee bolster air bags, and left/right curtain air bags deployed as a result of a rear-end collision with a 1999 Mercedes-Benz CLK 320 convertible (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred on a (concrete surfaced) bridge in the southbound inboard travel lane of a multi-lane north/south interstate trafficway. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 89 km/h (55 mph). Traffic control consisted of overhead signals to warn and/or stop vehicles when the drawbridge is in operation. Southbound vehicles transitioned from an uphill to a level surface grade upon reaching the bridge crest. Vehicle 1 was initially southbound and proceeding straight when the driver failed to observe traffic slowing (i.e. congestion) ahead. The front right area of Vehicle 1 impacted the back left area of Vehicle 2 (event 1). The impact resulted in severe damage to Vehicle 1. The first event produced a secondary (chain) collision as the frontal area of Vehicle 2 subsequently struck the back area of Vehicle 3, a 2013 Hyundai Elantra GLS 4-door sedan (event 2). All three vehicles came to rest in close proximity to their respective point of impact in the southbound inboard travel lane facing south. The unrestrained 62 year old female driver of the 2012 Toyota Camry SE was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-forward track position. However, interior physical evidence suggested that the driver may have been out-of-position (i.e. abnormally postured) turned and/or slightly leaning to the right prior to the crash. The lack of restraint use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, relative to the extent of occupant contacts identified across frontal components. At impact, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock direction of force. It should also be noted that full compression of the steering column shear capsules was found. Following the collision, the unrestrained 62 year old female driver, restrained 29 year old female front right passenger, and unrestrained 22 year old female rear right passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported to a nearby trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was admitted for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the crash as the two passengers were treated and released. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed from the crash site due to police reported disabling damage. Vehicle 3 was driven from the scene.