This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 54 year old female driver of a 2013 Toyota Corolla LE 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags/side air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions) and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver/passenger frontal air bags and left/right curtain air bags deployed as a result of a multi-event crash envelope with a 2005 Chevrolet Express G3500 cargo van (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred at a 4-leg intersection between a state highway and an interstate off/on ramp. The north/south roadway consisted of two level (asphalt) travel lanes which curved left for northbound vehicles just south of the intersection. The north/south roadway was bordered to the east and west by thick wooded areas, providing limited sight distance for through traffic. The interstate off-ramp consisted of one (concrete) travel lane which curved left (with an uphill grade) for vehicles exiting the eastbound interstate roadway. The slope for this interstate off-ramp crested at the 4-leg intersection. Traffic control at the 4-leg intersection consisted of stop signs for vehicles exiting the eastbound interstate roadway. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 45 mph (72 km/h). Vehicle 1 was northbound and exited the left curve into the straightaway on approach to the 4-leg intersection. Vehicle 2 was eastbound on the interstate off-ramp and negotiating a left curve. Vehicle 2 entered the 4-leg intersection to proceed straight, across the path of the northbound Toyota. Upon recognition of the impending harmful event, the driver of Vehicle 1 steered right and braked in avoidance of Vehicle 2. Vehicle 1 remained in its original travel lane. The right side surface of Vehicle 2 was subsequently impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 1 (event 1). The impact resulted in severe damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, both vehicles were re-directed towards the northeast sector of the intersection. Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise, as Vehicle 2 rotated counterclockwise. The right rear side surface of Vehicle 2 struck the left rear side surface of Vehicle 1 (event 2). This secondary "sideslap" impact resulted in additional moderate damage to Vehicle 1. Vehicle 1 came to rest straddling the east edge line facing northeast. Vehicle 2 came to rest on the adjacent earthen embankment also facing northeast. The restrained 54 year old female driver of the 2013 Toyota Corolla was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact 1, the driver initiated a forward (and lateral) trajectory in response to the 11 o'clock impact force. At impact 2, the driver (now out-of-position) kinematic was re-directed to the left in response to the 9 o'clock impact force. Following the collision, the restrained 54 year old female driver and restrained 19 year old female front right passenger of Vehicle 1 were taken to a nearby trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was admitted for further treatment of serious injury sustained in the crash. The front right passenger of Vehicle 1 was treated and released. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.