This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 54 year old female driver of a 2011 Ford Taurus SEL 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal/seat back mounted side air bags (for the driver and front right seating positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver frontal air bag deployed as a result of a rear-end collision with a 2006 Ford Econoline 250 series cargo van (Vehicle 2 - event 1). The crash occurred within the east leg of an urban 4-leg intersection. The asphalt surfaced east/west trafficway was divided by a large grass median. The eastern leg of the westbound roadway consisted of 5 travel lanes which crested in the vicinity of the first event (Vehicle 1 vs. Vehicle 2). The western leg of the eastbound roadway consisted of 6 travel lanes with an uphill grade in the vicinity of the second event (Vehicle 1 vs. Vehicle 3). Traffic control through the intersection consisted of overhead tri-lights. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 50 mph (80 km/h). Vehicle 1 was westbound in the center through lane and proceeding straight on approach to the 4-leg intersection when the driver failed to observe traffic (congestion) stopped ahead. The frontal area of Vehicle 1 subsequently impacted the back area of Vehicle 2, which was stopped in the same travel lane ahead (event 1). The impact resulted in severe damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, Vehicle 1 began a post-impact trajectory to the southwest and traversed the center median towards the eastbound roadway. Vehicle 1 continued this trajectory into the eastbound travel lanes and across the path of Vehicle 3. Vehicle 3, a 2010 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was initially eastbound on the inboard through lane proceeding straight. The front left area of Vehicle 1 struck the left side surface of Vehicle 3 resulting in minor damage (event 2). Additional driver steering inputs re-directed Vehicle 1 to the northwest and back across the center median and westbound roadway. Vehicle 1 departed the north pavement edge and traversed an open field into a drainage canal. Vehicle 1's undercarriage impacted a concrete culvert which resulted in minor damage (event 3). Vehicle 1 came to rest in the drainage canal (off the north pavement edge of the westbound roadway) facing northwest. Vehicle 2 came to rest in the center median (off the south pavement edge of the westbound roadway/eastern leg of the intersection) facing southwest. Vehicle 3 came to rest in the eastbound outboard lane (within the east leg of the intersection) facing southeast. The restrained 54 year old female driver of the 2011 Ford Taurus was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-forward track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact 1, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force. The second and third events were minor in nature and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the driver. Following the collision, the restrained driver of Vehicle 1 was observed by police attempting to drive out of the drainage canal (engine was still operational), but was unsuccessful navigating the surrounding slope and limited in motion by (vehicle) impact damage. The driver of Vehicle 1 was subsequently transported to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injury. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed from the crash site due to police reported disabling damage. Vehicle 3 was driven from the scene.