This case involves a 45-year-old female driver who was 170 centimeters (5'7") tall and weighing 130 kilograms (287 pounds). The case occupant was driving a 2011 Subaru Outback station wagon involved in a severe near side crash with a tree. The principal direction of force was 11 o'clock. The case occupant was properly restrained with a 3-point manual belt and had a frontal, side curtain, and seat back air bags, all of which deployed as a result of the crash. On impact, the occupant moved forward and outboard in relationship to the vehicle, as evidenced by contacts on the driver's door and the knee bolster. The case occupant sustained a multitude of complex injuries from the crash resulting in her death. The right subarachnoid hemorrhage appeared to be a contra-coup injury probably from impact to the left side of the head to the A-pillar or possibly the left instrument panel. This mechanism was supported by soft tissue swelling on the left side of the head. The mesenteric tear, diaphragm rupture, and bowel contusions were probably attributed to rapid compression of the abdomen by the seatbelt or possibly from the steering wheel assembly. The right humeral shaft fracture was probably due to impact with the steering wheel or possibly the center instrument panel, consistent with the driver's motion during the impact. The right radial styloid fracture was attributed to impact possibly with the center instrument panel or the windshield. Outboard movement of the driver and intrusion of the door caused impact of the front upper quadrant of the left front door with the driver's torso and forearm. This impact probably caused the fracture of the left 7-10th ribs and possibly the left ulna fracture. The left patella and left distal femur fractures were certainly attributed to the knee bolster. The left intertrochanteric fracture was probably due to a combination of loading of the knee with the knee bolster and impact of the hip with the left door panel. The right proximal tibia and pilon fractures were certainly felt to be due to a nutcracker mechanism due to compression from the knee bolster and toe pan.