This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 27 year old male seated in the front left seating position (driver) with deployed frontal, seat back, and side curtain air bags, who sustained moderate injuries. The crash occurred in the morning (daylight) in dry and clear weather within the confines of a 3-legged intersection. The asphalt north/south lanes consisted of two northbound lanes (one straight and one right turn) that curved to the left and one southbound lane. Both of the north/south lanes were separated by a double yellow line. The third leg (located on the east side) of the intersection consists of one west and one east level asphalt travel lane. At the point of impact, V1 has a negative slope while V2 & V3 has a positive slope. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 35 mph (56 km/h). The case vehicle (V1), a 2005 four-door Honda Accord, was being driven northbound. Vehicle two (V2), a 2012 four-door Chevrolet Cruze, was traveling southbound. Vehicle three (V3), a 2011 two-door BMW 328i, was traveling southbound behind V2 in the straight lane. Just before V1 entered the 3-legged intersection (curve to the left) it began to cross over the double yellow line impacting its front left with the left side of V2. After initial impact V1 continued on into the southbound lane and impacted its front bumper with the front of V3. V1 then rotated counter clockwise 90 degrees before traveling to its final resting position in the northeast quadrant of the intersection facing west. After initial impact, V3 rotated counter clockwise (approximately 45 degrees) before traveling to its final resting position partially off the road edge facing east. V1 and V3 were both towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V2 was driven from the scene with a police reported $500 damage repair cost. V1 was driven by a 27 year old male case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt. The available frontal, seat back, and side curtain mounted air bags deployed as a result of the frontal crash. This case occupant's seat track was positioned at rear most and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The case occupant was moderately injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by ground transportation for treatment of his injuries.