This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 45 year old female driver of a 2015 Mercedes-Benz C300 4matic 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags, knee bolster air bags driver only), seat back mounted side air bags (for the driver/front right passenger positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver frontal air bag and left knee bolster air bag deployed as a result of a rear-end collision with a large utility trailer towed by a 2007 Kenworth T800 straight unit dump truck (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a multi-lane north/south urban trafficway, just north of a 4-leg intersection. The north/south asphalt surfaced (level) travel lanes were divided by a grass median, as the adjacent 4-leg intersection was controlled by overhead tri-lights. The posted speed limit in the vicinity of the crash site was 72 km/h (45 mph). It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 was northbound in the outboard travel lane and passed through the 4-leg intersection to proceed straight. The driver of Vehicle1 failed to observe vehicles stopped ahead (i.e. congestion). Upon recognition of the impending harmful event, the driver of Vehicle 1 braked in avoidance. The frontal area of Vehicle 1 subsequently impacted a large utility trailer towed by Vehicle 2, a 2007 Kenworth T800 heavy duty straight unit commercial dump truck (event 1). The impact resulted in moderate damage to the case vehicle. At this point, the combination of pre-impact braking and height variance allowed the structure above the level of Vehicle 1's bumper to engage the undercarriage of Vehicle 2's cargo trailer in an underride configuration. Vehicle 1 sustained contact with the trailer to final rest (in the outboard travel lane) facing north. The unrestrained 45 year old female driver of the 2015 Mercedes-Benz C300 sedan was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-forward track position. The lack of restraint use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system relative to the extent of occupant contacts documented across vehicle interior components. At impact, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force. Following the collision, the unrestrained driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported via ground to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injury. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site as Vehicle 2 (along with the utility trailer) was driven from the scene.