This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 46 year old female driver of a 2014 Hyundai Santa Fe GLS 4-door all-wheel-drive sport utility. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags, a knee bolster air bag, seat back mounted side air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver frontal air bag, knee bolster air bag, left/right side air bags, and left/right curtain air bags deployed as a result of an oblique angled impact with a 2012 Audi Q5 Premium Plus 4-door all-wheel-drive sport utility (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred at an intersection between a multi-lane north/south state trafficway and local connector. The asphalt surfaced north/south thoroughfare was level and divided by a grass median. North of the crash site, the southbound lanes were straight consisting of 2 through lanes and left/right turn lanes to allow vehicles access to secondary roadways at the crossover junction. The west leg of the intersection consisted of a (asphalt surfaced) level 3-lane east/west roadway. Although the roadway curved right for eastbound (turning) vehicles approaching the crossover junction, it transitioned into a straightaway immediately west of the intersection. Traffic control consisted of a stop sign for eastbound (turning) vehicles entering the intersection. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 30 mph (48 km/h) for the local connector and 45 mph (72 km/h) for the north/south multi-lane divided trafficway. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 was initially stopped and facing east in the west leg of the intersection, waiting to enter the crossover and turn left to proceed north onto the state trafficway. Vehicle 2 was traveling southbound on the inboard through lane of the state trafficway and proceeding straight on approach to the same intersection. The case vehicle entered the intersection to turn left, across the path of the southbound Audi. As Vehicle 1 crossed the southbound travel lanes, the left front side surface was impacted by the front right area of Vehicle 2 resulting in moderate damage (event 1). At this point, both vehicles were re-directed towards the southeast sector of the intersection. Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise as the left rear side surface subsequently struck the right rear side surface of Vehicle 2 in a "side-slap" configuration. This secondary impact resulted in additional moderate damage to each vehicle. Both vehicles came to rest in the south leg of the intersection (adjacent to the center median) facing southeast. The 46 year old female driver of the 2014 Hyundai Santa Fe was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact 1, the driver initiated a lateral and forward trajectory in response to the 10 o'clock impact force. The secondary "sideslap" event, deemed also of moderate severity, probably compounded any lateral occupant kinematic (i.e. driver loading) into the aforementioned left side components. Following the collision, the restrained 46 year old female driver of the 2014 Hyundai Santa Fe was transported to a local hospital for treatment. The driver was subsequently transferred to a nearby trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injury sustained in the crash. The 9 month old infant passenger of Vehicle 1 (gender unknown), restrained within a rearward facing convertible child safety seat in the second row right seating position, was reportedly uninjured. The infant passenger was transported along with the adult parent to the local hospital; however, the child's treatment status (if any), was not known. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.