This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 42 year old female driver of a 2002 BMW 325Ci convertible. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags and (door mounted) side air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The left front side air bag deployed as a result of an oblique angled collision with a 2016 International Prostar truck-tractor towing one sem-trailer (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred in the westbound lanes of a 3-leg urban ("T") intersection. The north leg of the intersection consisted of 2 southbound (turn) lanes and 1 northbound lane. The east leg of the intersection consisted of 2 westbound lanes (right turn and through lane) and 1 eastbound lane, separated by a wide painted (striped) median. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by overhead tri-lights. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The posted speed limit for north/southbound traffic was 35 mph (56 km/h), and 45 mph (72 km/h) for east/westbound traffic. Vehicle 1 was initially southbound and had entered the intersection to turn left (east) onto the intersecting roadway. Vehicle 2 was westbound on approach to the 3-leg intersection, traveling in the center through lane and proceeding straight. As both vehicles entered the intersection, the left side surface of Vehicle 1 was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2 (event 1). The impact resulted in moderate damage to the case vehicle. At this point, Vehicle 1 rotated sharply counterclockwise as the left front side surface struck the left front wheel of the truck-tractor resulting in minor damage (event 2). Vehicle 1 continued its counterclockwise rotation along its southeasterly trajectory path to final rest, with the front area being contacted by Debris from V2 (event 3) and then the right side impacting the guardrail face (event 4) which resulted in additional minor damage. Vehicle 1 came to rest in the southeast sector of the intersection, facing northeast. Vehicle 2 was driven to final rest in the west sector of the intersection, facing west. The restrained 42 year old female driver of Vehicle 1 was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-forward track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact 1, the driver initiated a lateral trajectory in response to the 9 o'clock impact force. The secondary impact, although minor in nature, may have compounded driver loading into left side interior components, as the remaining events probably produced little if no occupant kinematic response. Following the collision, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported by air to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injury. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage as Vehicle 2 was driven from the scene.