This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 73 year old male driver of a 2012 Subaru Forester Limited sport utility. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags/side air bags (seat back mounted) for the driver and front right passenger positions, and curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions. The left front side air bag and left/right curtain air bags deployed as a result of an oblique angled collision with a 2007 Honda Odyssey minivan (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred within an urban 4-leg intersection. The north/southbound trafficway consisted of 6 asphalt surfaced travel lanes divided by a raised concrete (narrow) median. South of the intersection, the roadway curved left with an uphill grade for northbound vehicles. This roadway transitioned into a level/straight surface upon entering the intersection. The east/west trafficway consisted of 6 asphalt surfaced travel lanes also divided by a raised concrete (narrow) median. This roadway curved left with an uphill grade for eastbound vehicles. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by overhanging tri-lights. The posted speed limit at the crash site for north/southbound traffic was 35 mph (72 km/h), as the speed limit for east/westbound traffic was 40 mph (64 km/h). It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 was initially stopped (on the inboard through lane) and facing north in the south sector of the 4-leg intersection. Vehicle 2 was eastbound in the outboard through lane and proceeding straight towards the 4-leg intersection. Vehicle 1 began to accelerate and entered the intersection to proceed north. As both vehicles entered the intersection, the left side surface of Vehicle 1 was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2 (event 1). The impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, both vehicles were re-directed towards the northeast sector of the intersection. Vehicle 1 traversed the center median along the east/west trafficway, as the left rear side surface struck a U-channel signpost resulting in minor damage (event 2). Vehicle 2 continued in a northeasterly trajectory as the frontal area subsequently impacted the left side surface of Vehicle 3, a 2014 Toyota Sienna minivan that was stopped in the westbound outboard travel lane (event 3). Vehicle 1 came to rest straddling the center median of the east/west trafficway facing northeast. Vehicles 2 and 3 came to rest in close proximity to the final point of impact (in the northeast sector of the intersection) facing northeast and southwest, respectively. The restrained 73 year old male driver of the 2012 Subaru Forester was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a full rearward track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact 1, the driver initiated a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 9 o'clock impact force. Impact 2 was minor in nature, and produced little if no kinematic response from the driver. Following the collision, the restrained 73 year old male driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injury. All 3 involved vehicles were towed from the crash site due to police reported disabling damage.