This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 79 year-old female driver of a 2003 Toyota Avalon XLS 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags/(seatback mounted) side air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. Both frontal air bags and the left front side air bag deployed during a multi-event crash envelope involving a 1999 Honda Accord EX 4-door sedan (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred at a 4-leg rural intersection. The north leg of the 2-lane asphalt surfaced north/south roadway curved right (with an uphill slope) for southbound vehicles approaching the intersection. The west leg of the 2-lane asphalt surfaced east/west roadway curved right (with a downhill slope) for eastbound vehicles approaching the intersection; which transitioned into a straightaway along the east leg. Traffic through the 4-leg intersection was controlled by stop signs for north/southbound vehicles. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 45 mph (72 km/h). It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 was eastbound and negotiating a right curve on approach to the 4-leg intersection. Vehicle 2 was southbound also negotiating a right curve when the driver entered the 4-leg intersection across the path of the eastbound Toyota. As Vehicle 2 crossed the eastbound travel lane, the frontal area impacted the left front side surface of Vehicle 1 (event 1). The impact resulted in moderate damage to the case vehicle, and initiated a counterclockwise rotation as both vehicles began their respective post-impact trajectories towards the southeast sector of the intersection. Vehicle 2's right rear side surface subsequently struck Vehicle 1's left rear side surface in a secondary "sideslap" configuration (event 2). This impact resulted in additional moderate damage to the case vehicle. At this point, Vehicle 1 traversed the south pavement edge and traveled laterally up a steep road side embankment. The combination of rapid/sudden rotation and lateral movement of Vehicle 1's right wheels against the superelevation of the earthen embankment produced a roll moment. This mechanism initiated a 2-quarter turn right side rollover resulting in moderate top damage to the case vehicle (event 3). Both vehicles came to rest in the southeast sector of the intersection. Vehicle 1 came to rest (on its roof) just off of the south pavement edge perpendicular to the east/west roadway facing northeast. Vehicle 2 came to rest parallel to the east/west roadway straddling the south pavement edge facing northwest. The restrained 79 year old female driver of the 2003 Toyota Avalon was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact 1, the driver initiated a lateral and forward trajectory in response to the 10 o'clock direction of force and loaded the left front door interior surface and knee bolster. Pronounced indentations were identified on these components, which were attributed to left pelvic and lower extremity engagement. This contact pattern extended from the door armrest (i.e. door rear lower quadrant) to the door forward lower quadrant and kicker panel area. The accelerator pedal was also noted to be bent right, indicative of probable foot/ankle interaction. Faint dark colored scuff marks were documented across the face of the deployed driver frontal air bag, attributed to possible driver chest contact at some point during the (3 event) collision sequence. The secondary side slap event re-directed the driver kinematic laterally to the left in response to the 9 o'clock impact force, compounding occupant loading of the aforementioned left side components. At this point, the driver kinematic response path was re-directed up and to the right in response to the vehicle's roll moment. Distinct areas of skin tissue, hair strands, and abraded fabric were found on the roof headliner; attributed to occupant head/face contact during the rollover impact (event 3). Following the collision, the restrained 79 year old female driver and restrained (unknown aged) female front right passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local hospital. Although the treatment status of the front right passenger was unknown, the driver of Vehicle 1 was subsequently transferred to a nearby trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injury sustained in the crash. Both vehicles were reported by police as towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.