This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 72 year old female driver of a 2008 Pontiac Grand Prix 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions (non-deployed). The case vehicle sustained moderate damage as a result of an offset frontal collision with a 2008 Ford F-250 Super Duty Crew Cab 4x2 pickup truck (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred in the southbound travel lane of a 2-lane north/south rural roadway. The asphalt surfaced road was level and straight with a posted speed limit of 89 km/h (55 mph). In the vicinity of the crash site, driveways provided access to businesses and private homes. There were no traffic controls present. It was dark; with rainy weather conditions as the road was wet. Vehicle 1 was initially northbound and proceeding straight when the back was struck by a trailing 2010 Hyundai Accent GLS 4-door sedan. The impact resulted in minor damage to Vehicle 1. Following event stabilization, the driver of Vehicle 1 continued north 100 meters (328 feet) in an attempt to exit the travel lanes, stop (park), assess the damage, and possibly call police. At this point, Vehicle 1 attempted to turn left (west) into a business driveway, across the southbound travel lane. As Vehicle 1 crossed the southbound lane, the front right area was impacted by the frontal area of a southbound 2008 Ford F-250 Super Duty Crew Cab 4x2 pickup (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise as both vehicles were re-directed towards the southwest, coming to rest in an empty lot (off the west pavement edge of the road) facing southwest. The restrained 72 year old female driver of the 2008 Pontiac Grand Prix was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact with the Ford pickup truck, the driver initiated a forward and lateral trajectory in response to the 1 o'clock impact force. Following the collision, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported by ground to a nearby trauma center. Air transport was summoned, but unavailable due to weather conditions. The driver of Vehicle 1 was admitted for treatment of serious injury sustained in the crash. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to police reported disabling damage.