This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 29 year old male driver of a 2007 Dodge Ram 1500 series Quad Cab 4x4 pickup truck. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions (non-deployed). The case vehicle sustained moderate damage as a result of a right angle impact with a 2002 Ford F-550 Super Duty cab chassis 4x2 commercial truck (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred at a 4-leg intersection between a multi-lane state trafficway and 2-lane rural roadway. The north/south asphalt surfaced trafficway was divided by a wide grass median. The northbound and southbound roadways each consisted of 2-level through lanes that, within the vicinity of the intersection, branched out into 4-travel lanes (i.e. two additional turn lanes in each direction). The posted speed limit on the north/south trafficway was 60 mph (97 km/h). The east/west roadway consisted of 2-asphalt travel lanes that curved left (with a negative grade) for eastbound vehicles approaching the intersection from the west. The posted speed limit on the 2-lane roadway was 45 mph (72 km/h). Traffic through the intersection was controlled by stop signs for east/westbound vehicles. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 was southbound on the inboard through lane and proceeding straight towards the 4-leg intersection. Vehicle 2 was eastbound and had exited a left curve on approach to the same intersection. Vehicle 2 entered the intersection across the path of the southbound Dodge. As both vehicles entered the intersection, the right side surface of Vehicle 1 was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2 resulting in moderate damage. At this point, Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise and subsequently traversed the center grass median in a southeasterly direction. Vehicle 2 also began a clockwise rotation, and began a post-impact trajectory to the east. The frontal area of Vehicle 2 struck 2 small signposts, which resulted in minor damage (events 2 and 3). Vehicle 1 came to rest (in the southeast sector of the intersection) straddling the west pavement edge of the northbound roadway facing southwest. Vehicle 2 came to rest in a private lot within the east sector of the intersection, facing east. The restrained 29 year old male driver of the 2007 Dodge Ram pickup was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact 1, the driver initiated a lateral and forward trajectory in response to the 2 o'clock impact force. The lack of restraint use by Vehicle 1's front right passenger introduced the probability of occupant-to-occupant contact during the crash sequence. This scenario was further supported by the passenger's police reported final rest position lying across the second row floor area (with the head adjacent to, and behind, the driver seat back). Following the collision, the restrained 29 year old male driver of Vehicle 1 was transported (via ground) to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injury. The unrestrained 77 year old female front right passenger of Vehicle 1 was pronounced deceased at the scene. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.