This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 55 year old female driver of a 2003 GMC Envoy SLT 4-door 4x4 sport utility. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags/seat back mounted side air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions (non-deployed). The case vehicle sustained moderate damage as a result of a narrow end engagement with a parked 2008 Ford F-550 Super Duty Crew Cab 4x4 diesel pickup truck (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred on the west shoulder of a 4-lane north/south divided state trafficway. The asphalt surfaced southbound roadway was level in the vicinity of the crash site, with a hillcrest located to the north. There were no traffic controls present. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 60 mph (97 km/h). It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 was initially southbound in the outboard travel lane and proceeding straight when the driver allowed it to (partially) depart the west road edge. The front right area of Vehicle 1 subsequently struck the trailer portion of a parked 2008 Ford F-550 Super Duty Crew Cab pickup truck, which resulted in moderate damage (event 1). At this point, the front right area of Vehicle 1 impacted the left side surface of the parked Ford pickup resulting in additional overlapping moderate damage (event 2). The case vehicle began to rotate clockwise and was re-directed on a post-impact trajectory towards the southeast. Rotational forces from the secondary impact, in combination with lateral motion of the left side wheels against the asphalt surface produced a roll moment as Vehicle 1's center of gravity was tipped outboard of its wheels. This mechanism initiated a 1-quarter turn left side rollover resulring in minor damage (event 3). The case vehicle came to rest on its left side in the southbound travel lanes facing northwest. The restrained 55 year old female driver of the 2003 GMC Envoy sport utility was presumed to be in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-forward track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact 1, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force. The occupant kinematic response was compounded by the secondary impact; however, no interior vehicle contact evidence was attributed to these relatively simultaneous events. The driver kinematic was re-directed to the left in response to the roll moment. Scuff marks and deformation identified on the center console were indicative of right pelvic/lower extremity engagement; attributed to the rollover event. Blood spatter noted within the driver space suggested that disintegration of the left front tempered glazing was possibly from driver interaction (versus exterior impact forces) during the rollover sequence. Following the collision, the restrained 55 year old female driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injury. Both vehicles (to include Vehicle 2's trailer) were towed from the crash site due to police reported disabling damage.