This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 62 year old male driver of a 2013 Lexus RX350 all-wheel-drive sport utility. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags, knee bolster air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), seat back mounted side air bags, and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver frontal air bag, driver knee bolster air bag, left rear side air bag, and left/right curtain air bags deployed as a result of a severe (run-off-road) multiple event crash envelope. The crash occurred off the south road edge of an 8-lane east/west divided interstate trafficway. The concrete surfaced trafficway was straight, level, and divided by a narrow grass median. The east and west roadways were bordered by paved shoulders and W-beam guardrails. Just east of the crash site, a 2-lane on-ramp provided access to (i.e. merged with) the eastbound interstate travel lanes. A concrete barrier wall bordered the north side of the eastbound on-ramp along with large diameter light support poles, sign support posts, and small diameter U-channel sign support posts placed intermittently along the grass divider. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The posted speed limit in the vicinity of the crash site was 55 mph (89 km/h). The case vehicle was initially eastbound in the outboard travel lane of the interstate roadway and proceeding straight. The driver allowed Vehicle 1 to depart the south shoulder, and traverse the grassy area between the eastbound roadway and on-ramp in a southeasterly direction. The case vehicle encountered a short embankment which ran parallel to the travel lanes. This terrain influence, combined with possible driver steering inputs, re-oriented the vehicle's heading slightly counterclockwise to the north. This lateral motion against the soft soil began to tip the vehicle's center of gravity outboard of its wheels as it progressed past the embankment backslope and towards the adjacent eastbound on-ramp. Vehicle 1's pre-impact lateral and rotational movement, in combination with these environmental influences produced a roll moment. This mechanism initiated an 8 quarter turn right side rollover ("trip-over") resulting in severe top damage to the case vehicle. Just as the first quarter turn of the rollover event was achieved, the vehicle's right rear side surface impacted the downslope of the concrete barrier wall resulting in moderate damage (event 2). Almost simultaneously, the vehicle's right front side surface struck a large sign support post located immediately adjacent to the concrete barrier (event 3). Vehicle 1's rotation about its longitudinal axis during the rollover sequence allowed the damage pattern from the struck post to transition onto the hood surface as one continuous event (i.e. no separation of contact damage). This simultaneous event resulted in additional moderate, non-horizontal (and overlapping) damage to Vehicle 1's top surface. Event 4 involved a small diameter U-channel sign support post which also impacted the vehicle's hood surface during the rollover sequence. However, its exact location within the physical plant of the crash site could not be determined (sign and support post removed from scene post-crash). Although it too overlapped the damage pattern from the preceding events, it resulted in minor damage and did not alter Vehicle 1's trajectory to final rest. At this point, contact separation occurred with the concrete barrier as the vehicle's rollover event continued across the eastbound on-ramp. Maximum engagement (i.e. "maximum crush") occurred along the rear roof and structural pillar area as the vehicle struck the asphalt surface during the final phase of the rollover sequence. Vehicle 1 came to rest upright (on its wheels) within the travel lanes of the eastbound on-ramp facing northeast. Following the collision, the restrained driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported by ground to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injury. The case vehicle was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.