This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 34 year old male driver of a 2008 Honda Pilot EXL AWD 4-door SUV. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags, seatback mounted side air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The case vehicle's frontal, seat back and curtain air bags deployed as a result of a frontal impact with a (empty) 2005 Mack CV700 dump truck (Vehicle 2). Vehicle #2 was involved in a prior crash with vehicle #3 (2008 Ford Explorer XLT 4dr SUV). The crash occurred 75 feet south of a 3-leg "T" intersection which, was controlled by a stop sign for the east leg. The north/south leg of the intersection consisted of 2 asphalt surfaced travel lanes (one lane in each direction) separated by a double yellow line. The southbound travel lane curves to the left (at the point of impact) and has a + 4% grade. The west leg of the intersection consists of two asphalt travel lanes (one east/one west) separated by a double yellow line. At approximately 400 feet south of the intersection there is a sign posted for northbound traffic which states "Watch for stopped vehicles" and the speed limit advisory is 35 mph (56 km/h). The posted speed limit in the vicinity of the crash site was 72 km/h (45 mph). It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 was traveling southbound and had just passed the 3-leg intersection. Vehicle 2 was traveling northbound negotiating a right curve south of the 3-leg intersection. Vehicle #3 was traveling northbound and was stopped behind a few vehicles (waiting for the first vehicle to execute a left turn) at the south side of the intersection. As vehicle #2 was negotiating a right curve, the driver noticed that traffic ahead of him was stopped so he steered to the left and put on his brakes but was unable to avoid impact and contacted the back left of V3 (event #1) with its front bumper. V2 continued on traveling across the double yellow line impacting the front left of V1 (event #2) with its front bumper. V2 then continued on to its final resting in the southwest quadrant of the intersection. After initial impact, V3 traveled in a northeast direction and impacted a guardrail (event #3) located off the northbound travel lane before traveling to its final resting position in the southeast quadrant. After initial impact, V1 was pushed rearward and off the southbound travel lane, coming to final rest (facing east) after impacting an embankment (event #4) with its back bumper. The 34 year old male driver of the 2008 Honda Pilot was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a full rear-track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Following the collision, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported (via ground) to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injury. All three vehicles were towed from the crash site due to police reported disabling damage.