This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 74 year old female driver of a 2008 Volvo XC70 station wagon. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags, seatback mounted side air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The case vehicle sustained moderate left side surface damage as a result of an oblique angled impact with a 2014 Lexus GX460 sport utility (Vehicle 2). No air bags deployed in the case vehicle during the multi-event crash envelope. The crash occurred in the westbound lanes of an urban 4-leg intersection. The asphalt surfaced east/west trafficway consisted of 6 travel lanes divided by a raised (curbed) concrete median. Inboard turning lanes provided access to the residential north/south connectors. The posted speed limit in the vicinity of the crash site was 45 mph (72 km/h). It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 was westbound in the outboard travel lane and proceeding straight on approach to the 4-leg intersection. Vehicle 2 was initially eastbound, and maneuvered into the left turn lane to proceed north (left) onto the residential connector. Vehicle 2 began to turn left, across the path of the westbound Volvo. As Vehicle 2 crossed the westbound travel lanes, the front right area impacted the left front side surface of Vehicle 1 (event 1). The impact resulted in moderate damage to both vehicles. At this point, each vehicle was re-directed towards the northwest sector of the intersection. Vehicle 2 rotated sharply counterclockwise as the right rear side surface struck the left rear side surface of Vehicle 1 in a secondary ("sideslap") configuration. This second event resulted in minor damage to both vehicles. Each vehicle came to rest in the north leg of the intersection facing northwest. The 74 year old female driver of Vehicle 1 was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-forward track position. The police reported that the driver was restrained by the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Driver belt use was confirmed by stretching identified on the belt system's lower anchor stitching. At impact 1, the driver initiated a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 10 o'clock impact force and loaded the lap portion of the 3-point manual restraint as the head/face contacted the left front door (tempered) glazing. A smudge mark was documented on the left front door glazing, indicative of possible loading to adjacent components (A-pillar, roof side rail, etc.). However, subsequent contact to a structural pillar could not be verified given the absence of tangible contact evidence. Potential secondary contact evidence was found on the structural left B-pillar, but ruled out as a source of injury given the known driver kinematic response and contamination by post-crash rescue efforts. The secondary event, although deemed minor in severity, possibly compounded the driver kinematic response into left side components. It should be noted that no air bags in the case vehicle deployed during this multi-event crash envelope. Following the collision, the restrained driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported (via air) to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injury. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.