The focus of this case is on an 47-year old, male driver (case occupant), of a 2007 BMW 328 XI (V1), involved in a side impact crash with a 1999 Chevrolet Silverado Pickup (V2). This two vehicle collision occurred during the early morning hours (dark but lighted), of a late winter day, at an intersection of two roadways with 4 travel lanes in each direction. The road surface at this intersection was bituminous and the traffic controls at the intersection were functioning normally. The weather was rainy and the roadway surface was wet. The speed limit for the East/West road way is 89 km/h (55 mph) and for the North/South road way is 72 km/h (45 mph). The 47-year old male driver (case occupant) was operating V1 in the left turn lane entering the intersection from the North. He was wearing his 3-point lap/shoulder belt and had the benefit of an advanced frontal impact air bag, side thorax air bag, and side curtain air bag. The right front passenger (non-case occupant) of V1 was a restrained 39 year old female who was wearing her available 3-point lap/shoulder belt and had the benefit of an advanced frontal impact air bag. V2 was traveling westbound approaching the intersection. For unknown reasons both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the front of V2 impacted the left side of V1 as V1 was beginning to make a left hand turn through the intersection (turning East). After the impact, V2 rotated clockwise and came to final rest in the western edge of the intersection pointed in a northwesterly direction. After the impact with V2, V1 rotated clockwise (approximately 80 degrees) and translated into the grassy median at the western end of the intersection, and came to rest pointed in a southwesterly direction. The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was removed from the vehicle and transported, by ground, to a local hospital. He was then transported by ground to a trauma center and hospitalized with serious injuries. The right front passenger of V1 was not injured in the crash. The driver of V2 was also transported, by ground, to a local hospital. The extent of his injuries and/or treatments is unknown. Both vehicles were towed due to damage sustained in the crash.