Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 64-year-old right front female passenger of a 2007 Lincoln MKZ 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a head-on frontal impact with the frontal plane of a 2001 Kia Sportage compact utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This three-vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours (dusk, street lights present), of a winter weekday, on a relatively straight, two-lane bituminous roadway. This roadway runs generally north and south and has a negative downhill grade for the southbound travel direction. The speed limit is 40 mph (64 km/h) and at the time of the crash, it was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Lincoln MKZ 4-door sedan, was being operated by a 71-year-old male driver, in the southbound travel lane. Occupying the right front seating position was the 64-year-old female passenger (case occupant). Both the driver and right front passenger of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, seat back mounted side bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. Vehicle 1 was traveling behind Vehicle 3 and the driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling south. Vehicle 2, a 2001 Kia Sportage compact utility vehicle, was traveling northbound, approaching the crash area from the south. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling northbound. Vehicle 3, a 2003 Ford Windstar minivan, was traveling southbound, directly ahead of Vehicle 1. The driver of Vehicle 3 intended to continue traveling southbound. Crash: As Vehicle 2 traveled north, it entered the southbound travel lane. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the frontal plane (front left corner area) of Vehicle 3 (event 1). The driver of Vehicle 1, seeing the approach of Vehicle 2, tried to brake and steer right, but was unsuccessful in avoiding a collision. Vehicle 2 continued on in the southbound travel lane and its frontal plane subsequently struck Vehicle 1's frontal plane (event 2). At this time, Vehicle 1 pivoted/rotated clockwise while Vehicle 2 pivoted/rotated counterclockwise. Before coming to rest off-road at the western edge of the roadway, Vehicle 1's left side plane contacted Vehicle 2's right side plane (event 3 / minor impact). Vehicle 1 came to rest facing a southwesterly direction while Vehicle 2 came to rest facing a westerly direction. Vehicle 3, after its impact with Vehicle 2, came to a controlled stop, facing south, just south of the impact area, in the southbound travel lane, near the western edge of the roadway. As a result of the frontal impact with Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1's advanced frontal air bags deployed and the front seat belt, retractor-type pretensioners actuated. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital and was treated and released with moderate injuries. The right front passenger of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was transported, by land, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with moderate to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was also transported, by land unit, to the regional trauma center and was treated and released with moderate injuries. The driver of Vehicle 3 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but the extent of their injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. All three vehicles involved in the crash were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.