Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 67-year-old, female driver of a 2010 Chrysler Town & Country minivan, which was involved in a combination severe, frontal impact with a concrete ditch/culvert and a moderate non-horizontal impact to the ditch embankment. Both impacts occurred at the same relative time, but have been separated out to account for the differences in the force directions. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) of a spring weekday, on a three-lane, bituminous roadway. This roadway is the northbound travel direction for a north/south trafficway. Prior to the crash area, the roadway has a right turning curve, but straightens at the area of the crash. The roadway is level with a speed limit of 55 mph (89 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The overall environment is rural. Vehicle 1, the 2010 Chrysler Town & Country minivan, was being operated by the 67-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the center, northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling northbound. Crash: For unknown reasons (possibly swerving to avoid object, but unconfirmed), Vehicle 1 moved left at the area of the right turning curve and began to enter the left northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 steered right, but in doing so, traveled across the center and right northbound travel lanes and departed the roadway to the right. Vehicle 1 entered a concrete ditch area at the east roadside, while traveling northbound. The driver of Vehicle 1 tried to brake and steer left, but Vehicle 1 eventually struck a concrete culvert (event 1) and an associated embankment (event 2), with its lower frontal plane/undercarriage area. Vehicle 1 continued a short distance further and came to rest at the apron of an intersecting access area for a private residencial driveway. As a result of the impact with the culvert, Vehicle 1's frontal impact air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.