Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 41-year-old, female driver of a 2004 Nissan Maxima 4-door sedan, which was involved in a moderate, near side impact with the frontal plane of a 1998 Ford Expedition utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the post-midnight hours (dark, street lights present), of a spring weekend, at the intersection of two trafficways. The eastern leg of the intersection consists of four westbound travel lanes separated from two eastbound travel lanes by a raised concrete median. The southern leg of the intersection consists of five northbound travel lanes separated from three southbound travel lanes by a raised concrete median. Both the westbound and northbound travel directions, leading into the intersection, have positive uphill grades, with the westbound travel lanes intersecting the northbound travel lanes at slightly greater than ninety degrees. Both the northbound roadway and the westbound roadway are straight, with a speed limit of 45 mph (72 km/h). Access into and through the intersection is controlled by overhead, standard electric tri-colored traffic signals. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. The overall environment is urban with multiple commercial businesses occupying the intersection and roadway edges. Vehicle 1, the 2004 Nissan Maxima 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 41-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the westbound through lane, at the eastern leg of the intersection. The driver of Vehicle 1 was unbelted, but Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with frontal impact air bags, seat back mounted side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling westbound. Vehicle 2, a 1998 Ford Expedition utility vehicle, was being operated in the northbound through lanes, of the southern leg of the intersection. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling northbound. A non-contacted tractor-trailer occupied the westbound, left turn lane, at the eastern leg of the intersection. This vehicle was indicated as possibly limiting the approach views of both Vehicle 1's driver and Vehicle 2's driver, as they entered the intersection from their respective travel directions. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 in "T-type" impact configuration. Both vehicles are believed to have come to rest within the confines of the intersection, but their actual rest positions could not be determined accurately or confirmed. As a result of the impact, the driver's side hip/torso air bag and roof side rail curtain air bag deployed for Vehicle 1. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured, while the driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.