Case Focus: The focus of this case is on an unbelted 27-year-old male driver of a 2008 Saturn Aura 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a moderate, frontal impact with concrete barrier wall. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours (daylight) of a spring weekday, on a two-lane, bituminous roadway. This roadway is the southbound travel direction of a north/south trafficway. The southbound roadway consists of two travel lanes separated from the northbound travel lanes by a concrete barrier wall. The southbound travel direction has a downhill grade and a left turning curve. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The southbound roadway has a speed limit of 35 mph (56 km/h) and the overall environment is urban. Vehicle 1, the 2008 Saturn Aura 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 27-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the right, southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was unbelted, but Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, seat back mounted side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. Occupying the right front seating position was a belted, 26-year-old male passenger. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the graded, left turning curve and continue traveling southbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 negotiated the graded and curved section of the roadway, it drifted right and struck the west side curb edge with its right front wheel and right rear wheel (events 1 and 2). The driver steered left, but Vehicle 1 departed the east roadside edge and subsequently struck the concrete barrier wall with its frontal plane (event 3). Vehicle 1 came to rest at the east roadside edge area, facing a southeasterly direction. As a result of the concrete wall impact (event 3), Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The right front passenger of Vehicle 1 was reported to be uninjured. Vehicle 1 was towed due to damage sustained in the crash.