Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted 62-year-old, female driver of a 2012 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a frontal impact (front narrow corner) with the right side plane of a 1997 Ford Mustang convertible. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight), of a summer weekend, on a straight, five-lane east/west roadway. This roadway consists of two eastbound lanes, two westbound lanes and a dedicated mutual center turn lane. The roadway is straight, with a negative grade for the eastbound travel direction. At the time of the crash, it was raining and the roadway surface was wet. The roadway has a speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2012 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 62-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the right eastbound travel lane. The driver of vehicle 1 was restrained by her 3-point lap/shoulder belt and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, driver and front passenger knee bolster air bags, front and rear, seat back mounted side impact air bags (outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling east in the right eastbound travel lane. Vehicle 2, a 1997 Ford Mustang 2-door convertible, was traveling eastbound in the left eastbound travel lane, just ahead of Vehicle 1. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling eastbound in the left eastbound travel lane. Crash: As both vehicles traveled eastbound, reportedly, an emergency vehicle, in response mode, approached from behind, in the left eastbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 seeing the approach of the emergency vehicle changed lanes to the right. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Both vehicles lost control and subsequently struck again with the right side plane of Vehicle 2 striking the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 2). Vehicle 2 reportedly spun out and came to rest in the eastbound travel lanes while it was reported that the driver of Vehicle 2 was fully ejected (unknown details). Vehicle 1 continued to rotate clockwise and departed the west side of the roadway. While traveling backwards, Vehicle 1 struck a small highway sign post with its back plane (event 3) before coming to rest at an embankment (event 4), at the west roadside, facing a westerly direction. As a result of the crash, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal and knee bolster air bags deployed, as did both roof side rail curtains and the left rear seat back mounted side impact air bag. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle by the responding emergency medical services personnel and transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to have sustained non-incapacitating injuries and was also transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.