Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted 24-year-old, male driver of a 2007 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a near-side impact (left side) with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the evening hours (dark, no street lights present) of a fall weekday, on a level, two-lane, bituminous roadway. This roadway runs north and south and has paved shoulders bordering either travel lane. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The roadway has a speed limit of 55 mph (89 km/h) and the overall environment is rural. Vehicle 1, a 2007 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 24-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with only advanced frontal air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling northbound. Crash: For unknown reasons Vehicle 1 experienced a loss of control and is suspected of departing its travel lane to the left. The driver initiated a right steering maneuver, but oversteered right. Vehicle 1 traveled back across the roadway and departed the east edge of the roadway while in a left side leading slide/yaw (clockwise rotation). Vehicle 1 slid across an open area before striking a small tree (bifurcated)/brush with its frontal plane (front left / event 1) and a much larger tree (42 cm in diameter) with its left side plane (event 2). Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise about the tree and came to rest at the east roadside, facing a westerly direction. As a result of the second impact (event 2), Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was extricated from the vehicle by responding fire/rescue personnel (left front door removed) and transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.