Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted 56-year-old female driver of a 2011 Subaru Outback 4-door station wagon, which was involved in a head-on, offset frontal collision with a 2000 Dodge Grand Caravan minivan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) of a summer weekday, on a straight and level two-lane, east/west roadway. Some distance prior to the crash area, the roadway has slight right turning curve for the eastbound travel direction, which may have played a part in the crash. The roadway itself has paved shoulders bordering either travel lane, with open farm fields at either roadway edge (overall environment is rural). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The east/west roadway has a speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2011 Subaru Outback 4-door wagon, was being operated by the 56-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the westbound travel lane, approaching the crash area from the east. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the case vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, front seatback mounted, side hip/torso air bags and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling westbound. Vehicle 2, a 2000 Dodge Grand Caravan minivan, was traveling in the eastbound travel lane, approaching the crash from the west. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling east. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 2 entered the westbound travel lane while traveling east. The driver of Vehicle 1, seeing the approach of Vehicle 2, braked and steered right, but was unsuccessful in avoiding a collision. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 in an offset manner. Vehicle 1 was pushed backwards and off the north roadway edge while rotating clockwise. Vehicle 2 continued to move through the impact while rotating slightly counterclockwise. Vehicle 2's frontal plane subsequently struck the right side plane (front right) of Vehicle 1 just prior to both vehicles coming to rest. Vehicle 1 came to rest at the north roadside edge, facing a southeasterly direction, while Vehicle 2 came to rest at the north paved shoulder area, with its frontal plane against the right side plane of Vehicle 1, facing a northeasterly direction. As a result of the crash, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag, driver's hip/torso side air bag and left side rail curtain deployed. Post-Crash: The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle by responding emergency medical services personnel and transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to critical injuries. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 2 expired at the scene. Both vehicles were towed due to damage sustained in the crash.