Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted 24-year-old, right front male passenger of a 2010 Volkswagen GTI 4-door hatchback, which was involved in a frontal impact with the right side plane of a 2000 Dodge Intrepid 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) of a winter weekday, at the intersection of a bituminous five-lane north/south trafficway and a bituminous four lane east/west trafficway. The north/south trafficway is relatively straight and consists of two northbound through lanes separated from two southbound through lanes by a grass covered median. The southbound travel direction, at the northern leg of the intersection consists of one additional lane, a dedicated left turn lane for traffic intending to turn left and continue eastbound. The northbound travel direction, leading into the intersection from the south, has an uphill grade, while the southbound travel direction, leading into the intersection from the north is relatively level. The east/west trafficway intersects the north/south trafficway on the east side, forming a "T-type" intersection. Traffic leading into and through the intersection is controlled by overhead, standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals. The speed limit for the northbound travel direction, prior to the intersection, is 55 mph (89 km/h), while the southbound travel direction, prior to the intersection, has a speed limit of 45 mph (72 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2010 Volkswagen GTI 4-door hatchback, was being operated by a 23-year-old male driver in the right, northbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the south. Occupying the right front seating position was the 24-year-old male case occupant. Both the driver and right front passenger were restrained by their respective 3-point, lap/shoulder belts. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat-back mounted side air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling northbound. Vehicle 2, a 2000 Dodge Intrepid 4-door sedan, was in the southbound left turn lane at the northern leg of the intersection. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling eastbound. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 2 (event 1). It is believed that both vehicles rotated clockwise out of the impact with Vehicle 1 coming to rest in the intersection, likely facing an easterly direction, while Vehicle 2 is believed to have come to rest at the center median of the east/west trafficway, facing a southerly direction. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's frontal impact air bags deployed and the frontal seat belt pretensioners actuated. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital and was treated and released for minor injuries, while the right front passenger of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital, by land unit, but was subsequently transferred (post-midnight) to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported as being uninjured and was transported for treatment; however, the right front passenger of Vehicle 2 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital with incapacitating injuries. The extent of her injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.