Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 72-year-old male driver of a 2010 Honda Accord 4-door sedan and a 23-year-old female driver of a 2011 Kia Soul 4-door hatchback, both of which were involved in a head-on collision. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the late evening hours (dark, street lights present) of a spring weekday, within the westbound travel lanes of an east/west trafficway, near the termination point of a large intersection area. This intersection is the junction of a north/south trafficway and an east/west trafficway and is controlled by overhead, standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals. The westbound travel direction, east of the intersection, consists of three travel lanes; however, this roadway expands to six travel lanes at the intersection area. The westbound roadway has a right turning curve and a slight downhill grade. The speed limit for the westbound travel direction is 50 mph (80 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2010 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 72-year-old male driver (case occupant 1) in the left, southbound travel lane, at the northern leg of the intersection (left turn lane). The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his 3-point, lap/shoulder belt and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat-back mounted side air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling eastbound. Vehicle 2, a 2011 Kia Soul 4-door hatchback, was being operated by the 23-year-old female driver (case occupant 2) in the left, westbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the east. The driver of Vehicle 2 was restrained by her 3-point, lap/shoulder belt and Vehicle 2 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat-back mounted side air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling west and through the intersection. Crash: Vehicle 1 turned left at the intersection, but entered the westbound lanes, traveling east. Vehicle 1 continued west as Vehicle 2 approached from the east. Subsequently, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 in a head-on type collision (event 1), near the termination area of the intersection, in the westbound travel lanes. It is suspected that Vehicle 2 was pushed rearward and off the south edge of the westbound travel lanes (median area), where it came to rest, facing a northerly direction. It is believed that Vehicle 1 came to rest nearby, facing an unknown direction. As a result of the impact, the driver's frontal air bags deployed and the frontal seat belt pretensioners actuated for both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2. Post-Crash: Both the driver of Vehicle 1 and the driver of Vehicle 2 were transported, by land units, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized. The driver of Vehicle 1 sustained minor to serious injuries, while the driver of Vehicle 2 also sustained minor to serious injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.