Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 30-year-old male driver of a 2013 Acura TL 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a small overlap, frontal impact with the frontal plane a 1993 Ford Crown Victoria 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the late morning hours (daylight) of a late spring weekday, on a straight, north/south, four-lane roadway (two travel lanes for each direction). At the area of the crash, the roadway has a negative grade for both travel directions (transitional "sag" area). At the crash area and extending south, a painted median divides the two travel directions. The speed limit for both travel directions is 45 mph (72 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was reportedly clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2013 Acura TL 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 30-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the left, southbound travel lane. Occupying the right front seating position was a 28-year-old female passenger. Both the driver and right front passenger were restrained by their respective 3-point, lap/shoulder belts and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, side impact hip/torso air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling southbound in the left southbound travel lane. Vehicle 2, a 1993 Ford Crown Victoria 4-door sedan, was traveling northbound in the left northbound travel lane, approaching the crash area from the south. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling northbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 2 crossed into the left southbound travel and subsequently struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 with its frontal plane in a small overlap type impact (event 1). As a result of this impact, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed, as did the driver's side hip/torso air bag. The status of the roof side rail curtains is unknown due to the roof structure being removed, post-crash, and not available for inspection. Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise out of the impact and subsequently struck a guardrail at the west roadside, with its back left corner (event 2). Vehicle 1 then continued to impact the guardrail with its left side plane with the damage extending up the left side plane from the back left corner (event 3). Vehicle 1 came to rest at the guardrail, facing a northerly direction. Vehicle 2 is believed to have rotated counterclockwise out of the impact as well and came to rest in an unknown location, facing an unknown travel direction. Post-Crash: The driver and right front passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was hospitalized with moderate to serious injuries, while the right front passenger of Vehicle 1 was treated and released. The driver of Vehicle 2 fled the scene while a right front passenger of Vehicle 2 was transported to a local hospital with reportedly incapacitating injuries (unconfirmed). Both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.