Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 32-year-old female driver (pregnant, second trimester) of a 2013 Infiniti JX35 compact utility vehicle, which was primarily involved in a frontal impact with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight) of a summer weekend day, on a multi-lane trafficway, just north of an interchange area. The trafficway runs generally north and south with a slight downhill grade for the northbound travel direction. The northbound roadway consists of four travel lanes and also has a left turning curve leading into the crash area, but at the area of the crash the roadway straightens. The east roadside consists of a negative graded grass embankment, with a drainage ditch and wooded area further to the east. The speed limit for the northbound roadway is 65 mph (105 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2013 Infiniti JX35 compact utility vehicle, was being operated by the 32-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the far left northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her respective 3-point, lap/shoulder belt and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, side hip/torso air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 had just passed the interchange area and was negotiating the left turning curve and intended to continue traveling northbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 negotiated the left turning curve, it drifted right and across all the northbound travel lanes and departed the east roadway edge. Vehicle 1 traversed the grass embankment and struck the drainage ditch with its frontal plane (right front corner and right front wheel - event 1) before continuing into the tree line. At this time, Vehicle 1 struck a large tree with its front left corner (event 2). Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise and struck another smaller tree with its right side plane (event 3) before coming to rest in the wooded area of the east roadside, facing a northwesterly direction. As a result of the second event (tree impact to the frontal plane), Vehicle 1's driver's frontal impact air bag, side hip/torso air bag and left roof side rail curtain air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The roof and left side doors of Vehicle 1 were removed by fire/rescue personnel. After an extrication time of approximately 30 minutes or more, the driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 1 was removed and transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.