Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 63-year-old female driver of a 2013 Hyundai Azera 4-door sedan, which was involved in a near side impact with the frontal plane of a 2007 Dodge Ram 3500 medium pick-up truck (configured with rollback and towing a 2010 PJ Gooseneck trailer). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight) of a spring weekday, on a straight, two-lane, bituminous north/south roadway. At the area of the crash, for the southbound travel direction, the roadway transitions from a downhill grade to an uphill grade. Paved shoulders are present on either side and the speed limit for the roadway is 50 mph (80 km/h). At the time of the crash, it was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2013 Hyundai Azera 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 63-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the southbound travel lane. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her 3-point, lap/shoulder belt and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat-back mounted side air bags (front and rear, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to make a U-turn and continue traveling northbound. Vehicle 2, a 2007 Dodge Ram 3500 medium truck (incomplete pickup truck configured with a rollback) and towing an additional 2010 PJ Gooseneck trailer, was traveling southbound behind Vehicle 1 an unknown distance. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling southbound. Crash: The driver Vehicle 1 slowed and entered the west paved shoulder area of the roadway and then initiated a U-turn. As Vehicle 1 re-entered the southbound travel lane, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1. Vehicle 2 pushed Vehicle 1 down the roadway a considerable distance before both vehicles came to rest. Vehicle 1 came to rest straddling the northbound travel lane, facing a southeasterly direction, while Vehicle 2 came to rest straddling the edge of the northbound travel lane and the east paved shoulder area, facing a southerly direction. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's left, outboard seat back mounted, side air bags deployed as did the left side rail curtain. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. The driver and a right front passenger of Vehicle 2 were reported to have sustained injuries, but were not transported from the scene. Both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.