Case Focus: The focus of this case is on an improperly belted 25-year-old, male driver of a 2011 Chevrolet Malibu 4-door sedan, which was involved in a frontal impact with the right side plane of a 2006 Chevrolet Silverado K1500 large pick-up truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) of a winter weekend day, at the intersection of a bituminous five-lane east/west trafficway and a bituminous two-lane north/south roadway. The east/west trafficway, east of the intersection is relatively straight, but has a negative grade for the westbound travel direction. The east/west trafficway, west of the intersection is relatively level, but has left turning curve for the eastbound travel direction. The trafficway consists of two eastbound through lanes and two westbound through lanes, which are separated by a raised concrete median. The north/south roadway intersects the east/west trafficway on the south side forming a "T-type" intersection. At the intersection, there is a break in the east/west trafficway median to accommodate a dedicated left turn lane for westbound traffic and a dedicated left turn lane for northbound traffic to access the westbound travel direction. Both east and westbound traffic entering the intersection have overhead, single electric flashing yellow signals, while northbound traffic, at the intersection, have overhead, single electric flashing red signals. The speed limit for the east/west trafficway is 45 mph (72 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were wet due to a previous rain. Vehicle 1, the 2011 Chevrolet Malibu 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 25-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the left eastbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the west. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 1 was improperly restrained by his 3-point, lap/shoulder belt (shoulder belt portion reportedly worn behind the back), while Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat-back mounted side air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling eastbound. Vehicle 2, a 2006 Chevrolet Silverado K1500 regular cab large pick-up truck, was westbound in the left turn lane, waiting to turn left. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling southbound. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise out of the impact and came to rest east of the intersection, facing a southerly direction, straddling the south edge of the eastbound roadway. Vehicle 2 rotated clockwise as well out of the impact and departed the intersection at the southeast corner. At this time, Vehicle 2's left side plane struck a low rising wall (event 2) before coming to rest in the entrance of a gas station, facing a northeasterly direction. As a result of the impact with Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal impact air bag deployed and the frontal seat belt pretensioner actuated. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver and right front passenger of Vehicle 2 were both transported, by land unit, to a local hospital with reportedly incapacitating injuries. The extent of their injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.