Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 61-year-old female driver of a 2013 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, which was involved in an offset frontal impact with the frontal plane of a 2000 Volvo WG model heavy/medium straight truck (configured as a dump/rollback). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) of a late summer weekday, on a curved two-lane, bituminous roadway. This roadway runs generally north and south, and at the area of the crash, has a right turning curve and an uphill grade for the northbound travel direction. The speed limit for this roadway is 55 mph (89 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The overall environment is rural. Vehicle 1, the 2013 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 61-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was utilizing her 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, side impact hip/torso air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver intended to negotiate the right turning curve and continue traveling northbound. Vehicle 2, a 2000 Volvo WG model heavy/medium straight truck (configured as a dump/rollback), was traveling southbound, approaching the curved section of the roadway from the north. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to negotiate the left turning curve and continue traveling southbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 traveled north, it drifted left and into the southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 2, seeing the approach of Vehicle 1, braked and steered right and entered the west paved shoulder area of the road. However, this maneuver was unsuccessful and the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 (event 1) at the west edge of the roadway (southbound lane/shoulder line). Vehicle 2 moved through the impact and departed the roadway at the west edge and came to rest facing a southwesterly direction off road. Vehicle 1 was pushed rearward and back across the roadway, departing the east edge and coming to rest off the east edge of the roadway, facing a northwesterly direction. As a result of the impact (event 1), Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag, left side hip/torso air bag and left side rail curtain deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was extricated from Vehicle 1 (prolonged extrication) and transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured and was not transported from the scene. Both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.