This 68-year-old female case occupant was the belted driver of a 2014 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a severe, 12 o'clock frontal impact with a non-breakaway traffic light support pole (yielding object). The case occupant was sitting upright (suspected) in a bucket seat which was found, at inspection, adjusted to the mid-to-forward seat track position. At the time of the crash, the case occupant was 165 cm (65 inches) in height and weighed 74 kg (164 pounds). During the impact with the traffic light support pole, the case occupant was projected forward in reference to the vehicle. The case occupant loaded her seat belt restraint with her upper torso and pelvis areas, evident by the abrasions to latch plate ring and D-ring, while her knees contacted the deployed knee bolster air bag and her chest contacted the steering wheel mounted frontal air bag. Given the severity of the impact, the case occupant continued to load through the deployed frontal air bags, with her chest, and possibly her abdomen, contacting the steering wheel rim/hub, via the frontal steering wheel air bag. Both her knees contacted the knee bolster/lower instrument panel, via the knee bolster air bag, though there was considerable overlapping impact damage and intrusion. Based upon injuries, kinematics and the severity of the intruded frontal components, it is highly probable that the case occupant came into contact with the intruded center instrument panel area with her right upper and lower extremities, while her left upper and lower extremities made contact with left side components (i.e. door panel and left door window frame). Also based upon injury and reduction of seating area due to intrusion, it is suspected that the case occupant's head made contact with the left A-pillar or possibly the steering wheel. At this time, the case occupant eventually rebounded and came to rest in her respective seating area, which was reduced in volume by intruded interior components, notably the center instrument panel, where she was found by the responding emergency medical services personnel. The case occupant's injuries include right intraventricular hemorrhages, a right subarachnoid hemorrhage, bilateral cerebral contusions and an anterior basilar skull fracture, all due to possible head contact with the left A-pillar or possibly head contact with the steering wheel. A right lung contusion, a left pneumothorax, bilateral rib fractures (Left 1st rib, Left 2nd through 7th ribs with noted flail, Left 8th through 12th ribs, and Right 1st through 12th ribs), a sternum fracture and a left chest contusion were probably due to chest contact with the steering wheel hub/rim, via the deployed frontal air bag. A right chest abrasion, a right chest laceration were the probable result of contact with the seat belt webbing or possibly the steering wheel rim/hub, while a liver laceration was probably due to abdomen contact with the steering wheel rim or possibly the seat belt webbing. A pelvis fracture was the possible result of contact with the steering wheel rim or possibly the intruded center instrument panel, which was intruded both longitudinally and laterally left. A right forearm fracture and a right forearm abrasion were the probable result of contact with the center instrument panel, while a right humerus fracture and a right upper arm abrasion were probably attributable to the steering wheel or possibly the center instrument panel. A left ear avulsion was possibly due to contact with the side window glazing or possibly the left A-pillar. A lip abrasion and chin abrasion were the probable result of facial contact with the deployed frontal air bag. A left hand abrasion, a left hand contusion and a left hand laceration were possibly due to contact with the left door window frame, while a right hand abrasion was probably due to contact with the center instrument panel. A right thigh abrasion was probably due to contact with the center instrument panel or possibly the steering wheel rim, while a left thigh contusion was possibly due to contact with the driver's left door panel (rear lower quadrant area). A right lower leg abrasion and a right leg fracture were probably due to contact with the center instrument panel or possibly with the left knee bolster panel. Finally, a right foot contusion and a left foot fracture were both the probable result of contact with the toe/floor pan at respective locations. The maximum Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS) for this case occupant was MAIS 4.