Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 33-year-old female driver and a 69-year-old right front, male passenger, both of a 2015 Kia Rio 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a left side plane impact by the frontal plane of an unknown passenger vehicle (stolen vehicle). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the late afternoon hours (daylight) of a summer weekday, at the intersection of an eastbound roadway and a north/south roadway, within an urban environment. The north/south roadway, at the southern leg of the intersection consists of three northbound lanes (two through lanes and one dedicated right turn lane) and one southbound lane. The eastbound roadway, west of the intersection, consists of two eastbound through lanes and one dedicated left turn lane. The eastbound roadway has an uphill grade leading into the intersection while the north/south roadway is level. Traffic leading into and through the intersection is controlled by overhead, standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals. The speed limit for both roadways is 25 mph (40 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2015 Kia Rio 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 33-year-old female driver (case occupant 1) in the left, northbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the south. Occupying the right front seating position was the 69-year-old male passenger (case occupant 2). Both the driver and right front passenger of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with frontal impact air bags, side impact hip/torso air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling north. Vehicle 2, an unknown passenger vehicle (stolen), was traveling eastbound in the center eastbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the west. The driver of Vehicle 2 is believed to have intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling east. Vehicle 3, an unknown 4-door sedan passenger vehicle, was legally parked (not in transport) at the north curb edge, of the eastbound roadway, east of the intersection, facing an easterly direction. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1). As a result, Vehicle 1 was redirected towards the northeast corner of the intersection and eventually departed the north edge of the eastbound roadway. While departing the roadway, Vehicle 1's front right plane struck the back plane of Vehicle 3, a parked 4-door passenger sedan (event 2), pushing the parked vehicle into another parked vehicle. Vehicle 1 then struck a curb with its right front wheel (event 3) and subsequently struck a small roadway sign (event 4) with its frontal plane. Vehicle 1 continued on and subsequently struck a building (event 5) where it came to rest facing an easterly direction. Vehicle 2 was also redirected toward the northeast corner of the intersection while rotating counterclockwise. Vehicle 2 came to rest within a cross walk, at the northeast corner of the intersection (east leg), facing a northwesterly direction. As a result of the first and main impact (event 1), Vehicle 1's driver's side hip/torso air bag deployed as did the left roof side rail curtain air bag. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant 1) was extricated from Vehicle 1 (prolonged extrication) and transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The right front passenger of Vehicle 1 (case occupant 2) was also removed from Vehicle 1 and transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 2 exited the vehicle under their own power and tried to flee the scene. Both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.