This case involves a belted driver of a passenger vehicle responding to a head-on collision with another passenger vehicle. The case vehicle's frontal impact air bags deployed. This crash occurred on a two-lane, east/west street traveling through a residential area. There was a single lane for travel in each direction separated by painted double yellow lines. The south roadside consisted of a gravel shoulder followed by a chain-link fence. The north roadside consisted of a paved shoulder, a curb, level grass terrain and a wooden fence. The level roadway was curved in both directions on approach to the crash site. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the evening (dark-street lights), weekday crash. The case vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Mercedes Benz CL240 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts, driver and passenger frontal impact air bags and first row door mounted air bags. There were two occupants in the case vehicle. The 17-year-old female driver (case subject) and the 9-year-old male front right seat passenger were both using the belt restraints. The opposing vehicle two (V2), "1995 Saturn Wagon", was traveling westbound. There were two occupants in V2. Reportedly, the driver was not using the belt restraint, the front right passenger was. V1 was negotiating a shallow right curve as it approached the crash site. There was another vehicle in front of V1. V2, meanwhile was traveling westbound negotiating a sweeping right curve, just prior to the crash site, at a speed too great to keep the vehicle from traveling into the opposing lane (eastbound). V2 was now in the eastbound lane traveling directly at the vehicle in front of V1. The driver of the vehicle suddenly swerved onto the right shoulder to avoid V2. The driver of V1 now saw only headlights approaching her vehicle and attempted to brake when the front of V1 struck the front of V2. The impact caused V1's frontal impact air bags to deploy. Reportedly, V2's air bags also deployed. V1's forward momentum was halted by the impact and V1 was pushed rearward while rotating clockwise approximately 100-degrees where it came to rest facing south/west. V2 rotated counterclockwise and traveled backward off of the north roadside to its final rest facing southeast. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The subject (driver, V1) was transported to a trauma facility due to severe injury(s). The front right seat passenger of V1 was transported to a trauma facility due to complaint of pain. Both occupants of V2 were fatally injured and expired within one hour of the crash.