This case involved the unbelted 84-year-old female driver of a compact passenger car responding to a frontal impact, offset right, with a large pickup. The case vehicle's frontal-impact air bags deployed during the one o'clock principal direction of force impact. The collision resulted in 'severe' damage to the vehicle while the subject sustained serious injuries. This two-vehicle crash occurred at the three-way intersection of two rural trafficways traveling through a rural area. The north/south trafficway was primarily two-lane, with one lane in each direction, until approaching the intersection, wherein both directions had a left turn lane. The intersection was controlled only by a stop sign at the western approach. There was a slight grade and the roadway was relatively straight. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the dusk (no street lights) time crash. The Case Vehicle (V1, 2002 Hyundai Accent, 3-door hatchback) was traveling southbound on its approach to the intersection with the intention of turning left. V1's first row lap and shoulder belts were pretensioner equipped and had first row frontal-impact air bags. The 84-year-old female driver (case subject/sole occupant) was determined not to have been using the belt restraint during the crash. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2004 Ford F350 pickup was traveling northbound on its approach to the intersection with the intention of traveling straight through. As V1 approached the intersection and entered the left turn lane there was a large RV in the process of making the left turn. The RV made the left turn, apparently obstructing the subject's view of the on-coming V2. The subject followed and drove into the path of V2, who had observed the actions of both drivers and upon realizing that V1 was coming into the lane he occupied, the driver began to slow and steer right. However, the front of V2 struck the front right of V1. The impact immediately rotated V1 approximately 130-degrees counterclockwise as it was deflected to the left. V1 free rolled back across the roadway to its final rest on the west roadside facing west. V2, at impact, was deflected to the right (northeast) and ran off of the north corner of the intersection and down into an agricultural field where it cane to rest facing northeast. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to disabling damage. The case subject/driver of V1 was transported to a trauma facility due to serious injury.