This case involved the belted, 23-year-old female driver of a compact passenger car, responding to a head-on collision with another passenger car. The subject's frontal-impact air bags deployed (both hub-mounted and knee bolster mounted). The twelve-o'clock principal direction of force impact caused severe vehicle damage and the subject sustained serious injury. This two-vehicle crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a multi-lane, divided interstate. There were four lanes for southbound travel divided from the northbound by guardrails and natural median. There was an upward grade and a long gradual left curvature traveling in this direction. The weather was clear and the concrete trafficway dry during the early morning (dark-not lit) weekday crash. The Case Vehicle (V1, 2008 Toyota Scion tC, 2-door hatchback) was traveling southbound in the number-four lane (left), negotiating the left curve and traveling up hill. V1's first row lap and shoulder belts were pretensioner equipped, there were first row frontal-impact air bags, first row seat back mounted side-impact air bags and a driver's side lower dash (knee bolster) mounted air bag. The 23-year-old female driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint, as evidenced. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2001 Honda Civic, 4-door sedan) was traveling northbound in the southbound number-four lane. The driver of V2 had gotten onto the interstate traveling the wrong way and was now negotiating the downhill right curve. The subject began to realize V2 was approaching in her lane, opposite direction, when she attempted to steer left in an effort to avoid the impending impact. However, the front right of V1 struck the front right of V2 in an off-set head-on impact. V1's frontal-impact air bags deployed. The front of V2 raked down the right plane of V1 as the vehicles engaged and separated. V1 rotated clockwise approximately 360-degrees as it continued forward and to the left (S/E) into the median where it came to rest facing southwest. V2 rotated clockwise approximately 360-degrees where it came to rest straddling the number-three and four lane lines facing northwest. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The subject was transported to a trauma facility due to serious injuries, as also was the driver of V2.