This case involved the belted right rear female passenger of a station wagon responding to a head-on collision with another passenger car. The vehicle sustained 'moderate' severity damage and the subject received serious injury. This two-vehicle crash occurred on a five-lane, north/south street, traveling through a residential area. There were two lanes for travel in each direction separated by a continuous center turn lane. There was a grade and a curve within the crash site. The weather was clear and the bituminous trafficway dry during the early evening (dusk), weekday crash. The Case Vehicle (V1, 2004 Chrysler Pacifica, 4-door station wagon) was traveling north in the number-two (left) lane, uphill, and negotiating a right curve. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts, first row frontal-impact air bags, driver knee bolster mounted frontal-impact air bag, and left and right roof-rail mounted 'curtain' type side-impact air bags. The 48-year-old female driver, 54-year-old female front right seat passenger and the 82-year-old female second row right side passenger (case subject) were all using the belt restraints, based on physical evidence. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2005 Nissan Altima, 4-door sedan, three occupants, frontal bags deployed) was traveling south in the number-two lane, downhill, and negotiating a left curve. V1 began to track left of the center lane as it negotiated the right, uphill curve. V1 had traveled fully into the on-coming southbound number-one lane and into the path of V2. The driver of V2 had observed V1's movements and was steering left in an attempt to avoid striking V1 when the front of V1 struck the front of V2. V1's frontal-impact air bags deployed. The impact caused V1 to rotate slightly clockwise as it came to rest in the southbound number-one lane facing northeast. V2 rotated slightly counterclockwise coming to rest in the southbound number-one lane facing southeast. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to disabling damage. Two occupants of V1, including the case subject, were transported to a trauma facility due to varying degrees of injury with the subject's injury being serious.