This case involved the belted female driver, and a belted female front right seat occupant, of a passenger car responding to a head-on, frontal-offset right, impact with the front of another passenger car. The, one o'clock principal direction of force, collision rotated the subject vehicle counterclockwise, deploying the frontal-impact air bags and the right side-impact air bags. The vehicle sustained 'moderate' damage, while the case subjects received serious injuries. This two-vehicle crash occurred at a four-way intersection located in a residential area. The north/south roadway had two lanes for travel in each direction separated by a continuous left-turn lane. The roadway was straight with a noticeable downhill grade from north to south. The east/west street had a single lane for travel in each direction. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the mid-morning, weekend, crash. The Case Vehicle (V1, 2005 Honda Accord, 4-door sedan) was traveling northbound on its approach to the intersection with the intention of turning left. V1's first row lap and shoulder belts were pretensioner equipped and there were first row frontal-impact air bags. There were also first row seat back mounted side-impact air bags (torso) and roof rail mounted side-impact (head) air bags. There two occupants in V1. The fifty-eight year old female driver (case subject 1) and the twenty-seven year old female front right seat passenger (case subject 2) were using the belt restraints. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2007 BMW 328i, convertible) was traveling south in the number-one lane, downhill, on its approach to the intersection intending to travel straight thorough. There, reportedly, were four occupants in V2 The driver of V1, traveling northbound, uphill, and in the number-two lane, had merged into the center left-turn lane as she approached the intersection. Believing that she had enough time to make the turn, she began to negotiate the left turn maneuver, bringing her across the southbound number-one land and into the path of V2. The front right of V1 was struck by the front left of V2. V1's frontal-impact air bags deployed. The vehicles rotated opposite each other and struck a second time (side-slap) with the right rear of V1 striking the left rear of V2. V1's right side-impact air bags also deployed during the sequence. V1 came to rest along the west side of the roadway facing south. V2 was deflected to the west, where it ran off of the roadway and came to rest. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. All parties were transported to medical facilities, with the driver and passenger of V1 (case subjects) being transported to a trauma facility due to serious injury.