This case involved an improperly lap and shoulder belt restrained 56-year-old female second row center seat passenger of a compact utility vehicle responding to a frontal collision with a van. The twelve o'clock principal direction of force impact caused "severe" vehicle damage, though resulted in serious injury to the subject. This two-vehicle crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a divided interstate traveling through an urban area. There were four lanes for eastbound travel divided from the westbound traffic by a concrete barrier. The weather was clear and the straight, level, concrete trafficway was dry during the afternoon, weekend crash. The Case Vehicle (V1, 2004 Honda CRV, five-door utility vehicle) was traveling eastbound in the number-three lane (2nd from left). V1's first row lap and shoulder belts were equipped with pretensioners. There were first row frontal-impact air bags, which did deploy. There were six occupants in V1. The 56-year-old female case subject was seated in the second row, center position, and was belted, though not securely. This particular lap/shoulder belt, which retracts into the cargo area roof, requires two separate buckles and latches to be fixed in order to function properly. The subject had secured the left latch and, apparently thought she had sucessfully latched the right side. However, during the collision the right side latch came apart, resulting in the belt functioning only as an elongated shoulder belt. The 60-year-old female driver and the 73-year-old male front right seat passengers were both belted. The 48-year-old male second-row left seat passenger, the subject and the 57-year-old female second-row right seat passenger were all belted (with exception noted). There was also a 54-year-old female riding in the cargo compartment with no belt available. The opposing vehicle (V2, 1994 Ford Explorer, utility vehicle) was traveling eastbound in the number-one lane (right). Traffic ahead of V2 began slowing and the driver steered left, over-correcting, while applying the brakes, causing him to lose control of V2. V2 continued eastbound as it rotated counterclockwise, almost 180-degrees as it entered V1's lane facing the opposite direction. The driver of V1 noticed V2 as it came from the left and into her lane. The driver of V1 attempted to brake, however, the front of V1 struck the front of V2. V1's frontal-impact air bags deployed. V1 continued for a short distance forward from impact, coming to rest straddling the number three and four lanes, facing slightly northeast. V2 was deflected to the right as it now rotated clockwise, turning over onto its right side and coming to rest in the number-two lane facing west. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. All six occupants of V1 were transported to area trauma facilities due to varying degrees of injuries, the subject's injuries being the most serious.