This case involved the belted female driver of a passenger car responding to an arrested/interrupted rollover. The vehicle was damaged 'moderately to severe' and the subject received severe injuries. This single vehicle crash occurred on the northbound side of a four-lane, divided, trafficway. There were two lanes for travel in each direction divided by a natural median and a double sided, three-beam, guardrail. The narrow median had a significant crown with the guardrail at its top. The east roadside consisted of a paved shoulder, a dirt shoulder, a paved bicycle path, a wide swath of natural landscape, a foot path and a tall chain-link fence. The entire area is level with the exception of the median. The weather was clear and the concrete roadway dry, during the morning (daylight), weekday crash. The case vehicle (2005 Honda Civic, 4-door sedan) was traveling north in the left lane. The vehicle's first row lap and shoulder belts were pretensioner equipped, and there were first row frontal-impact air bags. The twenty-one year old female driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint based on the condition found. As the case vehicle traveled north, the subject became fatigued and allowed the vehicle to travel off of the left roadside, across the raised curb and onto the median. The startled driver turned the steering wheel, abruptly to the right, and the vehicle swerved back onto the road. The driver steered sharply to the left and the vehicle began a counterclockwise yaw as it exited the left (west) roadside and crossed onto the median. The vehicle was leading with its right side as it encountered the raised curb and dirt upslope of the median. The vehicle tripped over its right wheels, and with the help of the upslope, struck the guardrail with its left plane (roofrail). The vehicle, upside down, slid a short distance northward on the guardrail until its back plane came down into the dirt. The vehicle pitched onto its right roof rail/A-pillar as it re-entered the northbound roadway, righting itself and free-rolling (tracking) to the northeast. The vehicle overturned a total of eight quarter-turns. The slowing vehicle eventually struck down a portion of chain-link fence with its front and right plane(s) as it came to rest facing north. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage while the subject was transported to a trauma facility due to serious injuries.