This case study involved the belted male driver of a passenger car responding to a near-side collision (ten o'clock principal direction of force impact) with a small pickup. The subject's frontal-impact air bag deployed. The subject sustained serious injuries, while the vehicle was 'severely' damaged. This crash occurred at the junction of a private business driveway entrance and a north/south rural trafficway. The gently curved north/south trafficway had a single lane for travel in either direction divided by a painted median and was level. The private driveway adjoined from the west. At the junction, there was a left-turn pocket for northbound traffic and a right-turn lane for eastbound traffic. The driveway was wide enough to accommodate vehicles entering and exiting and had a slight uphill grade. The junction was controlled by a stop sign at the driveway. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadways dry during the night-time (dark-not lit), weekday crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2005 Toyota Camry, 4-door sedan) was traveling eastbound (out of the driveway) and came to a stop, with the intention of then turning left. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts (first row pretensioner equipped) and first row frontal-impact air bags. The fifty-four year old male driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint, based on the condition found. The opposing vehicle (V2, 1983 Datsun 720 pickup) was traveling southbound on its approach to the junction with the intention of traveling on through.. The driver of V1 began to negotiate the left turn maneuver, driving V1 into the path of V2. The front of V2 struck the left plane of V1, resulting in a ten o'clock principal direction of force impact causing 'severe' vehicle damage and deploying the subject's frontal-impact air bag. The impact rotated V1 counterclockwise approximately two hundred-degrees as it was deflected southeast, where it came to rest facing south on the east side of the trafficway. V2 rotated approximately one hundred eighty-degrees counterclockwise and came to rest facing north in the trafficway. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to disabling damage. The case subject (driver of V1) was transported to a trauma facility due to serious injuries.