This case involved the right side, first row 88-year-old male passenger and the second row 80-year-old female passenger of a sport utility vehicle responding to a frontal impact (with frontal impact and rollover curtain air bags-deployed) into the side of another sport utility vehicle. The moderate delta-v, 1o'clock principal direction of force impact resulted in serious injury to both subjects. There was a secondary, minor, three quarter-turn rollover event, as well. This two-vehicle crash occurred at the four-way intersection of two trafficways in a rural area. The north/south trafficway consisted of a single lane for travel in each direction separated by painted lines. The east/west trafficway also consisted of a single lane for travel in each direction. The east leg was slightly offset from the west leg. The intersection was controlled by stop signs at the east and west approach. Both bituminous trafficways were straight and level. The weather was clear and roadways dry during the mid-morning, weekend crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2007 Lincoln MKX, 4-door sport utility vehicle) was traveling southbound on its approach to the intersection with the intention of traveling straight through. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts, first row frontal impact air bags, first row seat back mounted air bags, and, left and right side rollover curtain air bags. The 57-year-old female driver, 88-year-old male front right seat passenger (subject 1) and the 80-year-old female second row right side passenger (subject 2) were all using the belt restraints. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2000 Jeep, Cherokee, 4-door sport utility vehicle) was traveling eastbound on its approach to the intersection with the intention of traveling straight through it. There was a single occupant in V2. The physical layout of the intersection would require an eastbound vehicle to make a slight left steering correction to proceed. As V1 approached the intersection the driver observed V2 traveling through the intersection from her right and instinctively steered left as the front of V1 struck the left side of V2. V1's frontal impact air bags deployed. The slight left steering of the front wheels, coupled with the momentum of V2, resulted in V1 rotating counterclockwise and traveling off of the roadway to the southeast corner. V1 continued it's rotation until the right rear tire lost its bead and the rim began dragging the pavement. The vehicle tripped to its right as it left the paved trafficway, and overturned three quarter-turns, coming to rest on its left side, facing east, on the dirt shoulder. The vehicle's left and right rollover curtain air bags deployed. Meanwhile, V2 was deflected to the right (southeast) and came to rest in a ditch facing east. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. All parties of both vehicles were transported to local medical facilities. The front right and second row right seat passengers of V1 (subjects 1 & 2) were then transported to a trauma facility for treatment of serious injuries.