This case involves the unbelted 77-year-old male driver of a passenger car responding to a 9 o'clock principal direction of force, near side (off center forward) impact with the front of a medium/heavy truck. The subject sustained severe injury as a result. This two-vehicle crash occurred at the three-way intersection of a four-lane, east/west, divided trafficway and a two-lane, north/south trafficway that adjoined from the south. The rural intersection was controlled by a Stop sign at the south leg. Both trafficways were straight, level and bituminous. The weather was clear and the roadways dry during the afternoon, weekend crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2002 Geo Prizm, 4-door sedan) was traveling northbound on its approach to the intersection intending to turn left. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts (pretensioner) and first row frontal impact air bags. The 77-year-old male driver (case subject) was not using the belt restraint based on physical evidence. There was one additional passenger of V1, a front right seat 79-year-old female occupant was using the belt restraint based on physical evidence. The opposing vehicle (V2, 1999 Sundance Haysqueeze, nfs, med/hvy truck) was traveling eastbound in the number-one lane (right). The driver of V1 (case subject) approached the intersection and reportedly came to a stop. V1's driver then began to pull into the intersection anticipating a left turn maneuver. The driver of V2 observed this and began to steer left in an effort to miss V1. However, the front of V2 struck the left side of V1 forward of it's A-pillar. V1's first row frontal air bags deployed. The impact caused V1 to rotate clockwise approximately 45-degrees where the left rear of V1 struck the right plane of V2 in a secondary, minor impact (side-slap). V1 continued rotating sharply, clockwise as it exited the south side of the trafficway coming to rest on the south shoulder facing west. V2 had locked up its brakes @ impact and left locked wheel skids in a clockwise yaw as it traveled off of the south roadside, further down than V1, and came to rest facing west. V1 was towed due to damage. V2 was also towed but for unknown reasons. The case subject (driver V1) was transported to a local medical facility and then transferred to a trauma facility due to serious injuries. The passenger of V1 was also transported and released from the local facility. There were no injuries reported to the driver/sole occupant of V2.