This case involved the belted 50-year-old female driver of an SUV responding to a 6 quarter-turn rollover crash. The vehicle sustained severe crush and the subject sustained serious injury. This single-vehicle crash occurred on the westbound side of a four-lane, divided interstate traveling through a rural, mountainous area. There were two lanes for westbound travel divided from the eastbound lanes by a wide natural median. For westbound traffic there was a slight uphill grade and a gradual left curve leading to the crash site. The weather was cloudy and cold. The concrete roadway was predominately dry but with patches of 'black ice' present during the mid-morning, weekend crash. The case vehicle (2006 Kia Sorento, 4-door SUV) was traveling westbound in the number-two (left) lane. The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts, first row frontal impact air bags and roof rail mounted curtain side impact air bags. The 50-year-old female driver (case subject) and the 47-year-old female front right seat passenger were both using the belt restraints. As the subject negotiated the slight, uphill, left curve she crossed a bridge overpass. Apparently, the bridge was slick and as the vehicle crossed it, its rear-end began slipping from side to side ('fish-tail'). The subject steered the vehicle left, ultimately, and the vehicle entered into a counterclockwise yaw as it traveled off of the roadway to the left (south). The vehicle had rotated approximately 100-degrees relative to its original heading direction as it crossed the paved shoulder and left the roadway. The vehicle rode up onto a slightly raised dirt embankment with its right side leading. The vehicles right wheels 'tripped' at the top of the embankment and the vehicle launched approximately 11m before landing first, on its left top (left roof rail). The vehicle overturned an estimated 6 quarter-turns (continued another 14m) before coming to rest on its top facing south. The vehicle's roof rail mounted curtain side impact air bags did not deploy. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. The subject (driver) and the additional occupant were transported to a trauma facility due to varying degrees of injury, with the subject's more serious.