This case involved a belted, 36-year-old female driver of a passenger car responding to a near-side impact (centered) with the front of an SUV. The case subject's seat back mounted side impact air bag did not deploy in the 9 o'clock, moderate severity crash. This two-vehicle crash occurred on a four-lane, undivided, east/west trafficway traveling through a residential area. There were two lanes for travel in each direction divided by painted double yellow solid lines. For westbound traffic the roadway was curved right and had a slight uphill grade. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the afternoon, weekend crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2002 Volkswagen Jetta, 4-door sedan) was traveling westbound in the number-one (right) lane. There were two occupants of the case vehicle. The 36-year-old female driver (case subject) was using the belt restraint based on physical evidence. The 9-year-old male second row right seat passenger was determined to also have been using the seat's belt restraint. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2004 Toyota 4Runner, 4-door utility vehicle) was also traveling westbound in the number-one lane, behind V1. The driver of V1 decided to make a U-turn maneuver and began to slow and put on her right signal as she moved to the shoulder. The driver of V2 observed this and believed V1 was pulling to the curb. The driver of V2 changed lanes to the left (into the number-two lane) and proceeded to pass by V1 just as V1 began to negotiate the U-turn. V1 traveled into the path of V2 and the front of V2 struck the left side of V1, centered in the driver's door. The 9 o'clock principal direction of force impact (to V1) deflected V1 to the right, laterally, where it came to rest across the eastbound number-two lane facing south. V1's seat back mounted side impact air bag did not deploy. V2 was deflected slightly to the left where it came to rest across the center dividing lines facing southwest. Both vehicles were towed from the scene with V1's disposition being due to disabling damage. The case subject (driver of V1) was transported to a trauma facility with serious injuries. The second row right seat passenger was transported and released with a minor injury (bruised right cheek).