This case involved the unbelted 28-year-old male driver of a compact car responding to a full frontal plane (under-riding) impact with the back of a medium/heavy bus. The 12 o'clock PDOF deployed the subject's frontal impact air bag, resulted in severe vehicle damage and serious injury. This two-vehicle crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a multi-lane, divided, interstate. The four lanes for northbound travel had an uphill incline. The roadway was bordered to the right (west) by a paved shoulder. The weather was clear and the concrete roadway dry during the nighttime (dark-street lights) weekday crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2005 Toyota Scion xB, 5-door hatchback) was traveling northbound in the number-one lane (right). The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts (pretensioner) and first row frontal impact air bags (advanced). The 28-year-old male driver (case subject) was not using the belt restraint based upon physical evidence. There was one additional occupant in the case vehicle. A 28-year-old male, seated in the front right passenger position, was using the belt restraint based on physical evidence. The opposing vehicle (V2, 1979 MCI MC9 Bus (passenger transport) was traveling northbound in the number-one lane. Only the driver was present in the vehicle. V1 approached V2 from behind. V2 was in the process of slowing and pulling off of the roadway onto the shoulder, to the right. The subject (driver V1) did not realize that V2 was slowing, misjudged the distance, and drove into the back of the slower moving bus, while still in the number-one lane. The front of V1 struck the rear of V2 and under-rode the vehicle significantly. V1's frontal impact air bags deployed. V2 continued forward and pulled off to a controlled stop on the right shoulder. V1 was left in the number-one lane facing north after becoming dislodged from under V2. V1 was towed due to disabling damage. V2 was also towed from the scene. Both the case subject (driver V1) and the front right seat passenger were transported to a trauma facility due to serious injuries.