This case involved the belted female driver of a pickup responding to a near-side impact with a utility vehicle. The subject's vehicle also overturned onto its top plane. The vehicle sustained severe damage in the 10 o'clock principal direction of force impact and resulted in serious injury to the subject. This two-vehicle crash occurred in the four-way intersection of adjacent streets. The three-lane, east/west trafficway, had a single lane for continuous traffic; and designated left turn lanes separated by painted yellow double lines. There was an uphill grade from west to east. The five-lane, north/south trafficway had two lanes for continuous travel and designated left turn lanes separated by painted yellow double lines. There was a downhill grade from north to south. Both trafficways were straight on their approach to the intersection, which was controlled by tri-color traffic signals. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadways dry during the afternoon, weekend crash. The Case vehicle (V1, 2002 Toyota Tacoma, 4-door pickup) was traveling eastbound on its approach to the intersection with the intention of traveling straight through. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row frontal-impact air bags. The 51-year-old female driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint, based on physical evidence. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2004 Lincoln Aviator, 4-door utility vehicle) was traveling southbound in the number-one (right) lane on its approach to the intersection with the intention of traveling straight through. The vehicles entered the intersection simultaneously, and the front of V2 struck the left plane of V1. The impact deflected V1 to the right (southeast), with V2 pushing it. The vehicles separated as V1 overturned onto its right and top planes, as it came to rest within close proximity of impact and its 'tripping' point. V2 came to rest facing southeast in the northbound lanes. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The subject was transported to a trauma facility with serious injuries.