This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 51 year old female restrained driver of a 2004 Chevrolet Tracker 5-door sport utility vehicle. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of a frontal collision with a large diameter tree. Vehicle 1 was northbound on a two lane rural roadway and proceeding straight. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. The driver allowed the vehicle to cross the centerline and depart the left (west) pavement edge in a forward tracking mode. Vehicle 1 entered a private yard as the front left area subsequently impacted a 56.0 cm (22.0 in) diameter tree resulting in moderate damage. Upon impact, the vehicle rotated counterclockwise and came to rest (in close proximity to point of impact) straddling the west pavement edge of the roadway facing northwest. The restrained 51 year old female driver of the 2004 Chevrolet Tracker was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat track adjusted to a mid-to-forward position. Restraint usage was confirmed by the loading evidence documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, knee bolster, and deployed driver frontal airbag. Scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the makeup transfers documented on the face of the membrane. At this point, the driver loaded through the deployed frontal airbag and deformed the upper portion of the steering wheel rim. Compression of the steering column was also noted. During post-impact counterclockwise vehicle rotation to final rest, the driver struck the center console and gear shift. This occupant trajectory was evidenced by the lateral displacement found on these components. Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center with serious injuries and admitted for treatment. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.