This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 70 year old male driver of a 2007 Nissan Frontier SE King Cab 4x4 pickup truck. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an offset frontal impact with a 1997 Chevrolet Tahoe 4-door 4x4 sport utility (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was westbound on a two-lane rural roadway and proceeding straight. Vehicle 2 was eastbound on the same roadway and negotiating a right curve. It should be noted that Vehicle 1 was pulling a trailer and boat. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. Vehicle 2 exited the curve (into the straightaway), and continued in a forward tracking mode across the centerline. Vehicle 2 entered the westbound lane, across the path of Vehicle 1. The front left area of Vehicle 1 was impacted by the front left area of Vehicle 2, which resulted in moderate damage (event #1). At this point, the trailer separated at the hitch (fixed linkage) and struck the tailgate of Vehicle 1 resulting in minor damage (event #2). Evidence indicated there was no impact between the boat and Vehicle 1. The initial impact re-directed Vehicle 1 to the northwest. Vehicle 1 exited the north pavement edge of the road and came to rest in a private yard facing northwest. Vehicle 2 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest in close proximity to the point of impact (in the road) facing north. The restrained 70 year old male driver of the 2007 Nissan Frontier SE pickup truck was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat track adjusted to a full rearward position. Restraint use was evidenced by the fabric transfers and loading marks documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact #1, the driver initiated a forward (and slightly lateral) trajectory in response to the 11 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, knee bolster, and deployed driver frontal air bag. Scuff marks were identified on the driver knee bolster. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented on the face of the membrane. Although no rim deformation was noted, minor column compression was found. Following the crash, both occupants of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. The treatment status of the restrained 52 year old female front right passenger was unknown. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.