This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 25 year old male driver of a 2004 Dodge Dakota Club Cab 4x2 pickup truck. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an offset frontal impact with a 1996 Jeep Grand Cherokee Limited 4x4 sport utility (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was westbound on a two-lane rural roadway and proceeding straight. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. Vehicle 2 was eastbound on the same roadway, and subsequently entered the westbound lane; across the path of Vehicle 1. As Vehicle 2 entered the westbound lane, the front right area impacted the front right area of Vehicle 1. The impact resulted in severe damage to each vehicle. At this point, both vehicles rotated clockwise and began their respective post-impact trajectories to final rest. Vehicle 1 came to rest in the eastbound lane facing northwest, and Vehicle 2 came to rest off the north pavement edge of the road facing northwest. The restrained 25 year old male driver of the Dodge Dakota was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the fabric transfers and loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, knee bolster, and deployed driver frontal airbag. Indentations and scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation noted to the aft reinforcement frame. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the smudge mark documented on the face of the membrane. The driver loaded through the deployed driver airbag and deformed the steering wheel rim. Deformation to this component measured 9 cm along the top rim and 2 cm at the bottom rim. Column compression measured 6 cm; as column movement measured 6 cm left (laterally), and 3 cm upward (vertically). Following the crash, both occupants of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local trauma center with serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 1 was admitted for further treatment as the restrained 27 year old female front right passenger expired shortly after arrival. The restrained 55 year old female driver of Vehicle 2 was also transported to a local trauma center with serious injuries (treatment status unknown), as the restrained 82 year old female front right passenger was pronounced deceased at the scene. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.