This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 65 year old male front right passenger of a 2004 Pontiac Grand Am sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which did not deploy as a result of an oblique angle collision with a 1989 Toyota Camry Deluxe (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 2 was southbound in the outboard lane of a multi-lane urban roadway and proceeding straight. Vehicle 1 was northbound on the same roadway and turning left at a 3-leg intersection, across the path of Vehicle 2. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. As Vehicle 1 crossed the southbound lanes, the right side surface was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2 resulting in moderate damage. At impact, Vehicle 1 rotated slightly counterclockwise and came to rest in the southwest sector of the intersection facing southwest. Vehicle 2 came to rest in close proximity to the point of impact also facing southwest. The restrained 65 year old male front right passenger of the 2004 Pontiac Grand Am was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat track adjusted to a mid-to-rear position. Restraint usage was confirmed by the loading evidence documented on the front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the passenger initiated a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 3 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, B-pillar, and right front door interior surface. Scuff marks were identified on the mid and upper portions of the B-pillar cover panel. The seat back and cushion were deformed and compressed by lateral intrusions. The left aspect of the center console (armrest) and parking brake were bent to the right, as matted fabric was noted on the left aspect of the right front seat back. This combination of associative evidence was indicative of driver compression against the front right passenger during the initial occupant kinematic. Additional scuff marks were documented on the right aspect of the (upper and lower) center console, attributed to the passenger's left hip and lower extremity areas. Following the crash, the front right passenger of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center with serious injuries and admitted for treatment. The restrained 59 year old female driver of Vehicle 1 was reported by medical personnel as uninjured in the crash. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage. Although towed from the crash site, Vehicle 2 was reported by police as driveable.