The case occupant for this case is a 79 year old female driver of a 2000 Ford Taurus SE. She weighed 63 kg (140 lbs) and was 154 cm (5' 1") tall at the time of the crash. The case vehicle (V1) was eastbound on a two-lane roadway and negotiating a left curve. The driver failed to negotiate the left curve and allowed the vehicle to depart the right (south) pavement edge. As the vehicle departed the right pavement edge, the right front wheel/tire struck the barrier curb resulting in moderate damage. Vehicle 1 continued in a forward tracking mode as the front right area subsequently struck a utility pole which resulted in moderate damage. At this point, Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise and came to rest in the eastbound travel lane facing southeast. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage. The case vehicle was equipped with redesigned frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which did not deploy as a result of this crash. The reconstructed barrier delta-v for the case vehicle was estimated at 21.1 mph (34 km/h) with a PDOF of 0 degrees. The case occupant was the only vehicle occupant and was restrained by the available lap and shoulder belt. The driver sustained multiple injuries as a result of the crash, with an MAIS of 4 and an ISS of 34. The case occupant suffered from a subdural hemorrhage, right 6th-10th rib fractures, a left 9th rib fracture, a right lung contusion, L3-L4 facet fractures, T6-T12 transverse process fractures, L1-L2 transverse process fractures, a major facial skin laceration, a skin contusion and skin abrasion on the chest, a skin abrasion on the right hip, a skin contusion on the abdomen, and a skin abrasion on the left thigh. During the crash, the case occupant moved forward in a direction equal and opposite of the PDOF. She loaded the seatbelt, evidenced by the D-ring loading mark on the seatbelt and contusion/abrasion injury pattern, and struck the steering wheel with her head, evidenced by the steering wheel deformation and the matching laceration pattern on the occupant's forehead. The occupant's subdural hemorrhage was attributed to steering wheel head strike as well as the major facial skin laceration. The rib fractures, lung contusion, and chest and abdomen contusions and abrasions, were caused by the occupant loading the shoulder belt webbing. The L3-L4 facet fractures, T6-T12 transverse process fractures, and L1-L2 transverse process fractures were all attributed to the occupant's spine being in flexion during the impact event. It is hypothesized that the occupant's pelvis was held in place by the lap belt, while the occupant loaded the shoulder belt and steering wheel, putting her spine in flexion. The skin abrasions on the hip and left thigh were attributed to the lower portion of the 3-point restraint.