This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 9 year old female rear center child passenger, and restrained 13 year old male rear right child passenger, of a 2003 GMC K-1500 Sierra SLE Crew Cab (4-door) 4x4 pickup truck. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an offset frontal impact with a concrete ditch culvert (event 2). Vehicle 1 was southbound on a two-lane rural roadway and negotiating a right curve. It was dark (street not lighted), with cloudy weather conditions. Although the road surface was reported by police as dry, the driver stated that it had rained just prior to the crash. Vehicle 1 entered the straight-away and subsequently departed the right (west) pavement edge of the road. As the vehicle entered a shallow drainage ditch, the right front wheel/tire struck a rock resulting in minor damage (event 1). The initial impact did not alter the vehicle's trajectory as it continued in a southwesterly direction along the ditch. Vehicle 1 approached a private driveway and the front right area impacted a concrete culvert (event 2). The override configuration allowed the culvert impact to continue past (below) the vehicle's bumper structure and into the undercarriage area, resulting in moderate damage. At this point, Vehicle 1 began to rotate sharply clockwise and traversed the private driveway. The culvert impact, in conjunction with the sudden rotation, induced a roll moment as the vehicle's center of gravity was tipped outboard of its wheels. This initiated a 2-quarter turn left side rollover ("bounce-over"), which resulted in moderate top damage (event 3). During the rollover, a small diameter post and mailbox were struck resulting in minor right side surface damage (events 4 & 5). Vehicle 1 came to rest off the west pavement edge of the roadway (in a private yard) on its top facing southwest. The restrained 9 year old female rear center child passenger of the 2003 GMC K-1500 Sierra pickup was presumed to be seated in an upright posture. Restraint use was confirmed by the loading marks documented on the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. The initial rock impact was minor in nature; however, it may have placed the occupant out of position (forward). At impact 2, the child passenger initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint and (front row) center console armrest. Possible teeth marks (patterned imprint) were identified on the fabric of the console armrest. Adjacent to the contact site, light transfers of skin tissue were found. During the roll moment, the occupant kinematic was re-directed to the left. The restrained 13 year old male rear right child passenger of the 2003 GMC K-1500 Sierra pickup was presumed to be seated in an upright posture. Restraint use was confirmed by the loading marks documented on the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. The front right seat was adjusted to a full rearward track position, with the seatback slightly reclined. The initial rock impact was minor in nature; however, it may have placed the occupant out of position (forward). At impact 2, the child passenger initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint and right front seatback. Torn fabric and a localized fracture were identified on the upper right seatback. A small indentation was also found along the mid seatback, and adjacent to the fracture site. During the roll moment, the occupant kinematic was re-directed to the left. Following the crash, the front right adult passenger and (three) rear-seated child passengers were transported to a local trauma center. The restrained 39 year old male driver was transported to a local hospital for treatment of minor injuries and released. The restrained 36 year old female front right passenger, and restrained 9 year old female rear left child passenger, were treated and released. The restrained 9 year old female rear center and restrained 13 year old male rear right child passengers were admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.