This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 66 year old female front right passenger of a 2003 Ford Taurus SES sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with advanced frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal airbag deployed as a result of a frontal impact with a large diameter tree (asymmetrical frontal airbag deployment). Vehicle 1 was eastbound on a two-lane rural roadway and traveling downhill on approach to a 4-leg intersection. It was dark (street not lighted), with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 traversed the 4-leg intersection in a forward tracking mode and subsequently exited the roadway into a private yard (end departure type). The frontal area (below the bumper structure) impacted the ground (event 1) resulting in minor damage. Vehicle 1 ascended the yard into a wooded area. The right side surface sideswiped two trees (events 2 & 3) which resulted in minor damage. At this point, the front left area struck a large diameter tree resulting in moderate damage (event 5). Minimal crush was sustained along the front bumper structure as engagement continued down the left side surface to the left front wheel/tire. Just prior to event 5, the top surface was scratched from branches protruding outward/downward from the tree trunk (event 4). Maximum engagement at the axle area (from event 5) initiated a counterclockwise rotation to vehicle final rest. Vehicle 1 came to rest in close proximity to the final point of impact (off the east pavement edge of the roadway) facing north. The restrained 66 year old female front right passenger of the 2003 Ford Taurus SES was presumed to be seated out-of-position leaning forward and to the left. The front right seat was adjusted to a full rearward track position. Restraint use was confirmed by the loading evidence identified on the available front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Contact evidence documented during the interior vehicle inspection suggested that the passenger may have "grabbed the steering wheel" in response to the (police reported) driver loss of consciousness. Impacts 1 through 4 were minor in nature and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the front right passenger. At impact 5, the front right passenger initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. The passenger's abnormal posture allowed the upper torso to come out of the shoulder belt as the head struck the rear-view mirror and adjacent windshield area. The rear-view mirror was broken off the windshield mount and the component glazing was fractured. Concentrated areas of hair strands and skin tissue were identified within the "spider-web" fractures on the windshield (no header contact noted). Slight displacement of the center console was also found (lower extremity contact). Although the climate control knobs were noted to be missing, no significant loading evidence was documented along the center instrument panel area. Following the crash, both occupants of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local hospital. The unrestrained 67 year old male driver was reported by medical personnel as treated and released. The front right passenger was subsequently transferred to a nearby trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.