This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 54 year old female driver of a 2005 Mercedes Benz C240 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions. Vehicle 1 was also equipped with side impact (torso) and curtain airbags for the outboard seating positions. The left side impact airbags and left curtain airbag deployed as a result of an acute angle collision with a 1999 Ford Econoline van (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was initially stopped and facing north on the inboard lane and attempting to turn left (west) at an urban 3-leg ("T") intersection. Vehicle 2 was eastbound and proceeding straight on approach to the same intersection. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 entered the intersection to turn left (west), across the path of Vehicle 2. The left side surface was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2 resulting in moderate damage. At this point, Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest in the north sector of the intersection facing southwest. Vehicle 2 came to rest in the east sector of the intersection facing east. The restrained 54 year old female driver of the 2005 Mercedes Benz C240 was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat track adjusted to a mid-to-rear position. Restraint usage was confirmed by the loading evidence documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver initiated a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 10 o'clock impact force and loaded the deployed side impact and curtain airbags. Interaction with the deployed side impact and curtain airbags were evidenced by the scuff marks and smudges identified on the inboard face of each membrane. It should be noted that no contact evidence was found on the left front door interior surface. Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center with serious injuries and admitted for treatment. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.