This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 78 year old female driver of a 2003 Subaru Legacy L wagon. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions (non-deployed). Vehicle 1 sustained moderate damage as a result of an oblique angle impact with a 1999 Chevrolet Suburban 4x4 sport utility (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was initially stopped and facing southeast in the west leg of a rural 4-leg intersection. Vehicle 2 was southbound and negotiating a right curve, on approach to the 4-leg intersection. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by stop signs for east/westbound vehicles. Vehicle 1 entered the intersection in an attempt to turn left (north), across the path of Vehicle 2. As Vehicle 1 entered the intersection, the left side surface was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2 which resulted in moderate damage (event 1). At this point, both vehicles began their respective post-impact trajectories into the southwest sector of the intersection. Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise and departed the right pavement edge as the back left area struck a mailbox, resulting in minor damage (event 2). Both vehicles came to rest in a private yard in the southwest sector of the intersection. Vehicle 1 came to rest facing east, as Vehicle 2 came to rest facing southwest. The unrestrained 78 year old female driver of the 2003 Subaru Legacy was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat track adjusted to a mid-to-forward position. The lack of restraint use was confirmed by the absence of loading evidence on the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. In addition, the webbing was found restricted in the retracted (stowed) position by lateral component intrusions. At impact, the driver initiated a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 9 o'clock impact force and loaded the left side interior surface. Indentations and scuff marks were identified on the left front door, and attributed to extremity interaction. Scratch marks were documented along the left mid B-pillar, as the adjacent (outboard) seat back taper was deformed. Following the crash, the driver was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.