This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 28 year old female front right passenger of a 2006 Ford Ranger Super Cab 4x2 pickup truck. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions (non-deployed). Vehicle 1 sustained moderate right side damage as a result of overlapping (simultaneous) tree impacts (events 1-5). Vehicle 1 was westbound on a six-lane divided interstate highway and proceeding straight in the center travel lane. It was daylight, with rainy weather conditions as the road was wet. Vehicle 1 reportedly broke traction on the wet pavement and began to hydroplane towards the center median in a counterclockwise rotation. Vehicle 1 subsequently departed the left (south) pavement edge and entered the center wooded median. As Vehicle 1 entered the wooded area, the right side surface impacted a cluster of four (closely-spaced) trees resulting in moderate overlapping damage. The fourth tree struck was uprooted and struck the right rear side surface in a non-horizontal manner (event 5). Vehicle 1 came to rest in close proximity to the tree cluster (in the median) facing southeast. The restrained 28 year old female front right passenger of the 2006 Ford Ranger pickup truck was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat track adjusted to a full rearward position. Restraint use was confirmed by the post-crash condition of the front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, which was found restricted in the used/out position by lateral component intrusions. At impact, the front right passenger initiated a lateral trajectory in response to the 3 o'clock impact force and loaded the right side interior surface. Indentations and scuff marks were identified along the right door, and attributed to lower extremity interaction. A concentration of scratch and scuff marks were documented along the mid right B-pillar and right rear window frame. Deformation to the inboard taper of the front right seat back indicated possible driver penetration into the front right occupant space. This kinematic may have compounded any possible (partial) ejection of the front right passenger through the disintegrated right rear window glazing. Following the crash, both occupants of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local trauma center. The front right passenger was admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. The treatment status of the restrained 25 year old male driver was unknown. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.