This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 72 year old male driver of a 2003 Dodge Grand Caravan SE. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of a frontal collision with a large diameter tree (event 2). Vehicle 1 was northbound on a (level) two-lane rural roadway and proceeding straight. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. The driver allowed the vehicle to depart the right (east) pavement edge in a forward tracking mode. The front center area subsequently struck a mailbox (and post), resulting in minor damage. The initial impact did not alter the vehicle's trajectory as it continued in a northerly direction towards a wooded area. The front right area impacted a large diameter tree, which resulted in moderate damage (event 2). Vehicle 1 rotated slightly clockwise and came to rest against the final point of impact facing northeast. The unrestrained 72 year old male driver of the 2003 Dodge Grand Caravan SE was presumed to be seated upright, with the seat track adjusted to a full rearward position. The lack of restraint use was confirmed by the absence of loading evidence on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, relative to the extent of contacts within the front occupant space. Impact 1 was minor in nature, and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the driver. At impact 2, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the knee bolster and deployed driver frontal airbag. An indentation and scuff mark were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation noted to the aft reinforcement frame. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the smudge mark documented on the upper right quadrant of the membrane face. At this point, the driver loaded through the deployed frontal airbag, and deformed the upper portion of the steering wheel rim. Associated column compression, and (vertical/lateral) column movement were also identified. The driver's head subsequently struck the rear-view mirror, evidenced by the fractured component glazing and separation from the windshield mount. Hair strands and skin tissue were noted deep within the mirror-glazing fractures. This contact pattern continued into the adjacent windshield (no header contact found) where more concentrated areas of hair strands and skin tissue were documented. Extensive blood pooling along the right front floor/door area suggested a driver final rest position slumped over to the right, and across the front seat cushions (head/torso to the right against the door panel). Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital. The driver of Vehicle 1 was subsequently transferred to a trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.