This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 49 year old male driver of a 2004 Chrysler PT Cruiser. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of a frontal collision with a large diameter tree (event 3). Vehicle 1 was eastbound on a two lane rural roadway and negotiating a left curve. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. The driver initially allowed the vehicle to partially depart the right (south) pavement edge. Driver steering input re-directed the vehicle towards the left (north) pavement edge in a slight counterclockwise rotation. Vehicle 1 departed the north pavement edge, entered a ravine, and encountered a steep drop-off which pitched the front end slightly downward. The vehicle subsequently entered a wooded area as the frontal area impacted large brush (event 1), resulting in minor damage. The front center area then struck a small diameter tree (event 2), which resulted in additional minor damage. At this point, the front left area impacted a large diameter tree (event 3), resulting in severe damage. Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise off the tree as additional direct damage noted across the roof structure indicated sustained contact with this object (event 4). The right rear side surface struck an adjacent large diameter tree (event 5), which resulted in minor damage. Vehicle 1 impacted the ground (event 6) as the vehicle came to rest (upright) in the ravine facing southwest. The restrained 49 year old male driver of the 2004 Chrysler PT Cruiser was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint usage was confirmed by the extensive loading evidence documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. In addition, the cinch bar integral to the light weight locking latchplate design was found deformed from loading forces. Impacts 1 and 2 were minor in nature and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the driver. At impact 3, the driver of initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, knee bolster, and deployed driver frontal airbag. Scuff marks and indentations were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation noted to the aft reinforcement frame. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the smudge mark (partially masked by blood spattering) documented on the face of the membrane. At this point, loading of the steering column displaced this component vertically upward 7 cm, as column compression measured 5 cm at the shear capsules. It should be noted that no steering wheel rim deformation was found. Toepan intrusion resulted in extensive penetration of the brake and accelerator pedals into the driver space. Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center with serious injuries and admitted for treatment. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.