This near-side impact case involves a 19 year old female driver, not wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, with a deployed frontal air bag who sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred in the westbound lanes of an interstate freeway, during daylight hours under snowy weather conditions. In the area where the crash occurred, there are two west and two eastbound concrete travel lanes, divided by an unprotected grass median. There are paved asphalt shoulders on both sides of the westbound lanes, and on the north side, there is a grassy embankment that slopes away from the freeway, leading to a very small creek lined with trees. In V1's precrash area, the westbound lanes are level, curve to the right, and at the time of the crash were covered with snow and slush. Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Isuzu Rodeo four door compact utility vehicle, was westbound in the westbound travel lanes and negotiating the curve right when the driver lost control of the vehicle, began to rotate clockwise and departed the roadway to the right. V1 traveled down the embankment while still in a clockwise yaw, crossed the small creek and the left side of V1 impacted a tree, resulting in the deployment of both frontal air bags. This impact was near the front hinges of V1's left front door and resulted in severe crush and intrusion into the passenger compartment. Nearly simultaneously, the left front of V1 impacted the second tree, and the left rear door area impacted a third tree. V1 came to final rest against the trees, facing northeast. V1 was towed due to damage. The case occupant is the driver of V1, a 19 year old female, who was not restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. Her steering column mounted frontal impact air bag deployed during the crash. This driver was entrapped in the vehicle and had to be extricated by fire/rescue personnel. She sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center for treatment. The front right passenger in V1 was a 16 year old male who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His instrument panel mounted frontal air bag deployed during the crash. He sustained minor injuries and his treatment status is unknown.