This case occupant is a 37 year old female driver, wearing a manual lap/shoulder belt, who was involved in a moderate frontal collision with a frontal air bag deployment, followed by a minor rollover event. This occupant sustained serious injuries. This single vehicle crash occurred at night with no overhead lights on an interstate freeway with rainy weather and wet roadway conditions. In the area where the crash occurred, the three concrete westbound travel lanes have a downhill grade and are separated from the three eastbound lanes by a wide grassy median. There are paved shoulders adjacent to the concrete travel lanes and an asphalt emergency turnaround area connecting the east and westbound lanes with a ditch/culvert on both sides. Vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Ford Focus four door sedan, was westbound in the center westbound travel lane, when a large tarp became unsecured from a non-contact commercial vehicle traveling ahead of V1. The driver of V1 braked and steered left with the tarp wrapped around V1 that caused the driver to lose control of the vehicle. V1 departed the roadway to the left into the grassy median while in a slight counterclockwise yaw. The front of V1 then impacted the ditch/culvert, resulting in the deployment of the driver's frontal impact air bag and actuation of the left front seat belt retractor pretensioner. V1 rotated counterclockwise and its right lower sill impacted the top edge of the ditch. As V1 traveled up and over the turnaround, with the tarp still partially wrapped around the vehicle, V1 began to rollover to the right. V1 completed four quarter turns across the emergency vehicle turnaround and came to final rest in the grassy median just north of the turnaround, on its tires, facing southeast. V1 was towed due to damage. The case occupant is the driver of V1, a 37 year old female, who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. During the initial crash event, the steering column mounted front air bag deployed and the left front seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated. This driver sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center for treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle.