This frontal crash case involves a 46 year old restrained front right male passenger with a deployed frontal air bag who sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred during daylight hours on a two lane, two way, undivided highway. At the time of the crash, it was clear and the asphalt travel lanes were dry. In the area where the crash occurred, there are paved shoulders adjacent to the travel lanes and a wide business driveway located on the east side of the street. In the case vehicle's precrash area, the lanes are level and curve to the left. The case vehicle one (V1), a four door sedan 2003 BMW 530i, was traveling north in lane one and was negotiating the left curve. V1 departed the roadway to the right and traveled over dirt and patchy grass before crossing the business driveway. V1 continued north and began to travel back onto the roadway. In this section of the highway, the lanes begin to straighten out and then curve to the right. V1 crossed over both travel lanes and departed the highway to the left where the front of V1 struck a large tree. V1 rotated slightly counterclockwise before coming to final rest near the tree, facing northwest. V1 was towed due to damage. The case occupant is a 46 year old male passenger of V1 in the front right position who was restrained with the manual lap/shoulder belt. This case occupant's seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated, and the front instrument panel mounted air bag deployed. This case occupant sustained severe injuries and was transported to the trauma center where he was hospitalized. Non case occupants included the driver of V1 who was a 35 year old male who was not restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His frontal steering column mounted air bag deployed on impact and he was fatally injured. The second row right side passenger was a 22 year old male who was not restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. He sustained severe injuries and was also transported to the trauma center where he was hospitalized.