The case occupant is a 63 year old female front right passenger, wearing the available lap/shoulder belt, with frontal and right side curtain air bag deployments, who was involved in a moderate frontal crash. She sustained serious injuries. There were two other occupants in the vehicle. This crash occurred just past midnight, in darkness with overhead street lights on a seven lane, two-way street, just west of an intersecting roadway. Vehicle one (V1), a 2010 Chevrolet Traverse four door large utility vehicle, was traveling east in lane two when the driver began to have a medical event. V1 traveled across lane one and departed the roadway to the right. V1 traveled up and over the south curb, continued a short distance and the front right of V1 impacted a utility pole, shearing the pole from its base. The impact resulted in the actuation of the driver and front right passenger's seat belt retractor pretensioners and the deployment of both the frontal and left/right roof rail side curtain air bags. V1 rotated approximately 140 degrees clockwise and V1's left front impacted a guy wire, resulting in minor damage. V1 continued rotating and the left side impacted a second guy wire, also resulting in minor damage. V1 came to final rest, facing southwest, with its back end hanging over the southwest curb and the rest of the vehicle still off the roadway, on the sidewalk. V1 was towed due to damage. The case occupant is the front right passenger of V1, a 63 year old female, who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. Her seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and her instrument panel mounted frontal impact air bag and right roof side rail mounted side curtain both deployed during the crash. This occupant sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. The 72 year old male driver was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated, and his steering column mounted frontal air bag and left roof side rail mounted side curtain both deployed during the crash. The 16 year old female second row right side passenger was not wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. Her right roof side rail mounted side curtain deployed during the crash. Both the driver and the second row passenger were injured and were transported to a local hospital for treatment.