This crash occurred during daylight hours with clear, dry conditions. Vehicle one (V1-case vehicle), a 1994 Geo Prism four door sedan was westbound on a two way, two lane street with room for parking in the curb lanes. Vehicle two(V2), a 1985 Chevrolet Suburban four door utility, was eastbound on the same roadway and attempted a left turn into a driveway when the front left of V2 impacted the front left of V1. No avoidance was made by either vehicles. The height of V2's front bumper impacted over V1's bumper into the hood, left A-pillar, and then down the left side into the driver and second passenger doors at the level of the window frames. Since V2 was turning left it then began to rotate counterclockwise during this continuous impact and then rolled over on to the right side and then to the roof top. The impact forced V1 rearward to the east rotating it clockwise to final rest on the east side of the driveway on the side walk where the front left tire impacted a curb. When V2 was on its roof top the front of V2 slightly impacted V1 again on the left side back quarter panel at final rest. The case occupant in V1 is a 2 year old male, who was restrained in a forward-facing child seat with a five point harness in the second left passenger seat. Contact marks from the child seat were noted on the door panel that also intruded laterally as V2 swiped down the side of V1. The location of the contacts by the child seat on the door panel also suggested some movement forward and was loosely secured with the lap/shoulder belt. The belt system appear not to be locked in the switchable automatic locking mode, and the locking clip was found still attached to the back of the child seat. This case occupant was transported to the trauma center. Other occupants in V1 include a 35 year old male driver of V1 who was lap/shoulder belt restrained and had a frontal airbag deployment and transported to the trauma center. A six year male child was lap/shoulder restrained and seated in the second right position and not injured.