This moderate severity frontal crash involved a 67 year old female driver who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt with a seat belt retractor pretensioner actuation and frontal steering column, seat back and roof side rail air bag deployments. She sustained serious injuries in the crash. This crash occurred in a curve of a six lane, two way roadway, with a center turn lane, during daylight hours, while it was raining. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Nissan Quest minivan, was northbound in lane 2 of 3, negotiating a left curve in the roadway. Vehicle three (V3), a 2001 Subaru Legacy sedan, was also northbound in lane 2 just ahead of V1 in the curve. Vehicle two (V2), a 1990 Toyota pickup truck was southbound in an unknown travel lane with the roadway curving to the right, crossing through an intersection. V2 crossed over the center lane and continued through and beyond this intersection as the roadway continued to curve right. V2 then began traveling in the opposite lanes and the front of V2 impacted the left side of V3 in the northbound lane two. This impact spun V3 counterclockwise 200 degrees and V3 came to final rest in lane 2, facing southeast. V2 continued forward after impact with V3 and was now almost in the northbound lane two when the front of V2 impacted the front left half of case V1. From the point of impact V1 was pushed backwards and rotated counterclockwise, coming to final rest facing northwest in lane 2. V1 rotated counterclockwise post impact and came to final rest facing east across lanes 2 and 3. All vehicles involved were towed from the scene. The case occupant is the driver of V1, a 67 year old female, who was wearing the manual lap/shoulder belt with the pretensioner actuating. The frontal steering column, seatback mounted, and left roof side rail air hags all deployed in her seated position. She sustained serious injuries and was taken to a local hospital before being transferred to the trauma center. A passenger in V1, a 76 year old male, was seated in the front right seat wearing the manual lap/shoulder belt. His seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and the instrument panel mounted airbag deployed. He sustained minor injuries and did not receive any medical treatment. No other occupants were in V1.