This rollover collision involved two front seat case occupants. The first case occupant is a 24 year old male driver who was restrained with a manual lap/shoulder belt with a frontal impact air bag deployment who sustained serious injuries. The second case occupant is a 31 year old female front right passenger who was restrained with a manual lap/shoulder belt with a frontal impact air bag deployment and sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred on a two lane, one way interstate highway during the pre-dawn hours in darkness with overhead street lights. The weather was clear and the concrete surface was dry. Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Dodge Neon SRT-4 four door sedan was westbound in an area of the highway that curved to the left with an uphill grade. There are paved asphalt shoulders on either side of the roadway, and adjacent to the south shoulder is a large area under construction with a foundation comprised of medium sized rocks. The driver of V1 was traveling in lane one while negotiating the curve to the left and lost control of the vehicle. V1 began to go into a counterclockwise yaw, crossed over lane two and departed the roadway to the left. V1 traveled across the rocky bed while still in a yaw and its right fender impacted a signpost, shearing it from its base. V1 continued sliding sideways, impacting the rocks with the right front tire, until the tire dug into the rock bed and tripped the vehicle into a rollover. V1 rolled over to the right ten quarter turns off the roadway before coming to final rest on its top, facing southeast on another on ramp that merges with the highway. V1 was towed due to damage. The driver of V1, a 24 year old male, was restrained with the manual lap/shoulder belt. His steering wheel mounted front air bag deployed during the crash. This driver sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. The 31 year old female front right passenger was restrained with the manual lap/shoulder belt and her frontal instrument panel mounted air bag deployed. She sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center.