This near-side impact crash case involves a 28 year old restrained female second row right side passenger with a deployed side curtain air bag who sustained severe injuries. This crash occurred during evening hours in a four legged intersection controlled by traffic signals. The two way north-south roadway consists of three level asphalt lanes, one for northbound vehicles, one for southbound vehicles and a center left turn only lane. The intersecting east-west asphalt two-way roadway consists of two lanes with parking lanes on both sides of the street. There is an uphill grade for vehicles heading west and a downhill grade for vehicles traveling east. At the time of the crash, there were clear weather conditions and dry roadways. It was dark but the intersection was illuminated by overhead street lights. The case vehicle one (V1), a 2009 Toyota Camry four door sedan, was traveling west in the westbound lane and vehicle 2 (V2), a 2002 Chevrolet Venture four-door minivan, was traveling south on the intersecting street. V1 and V2 entered the intersection and the front of V2 impacted the right side of V1, resulting in the deployments of V1's front right seat back mounted and right side curtain air bags. V1 traveled a short distance west while rotating nearly 180 degrees clockwise and came to final rest in the eastbound travel lane, facing northeast. V2 continued a short distance south and came to final rest near the southwest corner, facing southwest. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene. The case occupant is the 28 year old female passenger of V1 in the second row right seating position who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. This case occupant's right roof side rail mounted curtain air bag deployed. She sustained severe injuries and was transported to the trauma center. There were three other occupants in the case vehicle. The driver and front row right side passenger in V1 were 27 year old females, and the second row left side passenger was a 26 year old male. All three were restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belts, and the front right seat back mounted side air bag deployed during the crash. The driver sustained minor injuries and did not seek medical treatment. The front right and second row left passengers sustained minor injuries and were transported to the trauma center for treatment.