This case occupant is an 84 year old female front right passenger, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, with a frontal air bag deployment who was involved in a moderate frontal crash. This passenger sustained severe injuries. This crash occurred during daylight hours in the eastbound travel lanes of a two lane, one way freeway. At the time of the crash, there were clear weather conditions and dry travel lanes. In the area where the crash occurred, the two asphalt lanes curve to the left with an uphill grade. Vehicle one (V1), a 2008 Chevrolet HHR four door hatchback, was eastbound in lane one, approaching the curve in the roadway. Vehicle two (V2), a 1991 White GMC Volvo cab-over-engine medium/heavy garbage truck, was traveling east in lane one, ahead of V1. V1 approached V2 at a higher rate of speed and although the driver of V1 braked and steered left, the front right of V1 impacted the back left of V2, resulting in the deployment of V1's frontal air bags and the actuation of the front row seat belt retractor pretensioners. During the impact, V1 underrode V2, causing V2 to contact V1's right windshield header and A pillar. A portion of V2 intruded through V1's windshield into the passenger compartment and came in contact with the frontal passenger air bag cover flap and the deploying passenger air bag, resulting in tears to the air bag fabric. V1 rotated slightly counterclockwise and came to final rest in lane one, facing northeast. V2 came to a controlled stop on the south freeway shoulder. V1 was towed due to damage. V2 was driven from the scene. The case occupant in V1 is the front row right side passenger, an 84 year old female, who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. Her seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and her top instrument panel mounted frontal air bag deployed. This case occupant sustained severe injuries and was transported to local hospital and then transferred to the trauma center where she was hospitalized. The driver, seated in the front left seat, was a 65 year old male who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His steering column mounted frontal air bag deployed and his seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated. He sustained minor injuries in the crash and his medical treatment status is currently unknown.