This case occupant is a 59 year old male driver, wearing a manual lap/shoulder belt, who was involved in three minor to moderate frontal collisions followed by a moderate rollover event and who sustained serious injuries. This single vehicle crash occurred during evening hours, in darkness with overhead street lights, under cloudy weather and wet roadway conditions. Vehicle one (V1), a 2008 Subaru Outback four door station wagon, was westbound in lane one of a two lane, two way state highway. The asphalt travel lanes have no curbs and are bordered by gravel shoulders. In V1's precrash area, the roadway is level and curves to the left prior to straightening out as it intersects with another roadway. As V1 negotiated the curve, it began to depart its travel lane to the right. V1 crossed over the intersecting roadway and departed the roadway to the right. The front right of V1 struck a wooden stop sign post, shearing the post from its base and resulting in minor damage to V1. V1 continued traveling west off the roadway through a grassy field and the front left of V1 impacted a breakaway metal light post, shearing the pole from its base, resulting in moderate sideswipe damage down the left side of V1. Then V1's left front tire impacted the concrete base surrounding the pole, resulting in moderate tire damage. The tire impact caused V1 to rotate counterclockwise. As V1 rotated while continuing west, V1's right tires dug into the ground, V1 began to tip and started to rollover with its right side leading. V1 rolled over to the right and completed eleven quarter turns before coming to final rest in the grassy area, facing southeast on its left side. V1 was towed due to damage. The case occupant is the driver of V1, a 59 year old male, who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. During the rollover event, the front right seat back mounted side air bag and the right roof side rail mounted curtain air bag deployed. This driver sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center for treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle.