This crash occurred at night with no street lights on a two lane, two way highway with a posted speed limit of 55mph/89kmph. It was raining with wet bituminous surface. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Ford Focus 4-door sedan was in the eastbound lane and negotiating a curve left in the roadway. Vehicle two (V2), a 1990 Jeep Cherokee 4-door utility vehicle, was westbound and negotiating the same curve to the right. A deer darted into the roadway forcing V2 to swerve right on to the paved shoulder. V2 then swerved back left and began to rotate counterclockwise almost 90 degrees as it crossed over the centerline in to the opposite eastbound lane. The front of V1 then impacted the right side front half of V2. This then cause V2 to continue to rotate counterclockwise causing the right side back of V2 to impact on the left side of V1. From this point of impact V2 was then forced laterally back across the westbound lane and on to the north side paved shoulder where the front left tire and fender impacted a guard rail as it came to final rest facing northeast. From the point of impact with V2, case V1 was forced off the roadway to the right as it rotated counterclockwise almost 180 degrees coming to final rest in the ditch facing northwest. Both vehicles had disabling damage and were towed from the scene. Case V1 had total of five occupants. Three case occupants were positioned in the front right, second row left and second row middle seats. The front right case occupant was a 39 year old female who was restrained properly with a manual lap/shoulder belt and the frontal instrument panel mounted air bag deployed. This occupant was transported to a local hospital with serious injuries. The second seat left case occupant was a 15 year old female who was restrained by the manual lap/shoulder belt and appeared to have the shoulder belt placed behind her back. This occupant was transported to a local hospital with serious injuries. The second seat middle case occupant was a 13 year old female who was restrained by the manual lap/shoulder belt and appeared to also have the shoulder belt placed behind her back. The non-case occupants included the driver, a 44 year old male, who was restrained properly with a manual lap/shoulder belt and the frontal steering column mounted air bag deployed. This driver was transported to the local hospital with moderate injuries. The non-case occupant seated in the second seat right was an 86 year old female who was restrained by the lap/shoulder belt and was fatally injured and deceased on scene.