The case occupant is a 53 year old female driver, wearing a manual lap/shoulder belt, who was involved in a severe frontal impact.. The case occupant's seat belt buckle pretensioner actuated, her frontal impact air bag deployed and she sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred on a two lane, two way east/west roadway during evening hours, in darkness, with dry roadway and clear weather conditions. In the area where the crash occurred, the westbound asphalt travel lane curves to the left with a downhill grade and the eastbound lane curves to the right with an uphill grade. On the north side of the travel lanes there is a narrow paved shoulder, followed by a gently sloped area leading to a dirt embankment. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2008 Hyundai Sonata four door sedan, was traveling west in the westbound lane and Vehicle 2 (V2), a 1996 Nissan Maxima four door sedan, was traveling east in the eastbound lane. Both vehicles were negotiating the curve when V2 crossed the center yellow double lane lines and entered V1's travel lane. V1's front impacted the front right of V2, resulting in the actuation of the case occupant's seat belt buckle pretensioner and the deployment of her frontal air bag. The two vehicles rotated towards one another and the left side of V1 impacted the right side of V2. V1 continued to rotate clockwise and its front right impacted the dirt embankment, resulting in minor damage. V1 came to final rest partially off the roadway, facing north, with its front end against the embankment. V2 continued to rotate counterclockwise and its right front impacted the embankment, resulting in minor damage. V2 came to final rest completely off the roadway, facing northwest, with its right front up against the embankment. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant in V1 is a 53 year old female driver who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt with a seat belt buckle pretensioner actuation. Her frontal steering column mounted air bag deployed during the crash. This case occupant sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. No other occupants were in V1.