BACKGROUND: This case was initiated in response to a report of a 52 year old female passenger, of a 2002 Honda Civic, who was injured in a motor vehicle crash. She was admitted to a hospital and, subsequently, then admitted to a trauma center. Collision Type: A vehicle versus vehicle (angle impact / front versus side) TECHNICAL SUMMARY: This two vehicle collision occurred on a two-lane roadway. The posted speed limit for Vehicles 1 and 2 was 81 KPH (50 MPH). This north/south roadway is graded, curved and free of any defects. It was daylight at the time of the crash; however, it was raining and the roadway surface was wet. The overall physical environment is rural. Vehicle 1, a 2002 Honda Civic, was being driven northbound by a 54 year old male driver. The driver was restrained by the available lap and shoulder restraint, and the vehicle was equipped with a driver's frontal impact air bag (steering wheel mounted), which deployed during the impact with Vehicle 2. The right front occupant was the 52 year old female case occupant, who was restrained by the available lap and shoulder restraint. The vehicle was also equipped with a passenger's frontal impact air bag (top instrument panel mounted) which deployed during the frontal impact. There was also a 7 year old female occupant, who was seated in the 2nd row, middle area, in a child safety seat (unknown make and model). Vehicle 2, a 2001 Volkswagen Jetta, was being driven southbound by a 22 year old male driver. There were no additional occupants in Vehicle 2. Vehicle 2 was partially inspected (exterior only). The collision occurred when the driver of Vehicle 2 lost control of the vehicle and went into a counterclockwise rotation. While Vehicle 2 was rotating, it crossed over into the northbound travel lane as it traveled southbound in the left turning curve. Vehicle 1's frontal plane struck Vehicle 2's right side (rear quarter panel) in the northbound travel lane (angle impact). After the impact, Vehicle 1 rotated slightly counter clockwise and came to a final rest in the northbound travel lane near the point of impact, facing north. Vehicle 2 was redirected by Vehicle 1 and rotated clockwise approximately 215 degrees from the point of impact. Vehicle 2 traveled in a southeasterly direction approximately 18 meters (60 ft) and impacted a fence on the east side of the roadway with its left side. Vehicle 2's final rest position was up against the fence, facing northwest. The driver of Vehicle 1 sustained incapacitating injuries. The rear occupant suffered non-incapacitating injuries. They were both transported to a local hospital; however, it is not known if they were hospitalized or treated and released. The right front occupant of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) sustained minor to major injuries. She was transported to a local hospital where she was admitted for treatment. After eight days in the local hospital she was transferred to a trauma center where she was admitted for treatment and observation. The case occupant was released from the trauma center after eight days. The driver of Vehicle 2 sustained non-incapacitating injuries. He was transported to a local hospital, but his course of treatment, if any, is not known. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed from the collision scene due to the damage sustained in this crash.