Case Focus: The case occupant is a 19 year old, restrained, female driver of a 2002 Ford Focus 4-door sedan, which was involved in a two vehicle collision (intersection related). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two vehicle collision occurred during the early afternoon hours (daylight) of a summer weekday. The crash occurred at the intersection of a four lane roadway and a two lane roadway. The four lane roadway runs generally north and south. The two lane roadway intersects the north/south roadway on the east side forming a "T-type" intersection with the eastern leg as the base leg of the intersection. The northern leg of the intersection did not play a part in the crash. The intersection, as well as the roadway surfaces, are bituminous and relatively free of defects. The north/south roadway has a grade of 1.0 % (positive for the northbound travel direction) and curves from right to left as it passes through the intersection. The two lane intersecting roadway is heavily graded (negative for the westbound travel direction), but levels out just before the intersection (bottom of a hill). Access into the intersection from the intersecting eastern leg is controlled by a stop sign (not obscured). The weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. The intersection edges are curbed. The posted speed limit for the north/south roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). The posted speed limit for the intersecting roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). The overall physical environment is business/industrial in nature. Vehicle 1 (case vehicle), a 2002 Ford Focus 4-door sedan, was being driven by a 19 year old female case occupant. She was restrained by the available 3-point, manual lap and shoulder belt. Sitting in the front right seating position was a 10 year old female of unknown height and weight. She, too, was restrained by a 3-point, manual lap and shoulder belt. Vehicle 1 was traveling westbound on the two lane, intersecting roadway, approaching the intersection from the east. The driver intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling south. Vehicle 1 is noted to have both driver's and passenger's frontal impact air bags and buckle-type pretensioners. Vehicle 2, a 1996 Saturn SL2 4-door sedan, was being driven by a 21 year old male of unknown height and weight. As reported by the police accident report (PAR), this occupant was allegedly wearing the available, manual lap and shoulder belt (based upon belt stretching). There were no other occupants present. The driver of Vehicle 2 was traveling northbound in the number two (left through) travel lane, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling north. Vehicle 2 is noted to be originally equipped with frontal air bags. Vehicle 2 is also equipped with a sensing diagnostic module (SDM), which was accessed during the course of the investigation. It should be noted that the module was able to record a change in Delta V, but also experienced a power failure as result of the crash. The driver's belt switch circuit status was recorded as unbuckled, but was likely affected by the power failure (reverts back to a default value of "unbuckled" status even if the belt was buckled). Crash: As the driver of Vehicle 1 approached the intersection, she slowed in response to the stop sign, but continued into the intersection in order to turn left. It is believed, based upon an eyewitness account, that a turning vehicle (heading east) may have blocked the driver's view to the approach of Vehicle 2. Both Vehicles 1 and 2 entered the intersection at the same time. Vehicle 2's frontal plane struck Vehicle 1's left side plane (Event 1) in a right angle type of collision. The driver of Vehicle 2 is believed to have steered left just prior to impact. As Vehicle 1 was pushed laterally sideways, its right side tires de-beaded and the rims gouged into the bituminous surface causing Vehicle 1 to trip and roll about the longitudinal axis. Vehicle 1's suspension was already rolling right as a consequence to the left turning maneuver (Event 2). Vehicle 1 departed the westside of the intersection and struck a post and wire fence with its undercarriage as it rolled to rest (Event 3). Vehicle 1 is believed to have rolled 4 quarter turns, coming to rest on its wheels, facing a southerly direction. Vehicle 2 had rotated counter-clockwise, slightly less than 90 degrees, and came to rest in the intersection, facing in a westerly direction. As expected, the frontal impact air bags for Vehicle 1 did not deploy for any events in this crash. Post-Crash: Emergency medical services (EMS) personnel responded to the scene and proceeded to remove the driver's side door of Vehicle 1. The case occupant (who witnesses reported to be in her seating area, but slumped over) was removed and transported, by air, to a local trauma center. She was hospitalized and released on the 28th day post crash. The 10 year old front right passenger of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land, to a local hospital with non-incapacitating injuries. She was subsequently treated and released. The driver of Vehicle 2 was not reported to be injured or transported. He was able to exit his vehicle under his own power. It is not known if he sought any medical treatment post crash. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed from the scene due to sustained crash damage.