Case Focus: This case was initiated in response to a report of a 56 year old female driver, of a 2002 Nissan Altima (Vehicle 1), who was injured in a two-vehicle, offset frontal crash. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred at an intersection of two, straight, multi-laned roadways, during the morning hours (daylight), of a summer weekday. The main, north/south roadway consists of five bituminous travel lanes. For both travel directions, there are two through lanes leading up and through the intersection as well as dedicated left tun. The east/west roadway, at the eastern leg of the intersection is composed of four travel lanes. The northern leg of the intersection did not play a part in the crash. The intersection and the roadways leading into the intersection were relatively level and free of defects. The posted speed limit for the north/south roadway is 64 Km/h (40 mph). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, a 2002 Nissan Altima, was being driven northbound, in the left through lane, by the 56 year old female driver (case occupant). She was approaching the intersection from the south and intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling north. She was restrained by an available 3-point, lap and shoulder belt. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with driver's and passenger's frontal impact air bags and roof side rail curtains. Vehicle 2, a 2002 Ford F-250 large pick-up truck, was being driven by a 32 year old male driver. The driver of Vehicle 2 was traveling south, in the left turn lane and was attempting to turn left at the intersection in order to continue traveling east. Vehicle 2 was not inspected. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time. The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) observed the approach of Vehicle 2 and attempted to brake in order to avoid a collision, but was unsuccessful. Vehicle 1's frontal plane struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 in an offset fashion. After the initial impact, both vehicles rotated slightly counterclockwise before coming to rest within the intersection. As a result of this impact, the frontal impact air bags for Vehicle 1 deployed. The status of Vehicle 2's frontal impact air bags is unknown. Post Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) sustained minor to serious injuries in this crash. She was transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center (CIREN) where she was admitted for treatment and observation. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured and was not transported from the scene. The extent of his injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed from the scene due to the damage sustained in this collision.