Case Focus: The case occupant is a 77-year old male driver, of a 2007 Hyundai Accent (2-door hatchback), which was involved in a moderate far-side impact and a minor frontal impact. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours of a summer weekend at a crossover of a seven-lane trafficway. This trafficway is composed of three westbound lanes (two through lanes and a left turn lane) and four eastbound lanes (three through lanes and a left turn lane). A grass median separates the two roadways. The trafficway is straight, but has a greater than 2% grade (negative for the westbound direction). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the bituminous roadway surfaces were dry. There were no viewing limitations and the overall environment was urban in nature. The posted speed limit, for both roadways, was 72 km/h (45 mph). The 77-year old case occupant was driving Vehicle 1, a 2007 Hyundai Accent 2-door hatchback, in the number three westbound lane (turn lane). He intended to make a u-turn at the crossover area of the trafficway and continue traveling east. He was restrained by a manual, 3-point lap and shoulder belt. There were no other occupants present. A 16-year old male was driving Vehicle 2, a 2002 Ford Taurus 4-door sedan, in the number two eastbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling eastbound. An 18-year old male and a 15-year old female occupied the right front and right rear seating positions respectively. Crash: As Vehicle 2 approached the crossover area, the driver of Vehicle 1 initiated a u-turn. The driver of Vehicle 2 braked and steered right, but was unable to avoid the collision. The frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 1. Vehicle 2 came to rest, straddling the number one and two eastbound travel lanes, still facing east (frontal impact air bags deployed). As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1 spun around (clockwise), slightly less than 180 degrees. For unknown reasons, the driver of Vehicle 1 continued to apply the gas pedal and Vehicle 1 continued on, in a northerly direction. Vehicle 1 crossed all the eastbound lanes, through the crossover and all of the westbound lanes before departing the north side of the trafficway. At this time, Vehicle 1 struck a curb with its right front and right rear wheels/rims before striking a parked 2006 Volkswagen Beetle convertible with its frontal plane. As Vehicle 1 came to rest, it struck and sideswiped a small pole with its left side plane. As a result of its impact with Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1's right, roof side rail mounted, curtain air bag deployed. The driver's frontal impact air bag also deployed, likely during its impact with the parked vehicle, but the curb impact(s) could not be ruled out as another possibility. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported from the scene, by a land unit, to a local trauma center (CIREN) and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The three occupants of Vehicle 2 were reported to be uninjured and were not transported from the scene. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.