BACKGROUND: Description: This case was initiated in response to a report of a 20 year old female, who was injured in a motor vehicle crash and subsequently admitted to a trauma center. She is 168 centimeters (66.0 in) tall and weighs 66 kilograms (145 lbs.). Vehicle 1 was a 1999 Honda Civic. Collision Type: A vehicle vs. vehicle (head-on configuration) TECHNICAL SUMMARY: This two-vehicle collision occurred on a two-lane roadway. The posted speed limit for Vehicles 1 and 2 was 56 KPH (35 MPH). The east/west roadway is graded, curved, and free of any defects. It was daylight at the time of the crash; however, it was raining and the roadway surface was wet. The overall physical environment is urban (residential). Vehicle 1, a 1999 Honda Civic, was being driven westbound by the 20 year old female driver (case occupant). The driver was restrained by the available lap and shoulder restraint, and the driver's frontal air bag that deployed during the impact with Vehicle 2. Vehicle 2, a 2004 Jeep Grand Cherokee, was being driven eastbound by a 23 year old female driver. There were no additional occupants in Vehicle 2. Vehicle 2 was not inspected. The collision between Vehicles 1 and 2 occurred when Vehicle 1 crossed over into the eastbound travel lane as it was traveling westbound in a right turning curve. Vehicle 1 struck Vehicle 2's front end with its frontal plane (head-on configuration) in Vehicle 2's travel lane (eastbound travel lane). After the impact, Vehicle 1 was pushed rearward by Vehicle 2 and rotated counterclockwise to its final rest position. Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise approximately 70 degrees from point of impact with Vehicle 2 to its final rest position in the eastbound travel lane, facing southwest. Vehicle 2 rotated counterclockwise and impacted a guard rail on the south side of the roadway with its right rear corner. Vehicle 2's final rest position was up against the guard rail, facing northeast. The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) sustained minor to serious injuries and was transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center (CIREN), where she was admitted for treatment and observation. Total length of stay was 4 days. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed from the collision scene due to the damage sustained in this crash.