Case Focus: This case was initiated in response to a report of a 30 year old male driver (case occupant), of a 2004 Ford Mustang (Vehicle 1), who was injured in a two-vehicle crash. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred on a two-lane roadway, near the entrance of a private driveway, during the afternoon hours of a winter weekday (daylight). The posted speed limit for both travel directions is 81 km/h (50 mph). The northbound travel lane, prior to the crash area, is graded and straight, while the southbound travel lane is level and straight. At the time of the crash the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry and free of defects. Vehicle 1, the 2004 Ford Mustang, was being driven south by the 30 year old male driver (case occupant). The driver was restrained by an available 3-point lap and shoulder belt. The vehicle was equipped with both driver's and passenger's frontal impact air bags, which deployed as a result of the frontal impact. There was a 50 year old male passenger occupying the right front seating position. He too was restrained by his respective 3-point lap and shoulder restraint. Vehicle 2, a 1994 Jeep Grand Cherokee, was being driven by a 40 year old female driver. The driver of Vehicle 2 was attempting to turn left into the private driveway entrance located on the west side of the roadway. Vehicle 2 was not inspected. Crash: Vehicle 2 initiated her left turn as Vehicle 1 approached from the north. As a result, Vehicle 1's frontal plane struck Vehicle 2's frontal plane in an off-set frontal impact. After the impact, Vehicle 1 was redirected off the travel portion of the roadway, where it came to final rest, facing a southerly direction. Vehicle 2 was re-directed into a counterclockwise rotation until it reached its final rest position, south of the point of impact, in the southbound travel lane, facing a southeasterly direction. Post Crash: The driver (case occupant) of Vehicle 1 sustained minor to serious injuries in this crash. He was transported to a local hospital, by air, then was transferred to a trauma center where he was admitted for treatment and observation. The right front passenger of Vehicle 1 sustained non-incapacitating injuries in the crash. He was also transported to a local hospital, by air unit, but his course of treatment, if any, is not known. The driver of Vehicle 2 reportedly sustained non-incapacitating injuries in this crash. She was transported to a local hospital, by air unit as well, but her course of treatment, if any, is not known. Both Vehicles were towed from the scene due to the damage sustained in this collision.