Case Focus: This case was initiated in response to a report of a 42 year old male driver (case occupant), of a 2000 Ford Crown Victoria, who was injured in a motor vehicle crash and subsequently admitted to a trauma center. TECHNICAL SUMMARY: Pre-Crash: This three-vehicle collision occurred on a two-lane east/west roadway. The posted speed limit for the east/west roadway is 80 Km/h (50 mph). The westbound travel lane has a right turning curve. The eastbound travel lane curved left, but both travel lanes are level and free of any defects. Vehicle 1, a 2000 Ford Crown Victoria, was being driven westbound on the two-lane roadway by the 42 year old male driver (case occupant), who was restrained by the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder restraint. The vehicle was also equipped with a driver's frontal air bag which deployed during the crash. Vehicle 1 had an additional occupant who was located in the right rear seating position. This occupant was a 46 year old male that was restrained by the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder restraint. Vehicle 2, a 2000 Dodge Dakota club cab pickup, was being driven eastbound on the two-lane roadway by a 17 year old male driver, who was reportedly restrained by the available 3-point lap and shoulder restraint. The vehicle was also equipped with a driver's frontal air bag which reportedly deployed during the crash. Vehicle 3, 2003 Dodge Ram quad cab pickup w/ trailer, was being driven westbound on the two-lane roadway by a 33 year old male driver, who was reportedly restrained by the available 3-point lap and shoulder restraint. The vehicle was also equipped with a driver's frontal air bag which reportedly deployed during the crash. Seated in the right front seating position was a 13 year old male. It was reported that this occupant was also restrained by a lap and shoulder restraint and the passenger's frontal air bag deployed during the crash. Crash: The driver of Vehicle 2 apparently lost control of the vehicle while attempting to negotiate the left turning curve. The vehicle traveled over the centerline, into the westbound travel lane and struck Vehicle 3's left side with its front plane. Vehicle 2 continued to travel eastbound and impacted the trailer that was being pulled by Vehicle 3. During the impacts with Vehicle 3 and the trailer, Vehicle 2 ramped up onto its two right side wheels and continued to travel in an easterly direction. As Vehicle 1 was traveling westbound, it was impacted on its left side by the left side wheels/tires/undercarriage of Vehicle 2 which were in the air at the time of impact. This impact to Vehicle 1 was non-horizontal in nature. As the two vehicles passed each other, Vehicle 1 was crushed laterally and vertically inward. After the impact, Vehicle 1 came to a final rest position in the westbound travel lane, west of the point of impact, facing northwest. Vehicle 2 continued east and came to a final rest position approximately 69 meters (125.0 ft) from the point of impact, facing southeast. Post Crash: Additional damage to Vehicle 1 occurred during the extrication of the driver. The fire department personnel removed the doors and cut the roof off the vehicle. The 42 year old male driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) sustained minor to major injuries in this crash, and was transported, by air, to a trauma center for treatment. He was released from the trauma center on the tenth day post-crash (total 9 days). Vehicles 1 and 2, as well as the trailer of Vehicle 3, were towed from the scene due to the damage sustained in this collision. Vehicle 3 was driven from the scene.