This case involved a belted, male driver responding to a frontal impact with a parked passenger vehicle.

This single vehicle crash occurred on a four-lane, undivided, roadway in the midst of a curve. The east/west roadway has two lanes for travel in each direction separated by painted double yellow lines. There was parallel parking allowed along both sides of the roadway, which was bordered by curbs. For westbound travel there was a straight section of road followed by a left curve. The road was relatively level in this direction. A vehicle was parked (unoccupied) along the north curb in the curve. The weather was clear and the roadway dry during the early morning (dark - streetlights), weekend crash.

The case vehicle (1998 Honda Civic, 4-door sedan) was traveling westbound in the number-one lane at an undetermined speed on the straight stretch of roadway. The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts in the outboard positions, and driver and passenger frontal impact air bags. The 18-year-old, male, driver (case subject) was using the belt restraint. There were two additional occupants of V1, a 17-year-old, male, front right seat passenger who was belted and an 18-year-old male, second row, left seat passenger who was not belted (seated behind driver/subject).

Physical evidence suggests that the driver of V1 had begun to negotiate the left curve when he realized that he would not be able to complete the curve, and miss the parked vehicle ahead, at the rate of speed he was traveling. The driver locked the brakes, however, the vehicle slid into the rear of the parked vehicle with the front of the case vehicle striking the back left of the parked vehicle (1995 Chevrolet Camaro, 2-door coupe). The vehicle's frontal impact air bags deployed. The impact propelled the parked vehicle forward and to the left, with a 160-degree counterclockwise rotation, where it came to rest in the roadway facing east. The case vehicle rotated slightly counterclockwise and moved laterally into the curb with its right lower side striking the curb. The case vehicle came to rest there against the curb facing southwest.

Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The driver (subject) was transported to a trauma facility due to 'severe' injury as rated by police. The front right seat passenger was not reported as injured while the second row, left seat passenger sustained lacerations to the top of his head but was not transported for treatment from the scene.