This case involved a belted female driver responding to a frontal impact into the side of an on-coming pickup with air bag deployment.

This crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a four-lane, divided, interstate. There were two lanes for travel in each direction divided by a wide dirt median protected by a guardrail in the center. The eastbound lanes were straight with a negative grade. The weather was clear and the concrete roadway was dry during the nighttime (dark-not lit), weekday crash.

The case vehicle (V1, 2003 Mitsubishi Galant, 4-door sedan) was traveling eastbound in the number-two lane (left) at a police reported (estimated) 113 kmph, down the hill. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts, and driver and passenger frontal impact air bags. The driver (subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint.

The opposing vehicle (V2, 2004, Chevrolet S-10, 3-door extended cab pickup) was traveling westbound in the center median on the south side of the guardrail (wrong way). V1 was occupied only by the driver, who was reported as not belted.

There was a third vehicle (V3, 2000 Toyota Sienna, minivan) involved in the crash sequence, but it did not make contact with the case vehicle. V3 was traveling eastbound in the number-one lane, adjacent to, and slightly behind, V1 at a police reported (estimated) 101 kmph. There were two passengers in V3, both reported as belted.

V2 was traveling the wrong way in the median and had swerved into the eastbound lanes at least once prior to the crash site. V2, traveling rapidly in the dirt median, made a steering maneuver to the left sending V2 into a counterclockwise yaw as it traveled into the eastbound lanes and into the path of V1. V2 was positioned sideways to eastbound traffic when the front of V1 struck the right rear half of V2. The impact rotated V2 clockwise and dislodged the bed from the cab. V1's air bags deployed. The impact caused V1 to rotate clockwise 160-degrees as it continued east and came to rest in the number-two lane facing southwest. V2, having separated from V1, continued into the number-one lane and the front of V3 struck the front right of V2. This impact separated the bed from the cab of V2. The front half of V2 and V3 continued southeast and came to rest on the right (south) shoulder. The bed of V2 came to rest west of the point of impact in the traffic lanes.

All three vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The driver of V1 (subject) was transported to a trauma facility due to 'severe' injury as rated by police. The driver of V2 was completely ejected during the crash and was transported to a trauma facility where he was pronounced fatal two hours after the crash. The driver of V3 was transported to a trauma facility due to 'other visible injury' as rated by police. The second passenger of V3 was not reported as injured.