The case vehicle 2001 Honda CRV, 4-door SUV was equipped with three point manual lap and shoulder belt restraints in the outboard positions. The vehicle was also equipped with frontal impact driver and passenger airbags, which did deploy. Injuries and vehicle inspection suggested that the occupant was using the belt restraint system.



The 165 cm. (5'5 "), 78 kg. (172 lb.), 62-year-old female occupant was seated in the right front passenger seat. The bucket seat cushion was found positioned fully rearward and the seat back slightly reclined.



As the occupant moved forward and slightly right to the 1:00 principal direction of force, her face contacted the airbag (makeup and possible skin transfer) resulting in nasal and upper and lower lip contusions. Striations of her right forehead abrasions/contusions suggested she overrode the deflating airbag and contacted a linear surface, possibly the A-pillar. In addition to causing her forehead soft tissue injuries, this may have also resulted in her C5 and C6 vertebral body fractures. A-pillar contact may have also been responsible for her right eyelid contusion and abrasion.



The passenger heavily loaded the belt system. The driver reported trying to unbuckle the seat belt but said it was extremely tight and the first responders had to cut it in two places to extricate the patient. She probably fulcrumed over the shoulder portion of the belt and distraction and shear resulted in a T8 vertebral body fracture with complete cord transection. Additionally, she may have also leaned over the right door sill as it intruded, accentuating the flexion. The spinal fracture was responsible for complete transection of the descending thoracic aorta in the adjacent area.



A seat belt abrasion extending from her right chest to her sternal notch (6" x 1/2") and transverse abdominal contusions were evident on autopsy.



Belt loading probably caused her right neck muscle hemorrhage, bilateral rib fractures (left 1-5, right 2-8), right pneumothorax, sternal fracture, and multiple and extensive splenic lacerations. Her multiple liver lacerations could have been from the seat belt or possibly from her rib fractures.



Her right arm loaded the door resulting in right upper arm contusions, a right elbow abrasion and right hand and wrist contusions.



She sustained right hip and thigh contusions from door loading and lateral compression was possibly responsible for her right pelvic fracture (no x-rays available). However, because an x-ray is not available, axial loading is also a possibility.



Loading the toe pan (intruded) was probably responsible for her bilateral foot contusions, right ankle contusion, right ankle dislocation, right distal tibia and fibula fractures (just above ankle joint), and left open tibial shaft fracture with laceration over medial left ankle. Intrusion of the kick panel forward of the right A-pillar may have played a role in some of the right lower leg injuries.



Loading of the glove compartment door (intruded and deformed) resulted in bilateral knee contusions and axial loading was possibly responsible for her right femur shaft fracture, because an x-ray is not available, lateral compression from door loading is also possible.



She also sustained right parietal, occipital and frontal scalp contusions, bilateral chest wall contusions, left hand and wrist contusions, and left lower leg contusions.