This case involved the belted driver of a small pickup with air bag deployment responding to a frontal, off-set left, impact with the front of a left turning passenger car. The patient sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred at the three-way intersection of a five-lane trafficway and a community driveway. The east/west trafficway had two lanes for travel in each direction divided by a raised curb median and a left turn lane to access the community driveway, which adjoined from the south. The trafficway was straight and there was a downhill grade from west to east. The weather was clear and the bituminous trafficway dry during the afternoon weekday crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2002 Toyota Tacoma, 2-door extended cab pickup) was traveling eastbound in the number-one lane (right). V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts first row outboard frontal impact air bags. The 46-year-old male driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint (based on physical evidence). The opposing vehicle (V2, 1997 Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme) was traveling westbound and had stopped in the left turn lane, facing uphill, short of the driveway. An uninvolved vehicle came up behind V2 and waited but V2 did not move forward. The vehicle proceeded to go around V2 and made the left turn into the driveway. As V1 approached the intersection a vehicle made a left turn in front of it with out incident. V2 then, suddenly, began to negotiate the left turn and drove into the path of V1. The driver of V1 observed this in time to apply the brakes hard, locking them up. The front left of V1 struck the right front of V2. V1's frontal impact air bags deployed. The impact deflected V1 to the right (south) as it rotated V2 counterclockwise, approximately 100-degrees, where the vehicles struck a second time, V1's left to V2's right plane. V1 came to rest in the southeast corner of the intersection facing southeast, while V2 continued its counterclockwise rotation until it was facing west in the eastbound number-one lane. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The driver of V1 (case subject) was transported to a trauma facility due to 'severe' injury(s) while the driver of V2 declined treatment at the scene.