This case involved a front right seat passenger responding to a frontal undercarriage impact with an embankment and subsequent two quarter-turn bounce over sequence with frontal impact air bag deployment. This single vehicle crash occurred on the westbound side of a four lane, divided, interstate traveling through a rural area. The east/west trafficway had two lanes for travel in each direction divided by a wide, depressed median. At the site of the incident the north roadside consisted of a paved shoulder and then a downward embankment. The south roadside consisted of a paved shoulder and a curb followed by a steep downward embankment with a steep back slope forming a "V" shaped median depression. For westbound traffic the roadway had an upward grade and gradual left curve. It was raining heavily and the bituminous roadway wet during the afternoon (daylight) weekday crash. The case vehicle, a 2005 Nissan Sentra 4-door sedan, was traveling westbound. The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and driver and passenger frontal impact air bags. The 48-year-old female driver and the 76-year-old male front right seat passenger (case subject) were determined to have been using the belt restraints. As the driver negotiated the uphill left curve through the run-off flowing across the roadway, the vehicle began to lose its friction with the roadway surface allowing the vehicle's back to slide to the left. The back left tire may have been shredded but continued contact with the curb. Eventually, the vehicle vaulted off of the left (south) roadside and launched approximately 30 meters across the depressed median to the back slope where the front right undercarriage and wheel absorbed the brunt of the 1st landing forces. The impact caused the frontal impact air bags to deploy. The vehicle rebounded from the impact by rotating counterclockwise where the right plane, above the beltline, made contact with the embankment. The vehicle continued its counterclockwise motion and fell to the bottom of the V-shaped depression, landing on its wheels. It appears the vehicle did not rotate about its longitudinal axis, rather it rotated around its vertical axis. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. Both occupants were transported to a trauma facility due to minor to moderate injuries.