This case involved a front right seat passenger responding to a near side impact with frontal impact air bag deployment. This crash occurred on a four lane, divided, east/west, traffic way. There were two lanes for travel in each direction divided by a painted median. The street was straight and level. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway was dry during the afternoon, weekday crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2003 Pontiac Grand Am, 4-door sedan) was traveling eastbound in the number-one lane (right) at a police reported (estimated) 77 kmph. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and front row, frontal impact air bags. The vehicle was occupied by a 36-year-old female driver and the 15-year-old, male front right seat passenger (case subject). It was determined (inconclusively) that the subject and driver were using the belt restraints. The opposing vehicle (V2, 1995 Ford "Semi" pulling one trailer) was also eastbound in the number one lane and had come to a stop behind traffic. The driver of V1 had been conversing with the passenger and may have been distracted prior to recognizing that the tractor-trailer was stopped in front of her. The driver of V1 swerved hard to the left in an effort to avoid the trailer and almost made it. However, the V1 struck the back left corner of the trailer with its right front corner. The vehicle's right front plane, at the lower level, contacted the left corner of the underride bar with an, almost purely, longitudinal principal direction of force. This aspect of the crash sheared off V1's right fender and snagged the right front wheel, tearing it loose from the axle and driving it rearward. According to the police crash report, the impact bent the trailer's anti-decapitation bar onto the back left wheels and broke the trailer's back left axle. V1 continued forward as the bar bent and the back left corner of the trailer contacted V1's right A-pillar and windshield. V1 rotated clockwise 180-degrees as it disengaged from V2 and came to rest, on its wheels, in the median facing west. V1's frontal impact air bags deployed. V1 was towed due to disabling damage and both occupants were transported to a trauma facility. The case subject (front right passenger) had 'severe' injuries as rated by police including maxilla and mandible fractures. The driver sustained 'other visible injury' as rated by police consisting of complaints of pain. The tractor (V2) was driven from the scene while the trailer was towed due to disabling damage. The driver (sole occupant) of V2 was not injured.