This case involved a belted, pregnant, driver responding to a frontal (extreme left offset) impact with a guardrail. This crash occurred on the northbound side of a multi-lane interstate. The trafficway had four lanes for travel in each direction divided by guardrails, and oleander bushes to reduce visual distraction. The median shoulder was paved and the northbound lanes were straight and relatively level. The weather was clear and the concrete roadway dry during the afternoon, weekday crash. The case vehicle (2005 Ford Expedition, 4-door SUV) was traveling northbound in the number-four lane with the cruise control set. The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and driver and passenger frontal impact air bags. The 30-year-old female driver (case subject) was using the belt restraint (based on 'other than physical evidence'). There was one additional passenger a 6-year-old female was seated in the second row, center seat, using the lap and shoulder belt restraint. The driver had the cruise control set to 112.6kmph. Her left leg was on the seat cushion tucked under her right knee and her right foot was on the floor but not the gas pedal. The driver experienced a sudden anxiety, causing her hands to shake. Alarmed, she attempted to apply the brake to release the cruise control but hit the gas pedal instead. The vehicle's acceleration further alarmed her and as she pulled her left leg out from under the right she inadvertently bumped the steering rim, causing the vehicle to veer right, into the adjacent lane (northbound number-three). The driver then steered left and applied the brakes quickly resulting in the vehicle entering into a counterclockwise yaw that carried her across the median shoulder and into the guardrail, striking it with the front left. The impact tore the vehicle's front left wheel off and rotated the vehicle counterclockwise. The right rear wheel absorbed an impact as the vehicle rotated off of the guardrail. The vehicle slid in a northwesterly direction and struck the guardrail with its front right as it came to rest against it facing west. The vehicle's frontal impact air bags did not deploy. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. The subject (driver) was transported to a trauma facility.