This case involved a belted driver responding to a right side leading 12 quarter-turn rollover crash. The patient sustained serious injuries. This single vehicle crash occurred on an interstate transition ramp traveling through an urban area. The two-lane, one-way trafficway was elevated, curved left and had a grade decline. As the ramp nears its juncture with the adjoining interstate, the right lane merges into the left and the ramp becomes a single lane in the midst of a left curve, and then straightens out to meet the interstate. At this point the right (north) roadside consisted of a paved shoulder followed by a slight ditch and an uphill, natural, embankment. The weather was clear and the concrete roadway was dry during the dusk, weekday crash. The case vehicle (2000 Toyota Tundra, 4-door extended cab pickup) was traveling on the one-way ramp in the number-two (right) lane. The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row frontal impact air bags. The 24-year-old male driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint. As the driver began to negotiate the final left curve and merge to the left, the vehicle ran off of the right roadside. The driver steered to the left and then the right, losing control as the vehicle began a clockwise yaw as it traveled off of the right roadside once again. Physical evidence shows that once the vehicle left the roadway and rode up onto the embankment the driver steered again left, and the vehicle's trajectory changed from a clockwise yaw to a counterclockwise yaw as it reached its zenith on the embankment and began to slide back downward. The vehicle had by now turned perpendicular to its forward trajectory and its right wheels dug into the dirt, tripping the vehicle to the right. The vehicle landed first on its top left roof rail. The vehicle came to rest on its wheels on the adjacent interstate facing southeast. The available frontal impact air bags did not deploy. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. The case subject was transported to a trauma facility due to 'severe' injury(s).