This case(s) involves both the driver and right front seat passenger responding to a right side leading rollover with frontal impact air bag deployment (not side equipped). This single vehicle crash occurred on the southbound side of an eight-lane interstate traveling through an urban area. The north/south trafficway had four lanes for travel in each direction divided by a concrete barrier. For southbound travel the roadway had a negative grade and a gradual left curve. The west side of the trafficway was comprised of a paved shoulder followed by a wide, flat, natural terrain covered with ice plant. The weather was cloudy but the concrete roadway, asphalt shoulder and ice plant terrain was dry during the early morning (daylight) weekend crash. At the time of the incident, the southbound lanes were closed to vehicular traffic due to a marathon soon to be utilizing the roadway. The case vehicle, a 2000 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, was traveling southbound in the number-one (right) lane. The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and driver and passenger frontal impact air bags. The 25-year-old female driver and the 31-year-old female right front seat passenger (sole occupants) were both using the belt restraints. The front right seat passenger was sleeping with her torso leaning to the right. The case vehicle was descending the negative grade on a straight stretch of roadway approaching the crash site. The roadway began a gradual left curve while the driver, possibly due to fatigue, allowed the vehicle to travel off of the right (west) side of the road. Evidence shows that the vehicle continued to track for a period of time before the driver steered the vehicle left abruptly, in an effort to regain the roadway. The vehicle began an ever-increasing counterclockwise yaw through the ice plant covered, level terrain until the vehicle was sideways, leading with its right. The vehicle's right front tire had deflated and the continued loading of that wheel into the soft dirt caused the vehicle to trip-over, over-turning an approximated sixteen quarter-turns in a left arcing motion, which brought it back to the paved shoulder of the interstate. The vehicle came to rest on its wheels on the west shoulder facing northeast. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. Both occupants were transported to a trauma facility with 'minor' injuries as rated by police.