This case involves a belted driver responding to a near side impact from another passenger vehicle with side impact air bag deployment. This crash occurred at the intersection of a five-lane north/south street, and a three-lane east/west street traveling through a commercial area. The north/south trafficway had two lanes for travel in each direction with a designated left turn lane. The southbound approach to the intersection was straight with negative grade. The east/west street had a single lane for travel in each direction with a designated left turn lane. The eastbound approach was straight with a negative grade. The intersection itself was level and was controlled by stop signs at the east and west junctures. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadways dry during the afternoon, weekend crash. The case vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Mercedes Benz E350 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound on its approach to the intersection. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts, driver and passenger frontal impact air bags, first row seat back mounted side impact air bags, second row door mounted side impact air bags and left and right side curtain air bags. The 55-year-old female driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint as evidenced by the belt being locked in the spooled out position. The opposing vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Toyota 4Runner SUV, was traveling southbound in the number-two lane (left) on its approach to the intersection. The driver of V1 brought the vehicle to a halt at the stop sign controlling this leg of the intersection. The driver then began to negotiate a left turn across the path of V2. The front of V2 struck the left plane of V1. V1's left first row seat back mounted air bag, left second row door mounted air bag and the left curtain bag deployed as a result of the impact. The impact caused V1 to rotate counterclockwise as it was deflected to the southeast, eventually running off of the southeast corner backward and striking the curb with its back plane and undercarriage. V1 came to rest on the southeast corner facing northwest. V2 was deflected and rotated counterclockwise a certain degree and came to rest within the intersection facing southeast. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The case subject (driver V1) was transported to a trauma facility due to injuries.