This case involves a driver responding to a frontal impact with a concrete block wall with frontal impact air bag deployment. This single vehicle crash occurred on a north/south, two-lane, undivided, rural trafficway. There was a single lane for travel in each direction separated by painted double yellow lines. On the northbound approach to the crash site the winding roadway makes a sharp left curve immediately followed by a significant dip, which is actually a short, low bridge over a drainage ditch. Following the dip, the roadway continues straight. There was a long, wide, parking lot adjacent to the roadway on the left (west) side. There was no divider between the roadway and the parking lot. At the far end of the parking lot (north) there was a 2 meter tall concrete block wall, an electrical utility box, yellow steel poles planted into the pavement and filled with concrete (to protect the utility box) and a large sign mounted on two, tall, poles. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the evening (dark-lit), weekday crash. The case vehicle, a 2003 Chevrolet Silverado 4-door pickup, was traveling northbound. The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and driver and passenger frontal impact air bags. The 47-year-old male driver (case subject/sole occupant) was determined to not be belted. The subject negotiated the vehicle through the left curve and the dip at a low speed (according to eyewitnesses) but when he reached the top of the far side of the dip, he accelerated the vehicle and veered/steered gradually to the left in a long straight trajectory. The vehicle approached the large sign and went directly under it, striking down two of the yellow posts with its front plane. The vehicle continued straight forward and struck down three more posts with its front plane as it swiped by the electrical utility box, making contact with its left side. The vehicle continued forward striking down one more post with its front plane before striking the corner of the concrete block wall, which did not yield. This last impact was the most severe. It was observed that the 'protective poles' did not have an influence on the vehicle's trajectory. The vehicle's driver's frontal impact air bag deployed. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. The subject (driver) was transported to a trauma facility due to severe injuries.