This case involved a belted female front right seat passenger responding to a near side (right) impact with another passenger vehicle. Three air bags in the subject's position deployed. This crash occurred on a two-lane north/south roadway in a rural, industrial area. There was one lane for travel in each direction separated by painted double yellows lines. There was a curvature to the roadway and a gentle grade. The roadway, at the scene of the crash, was bordered by paved shoulders, curbs and followed by steep embankments. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the morning (daylight), weekend crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2005 Kia Spectra) was traveling northbound negotiating a left curve with a slight downgrade. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts, driver and passenger frontal impact air bags, first row seat back mounted air bags and roof rail mounted side impact air bags. The driver and the 55-year-old, female front right seat passenger (case subject) were using the belt restraints. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2000 Hyundai Accent) was traveling southbound negotiating the right curve and up the gently sloping hill. The driver of V2 allowed the vehicle to travel across the double yellow lines, fully into the northbound lane and into path of V1. The driver of V1 recognized the imminent collision, applied the brakes and steered V1 to the left (west) in an effort to avoid the on-coming vehicle. This caused V1 to rotate counterclockwise as it crossed the centerline to the left and into the southbound lane as the driver of V2 braked and steered to the right (west), back into the southbound lane. The front of V2 struck the right side of V1. V1's frontal impact, air bags deployed. V1's front right seat back mounted and right side curtain type side impact air bags deployed. The impact caused V1 to rotate clockwise as it deflected off the west side of the roadway. The back undercarriage of the vehicle was involved in a significant impact with the embankment that broke both rear wheels from the axle and damaged the undercarriage. V1 came to rest on the west shoulder, adjacent to the embankment, facing south, opposite its original path. The collision caused V2 to rotate clockwise approximately 160-degrees and come to rest partially in the northbound lane facing north and slightly west, opposite its original path. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The driver and passenger of V1 were transported to a trauma facility due to 'severe' injury as rated by police.