This case involved a belted female front right seat passenger responding to an overturning fall from an elevated roadway. The non-horizontal principal direction of force and moderate impact caused serious injury(s). This two-vehicle crash occurred at an exit transition on a three-lane, westbound, one-way bridge (elevated roadway). The three-lane roadway designates that the number three lane (far left) exit off to the left, while the remaining two lanes continue westbound. All lanes have a sweeping left curvature and are generally level. The right (north) shoulder was paved and culminated in a concrete wall barrier. The weather was clear and the concrete lanes were dry during the mid-morning crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2001 Chevrolet Malibu, 4-door sedan) was traveling westbound in the number-two lane, negotiating the left curve. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row frontal impact air bags. Both the 36-year-old male driver and the 27-year-old front right seat passenger (case subject) were using the belt restraints. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2004 GMC Yukon, 4-door utility vehicle) was traveling westbound in the number-three lane, negotiating the left curve and was exiting the elevated roadway. Both vehicles traveled side by side (with V2 slightly behind) at nearly the same relative speed when V2 accelerated and steered right in an effort to change lanes to the right in order to remain on the elevated roadway. This maneuver resulted in the front right corner of V2 striking V1 on its left side. V2 continued to veer right, sustaining contact with V1, and forcing V1 to the right where it struck the concrete wall with its front right bumper. With V2 still in contact and still applying force, V1 was pushed over the bridge wall with its front right corner leading. The vehicle fell approximately 10m onto a roadway below, only turning two-quarter turns, and came to rest on its top. V2 meanwhile, continued scraping along the concrete wall until it came to rest on the elevated roadway against the wall facing west. The vehicle's first row frontal impact air bags deployed at some point in the sequence. Impact number-two would seem to offer the greatest longitudinal deceleration. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The driver and subject (front right seat passenger) were both transported to a trauma facility due to 'moderate to serious' injury(s), respectively.