This case involves an unbelted driver responding to a small tree impact with air bag deployment with subsequent minor impacts. This crash occurred on a six-lane, divided, trafficway traveling through a commercial area. The north/south roadway had three lanes for travel in each direction divided by a raised curb median. The roadway was bordered to the east by a curb, a sidewalk and a level grassy area, with small trees, adjacent to a construction site. The straight roadway was level. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway was dry during the morning (daylight), weekday crash. The case vehicle, a 1999 Ford Explorer 4-door SUV, was traveling northbound in the number-two lane. The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and driver and passenger (1st row, right) frontal impact air bags. The 38-year-old, female driver was not using the belt restraint. There were an additional four passengers in the vehicle. The 16-year-old, female front right seat occupant, 17-year-old male rear seat left occupant and the 12-year-old center rear seat female occupant were determined to not have been using the belt restraints. The 10-year-old, female, back right seat occupant may have been belted. As the case vehicle proceeded straight in the number-two lane, traffic began to back up in the number-three lane (left). A non-contact vehicle traveling northbound in the number-three lane (to the left of the case vehicle and slightly ahead of it) had to 'panic stop' in order to avoid stopped traffic. The driver of the non-contact vehicle managed to stop, and avoid the other vehicles, by partially encroaching into the number-two lane and into the path of the case vehicle. The driver of the case vehicle steered to the right and applied the brakes in an effort to avoid the encroaching vehicle. The case vehicle exited the roadway, to the right, tracking, in an arc. The vehicle mounted the curb and struck a small tree with its front-center, shearing the tree in half. The vehicle's frontal impact air bags deployed. The vehicle continued, in a slight counterclockwise yaw and struck a square (red) post with its right side in a swiping-type impact. The vehicle straightened out and struck another small tree with its front-left. The vehicle continued over small shrubbery and into the construction site where the front right struck the corner of a freshly poured building foundation. The vehicle came to rest at the foundation impact facing north east. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. The driver (subject) was transported to a trauma facility due to "C" injuries as rated by police. The 10-year-old 2nd row, right seat occupant was transported due to "B" injuries as rated by police.