This case involved a belted front right seat passenger responding to a frontal impact with a non-breakaway pole and frontal impact air bag deployment. This single vehicle crash occurred on an east/west, five-lane, divided street traveling through a commercial area. There were two lanes for travel in each direction divided by a raised curb median. There are left turn lanes situated as appropriate for both directions. The crash occurred on the westbound side of the trafficway, just east of an intersection. For westbound traffic there was a single lane for travel straight through the intersection, and designated left and right turn lanes. The westbound roadway was curved to the left and had commercial driveways intersecting the north curb. The north roadside profile consisted of a sidewalk followed by a small grass, upward, embankment. There was, in particular, a 40cm wooden utility pole sunk into the concrete sidewalk and being vertically supported by three steel cables staked to the ground. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway was dry during the early morning (dark-street lights), weekend crash. The case vehicle, a 2001 Lexus IS 300 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound. The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts, driver and passenger frontal impact air bags and first row seat back mounted side impact air bags. The 25-year-old, male driver was not using the belt restraint. The only other occupant, a 26-year-old, male front right seat passenger (case subject) was using the belt restraint as indicated by physical evidence. Traveling west in the number-one lane (right), the driver was negotiating the left curve as the vehicle approached the intersection. The driver allowed the vehicle to travel off of the roadway to the right (north) and onto the sidewalk where the front left of the vehicle struck the wooden utility pole. The vehicle's frontal impact air bags deployed. The pole penetrated the vehicle's front plane significantly and caused the vehicle to pivot/rotate counterclockwise around its front left wheel. During the rotation, the right side of the vehicle struck one of the steel support cables, bringing the vehicle to a stop on the grass embankment facing south. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. The driver was transported to a trauma facility due to "B" injuries as rated by police. The front right seat passenger (subject) was transported to a trauma facility due to "C" injuries as rated by police.