This case involves a belted 25-year-old male driver of a passenger car responding to a 'moderate' frontal impact (extreme left offset) with a metal utility pole. The subject sustained serious injury as a result. This single vehicle crash occurred at the three-way intersection of a one-way, four-lane interstate exit and a five-lane, divided, north/south trafficway. There were four lanes for interstate exit travel, with the two right lanes designated to turn right and the two left lanes to turn left. The interstate exit ramp was relatively straight and level with an, unusually quick, left curve just prior to the intersection. The intersection was controlled by tri-color traffic signals. On the right shoulder of the exit ramp just prior to the intersection there was a 1m tall "one way" sign mounted on a 12 x 12cm wooden post. On the NE corner of the intersection there was a 30cm metal utility pole (traffic signal). In the center of the intersecting street was a concrete barrier dividing the southbound lanes from the northbound lanes. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the early morning (dark-street lights), weekday crash. The Case Vehicle (2006 Dodge Charger, 4-door sedan) was traveling westbound in the number-one (right) lane. The vehicle was originally equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row frontal impact air bags. The 25-year-old male driver (case subject/sole occupant) was determined to have been using the belt restraint. There were no additional passengers according to first on scene. It was also determined the driver's hub mounted frontal impact air bag was not present prior to the crash, apparently having been deployed in a previous crash where the front right seat was occupied leaving loading evidence on the retractor locked belt. The front right air bag was not deployed and it is not known if it was available or if the panel had been replaced without one. The subject had missed his exit and was not familiar with the environment. The subject exited the interstate and was traveling in the number-two lane. The subject passed around a slower moving vehicle and entered the number-one lane anticipating a right turn. The subject was not able to negotiate the right turn and ran off of the right roadside just prior to the intersection. The subject was steering left in an effort to regain the roadway when the front plane struck down the "one way" sign. The vehicle then immediately struck a metal utility pole with its front plane, extreme left-offset (corner). The impact separated the left side fender, front left wheel, doors and B-pillar from the vehicle. The pole was damaged but remained upright. The vehicle began a counterclockwise rotation as it came off of the pole and slid across the intersecting street's northbound lanes striking the concrete divider first with its right front and then its right rear as it bounced off of it to its final rest facing NE in the northbound lane. The subject (driver) was pulled out of the vehicle by passersby, who believed the vehicle was on fire, though no sign of a fire was found. The passersby tugged the subject, whose legs were caught up in the dash intrusion, until he came out of the vehicle. Those first on scene declare no other occupants of this vehicle. The case vehicle was towed due to an extreme amount of damage. The subject (driver) was transported to a trauma facility due to serious injury(s).