This case involved a belted driver responding to a near-side impact with another passenger vehicle and seat back mounted head and torso side impact air bag deployment. This crash occurred at the three-way intersection of a four-lane, divided, east/west street, and a two-way, unlined, condominium access street. The east/west trafficway had two lanes for travel in each direction divided by a narrow raised curb median. There was a significant downgrade for westbound traffic and a sweeping left curve. The condominium complex drive adjoined from the north side of the larger street in the midst of the curve. The drive was unlined though intended as a two-way trafficway with extra room for on-street parking. The drive came to a hillcrest at the intersection. The intersection was controlled by a stop sign at the southbound driveway mouth. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadways dry during the mid-morning weekday crash. The case vehicle (V1), a 2003 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan, was traveling southbound on the drive, approached the intersection and came to a stop at the limit line. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts, driver and passenger frontal impact air bags and seat back mounted side impact air bags. The 73-year-old male driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint as evidenced by the belt being trapped and spooled out by B-pillar damage. The opposing vehicle (V2), a 2004 1993 Chevrolet C2500 pickup, was traveling westbound down the hill and negotiating the left curve in the number-one (right) lane. The driver of V1 pulled into the intersection intending to turn left when it was struck on its left side by the front of V2. V1's driver seat back mounted head and torso air bag deployed. The driver of V2 had apparently observed V1 and began to slow and steer left in an effort to avoid an impending collision. The impact deflected V1 to the right (southwest), with a slight counterclockwise yaw, to its final rest facing east in the eastbound number-two lane. V2 was deflected slightly counterclockwise and came to rest adjacent to V1 in the intersection facing southwest. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The driver of V1 (subject) was transported to a trauma facility with "A" injuries as rated by police. The driver of V2 was transported with "C" injuries as rated by police.