This case involves a belted driver responding to a climb-over type overturn sequence. This single vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane, east/west trafficway traveling through a rural agricultural area. There was a single lane for travel in each direction separated by painted double yellow lines. The roadway was bordered by paved and gravel shoulders, and approximately, 2 meters high sand embankments along both sides of the road. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the early morning (dark-not lit) crash. The case vehicle, a 2001 Ford F150 4-door pickup, was traveling eastbound. The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row driver and passenger frontal impact air bags. The 40-year-old male driver (case subject/sole occupant) was determined to have been using the belt restraint. The subject was proceeding eastbound when he became fatigued and allowed the vehicle to drift off of the right roadside. The alerted driver steered the vehicle left, back onto the roadway. The vehicle returned to the roadway and entered the westbound lane. The driver steered the vehicle to the right to regain his lane but the vehicle's back end began to slide out to the left causing the vehicle to enter into a clockwise yaw as it traveled, diagonally (southeast) off of the right (south) roadside across the shoulders and up onto the sand embankment. The front of the vehicle was pointing toward the embankment and the vehicle rode up onto it until its front wheels became airborne. The vehicle lifted to the left and landed on its left sill/undercarriage, just beneath the drivers (subject) door. The vehicle continued over-turning to the left, across the square topped embankment, an estimated four quarter-turns sustaining it's greatest greenhouse crush to the right roof rail. The vehicle came to rest on the other side of the embankment, on its wheels facing southeast. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. The subject was transported to a trauma facility due to 'severe' injury(s).