This case involved a belted driver responding to a non-horizontal frontal impact with frontal air bag deployment. This single vehicle crash occurred on the eastbound side of a four-lane, divided, controlled trafficway traveling through a suburban area. There were two lanes for travel in each direction divided by a wide, natural median. The eastbound lanes were straight with a slight grade increase. There were paved shoulders on either side of the roadway and the left shoulder (median) then transitioned to the natural median. At the location of the incident the eastbound lanes traveled over a north/south surface street. The overpass was approximately 8.8m above the street below. The weather was clear and the concrete roadway dry, during the nighttime (dark-not lit) crash. The case vehicle (2006 Ford Mustang, convertible 2-door coupe) was traveling eastbound in the number-two (left) lane. The vehicle was equipped with (pretensioner) lap and shoulder belts and driver and passenger frontal impact air bags. The 41-year-old male driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint as evidenced by the pretensioner having actuated locking the belt spooled out. The driver allowed the vehicle to travel off of the roadway onto the left (north) shoulder, then median (tracking). The vehicle continued forward in the median, where the roadway was elevated to overpass a surface street. The vehicle went over the embankment, traveling approximately 20 meters from its launch to landing while falling 8.8 meters. The vehicle landed on its wheels, undercarriage and lower edge of its front bumper. The vehicle's driver position air bag deployed, the front right position bag did not. The vehicle bounced up out of that impact and continued east over the east curb of the north/south surface street and collided with an upward embankment. The vehicle came to rest on the upward embankment facing east. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. The subject was transported to a trauma facility due to "A" injuries as rated by police.