This case involved a belted driver of a passenger car responding to a near side impact with another passenger car. This crash occurred at the intersection of a two-lane north/south street and a five-lane east/west street traveling through a residential area. The north/south, street adjoined from the south, had a single lane for travel in each direction, was straight and had a negative grade on its approach. Opposite from the south leg was a school driveway. The east/west, street had two lanes for travel in each direction with a designated left turn lane separated by a painted median. The street was straight and level. The intersection was controlled by tri-color traffic signals on all corners. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadways dry during the night-time (dark-street lights), weekday crash. The case vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Ford Mustang 2-door sedan, was traveling north on its approach to the intersection. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row frontal impact air bags. The 28-year-old male driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint based on physical evidence. The opposing vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Saab 9-3 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound in the number-one lane (right) on its approach to the intersection with the intention of traveling straight through. V1 approached the intersection, stopped, and at the appropriate time began to negotiate a left turn. V2 entered the intersection simultaneously and the front of V2 struck the left side of V1 forward of the B-pillar area. The impact rotated V1 approximately 90-degrees clockwise as V2 was deflected slightly to its left and the vehicle struck a second time with the left side of V1 striking the right side of V2 in a 'side-slap'. V1 continued to rotate clockwise to its final rest in the eastbound lanes facing southeast approximately 10m from the impact. V2 rotated counterclockwise to its final rest in the median on the east side of the intersection facing northwest. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The driver of V1 (subject) was transported to a trauma facility due to 'severe' injury(s). The driver of V2 was also transported with a broken right arm.