This case involved a belted driver responding to a rollover crash. This single vehicle crash occurred on the eastbound side of a four-lane, divided, east/west interstate traveling through a rural area. There were two lanes for travel in each direction divided by a wide, natural median. The north (left) roadside consisted of a narrow paved shoulder followed by the natural earth median. The south (right) roadside consisted of a wide, paved shoulder and a curb, followed by a steep (approx. 40%) downward, natural embankment. At the bottom of the embankment there was a barbed wire fence-line and a dirt access road. The roadway was level and straight. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the afternoon, weekend crash. The case vehicle, a 2003 GMC 2500 HD Dura Max Diesel 4-door pickup, was traveling eastbound in the number-one lane (right). The vehicle was equipped with seat back integrated-lap and shoulder belts and driver and passenger frontal impact air bags. The 40-year-old male driver (case subject/sole occupant) was determined to have been using the belt restraint as evidenced by the belt being trapped spooled out with friction loading evidence on the belt and retractor guide on the seat back. The subject was fatigued as he negotiated a long, straight stretch of freeway. The subject allowed the vehicle to gradually leave the right side of the roadway with the right side wheels traveling over the curb. This obstruction led to a slight clockwise rotation as the vehicle traveled off of the embankment. The vehicle landed first with its left front wheel/axle, with a significant longitudinal force, and continued to overturn onto its driver door. This initial, non-horizontal impact was severe enough to cause left frame rail damage and deploy the frontal impact air bags. The vehicle continued to overturn to the left an estimated total of nine quarter-turns coming to rest at the bottom of the embankment on its left side facing west (opposite its original direction). The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. The subject (driver) was transported to a trauma facility due to serious injury(s) .