This case involves a belted driver responding to a frontal impact with a large tree and frontal impact air bag deployment. This crash occurred on a five-lane, divided, trafficway traveling through a commercial/recreational area. The east/west trafficway had two lanes for travel eastbound. Westbound traffic had two lanes for travel west and dedicated right and left turn lanes. The roadways were divided by a painted median. For eastbound travel there was a sweeping right curve and a slight positive grade. The north roadside consisted of a curb followed by flat sandy terrain. There was a stand of mature palm trees approximately 15m from the road. The weather was clear and dry during the afternoon, weekday crash. The case vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Lexus SC30 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound in the number-two (left) lane. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and driver and passenger frontal impact air bags. The 34-year-old female driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint based on physical evidence. There was a second vehicle, vehicle 2 (V2), a 2004 Nissan Quest minivan was peripherally involved. Both V1 and V2 had been stopped at a traffic light in the number-two lane with V2 ahead of V1. The light changed and the vehicles began to proceed forward. Due to a pre-existing medical condition, the driver of V1 (subject) allowed the front of V1 to strike the back of V2 in a minor impact while the vehicles were moving forward. V2 continued to move forward and began to negotiate the right curve. V1 continued forward, and without driver input, went straight. This trajectory resulted in V1 traveling, at an angle, across the painted median and westbound lanes until leaving the north roadside. V1 sustained minor wheel damage as it mounted the curb and traveled (approximately 33m) across the flat, sandy, terrain until striking a large (50cm diameter) palm tree with its front plane, left of center. The vehicle's frontal impact air bags deployed. The vehicle rotated slightly counterclockwise and came to rest against the tree facing northeast. V1 was towed due to disabling damage while V2 was not. The driver of V1 (subject) was transported to a trauma facility due to "B" (and "C") injuries as rated by police.