This case involved a belted driver responding to a near side impact with another passenger vehicle. This crash occurred at the intersection of a business driveway and a five-lane, undivided, urban street. The east/west trafficway had two lanes for travel in each direction separated by a continuous left turn lane. The driveway adjoined from the north and was wide enough to accommodate two-way traffic. The street was level in its direction of travel, but presented a crown to intersecting traffic. The driveway had a downward grade to the street. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the afternoon, weekday crash. The case vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Nissan Maxima 4-door sedan, was traveling southbound, leaving the driveway and intending to turn left (east) onto the street. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and driver and passenger frontal impact air bags. The 63-year-old female driver (case subject) was using the belt restraint as supported by physical evidence. The 66-year-old female front right seat passenger was also using the belt restraint. The 59-year-old female second seat left passenger was also determined to have been using the belt restraint. The opposing vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan, was traveling westbound in the number-two (left) lane. The driver was the sole occupant of V2 and was belted. As V1 approached the driveway intersection with the heavy traffic on the street, a non-involved vehicle traveling westbound in the number-one lane (right) slowed, stopped and motioned for the driver of V1 (subject) to make her left turn across the lane. V2 was traveling adjacent, and to the rear of, the non-contact vehicle in the number-two lane. The driver (subject) of V1 began to negotiate the left turn not seeing V2. As V1 progressed into the westbound lane two it was struck on its left plane by the front of V2. The left side impact caused V1's frontal impact air bags to deploy. V1 rotated slightly counterclockwise as it was deflected to the right (southwest) and came to rest in the center-turn lane facing southeast. V2's frontal impact air bags deployed as V2 rotated slightly counterclockwise and came to rest facing southwest partially in the number-two lane and center turn lane. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The case subject (driver of V1) initially declined medical attention, as did the front right seat occupant. The second row left seat passenger was transported to a medical facility due to 'visible' injury according to the police crash report. The case subject was later taken by family to a trauma facility where she was admitted for 'severe' injury(s). The driver of V2 was also transported from the scene with visible injury.