Vehicle one (V1 - case vehicle), a 2003 Mercury Sable, 4-door sedan was traveling north in the northbound lane of a two-lane, two-way rural road. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Chevrolet Camaro, 2-door coupe was traveling south in the southbound lane of the same road. It was daylight, raining, and the bituminous road surface was wet. V1 was beginning to travel on an uphill grade, while V2 was traversing a downhill grade. The driver of V2 reportedly had been driving at a constant slower speed and felt he was slowing traffic flow so he accelerated rapidly, lost control of his vehicle, ran off the right side of the road, over-steered to the left, returned to the road, but crossed the center line and into the path of V1. The driver of V1 attempted to avoid V2 by steering right, but the front of V1 struck the right side of V2. V2 rotated in a counter clockwise manner and the left side of V1 contacted the right-rear of V2. V1 came to rest off the right shoulder facing north-northeast. V2 came to rest off the right shoulder facing west. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling vehicle damage. The 39-year-old male driver of V1 (non-case occupant) was not using the available three-point seat belt but the steering-wheel air bag deployed. He was transported via ground ambulance to a regional level-one trauma center for treatment (ISS-5). The 27-year-old female right-front passenger (case occupant) was using the available three-point seat belt and the dash-mounted air bag deployed. She was transported via ground ambulance to a regional level-one trauma center for treatment (see Injury List). The 2-year-old female right-rear passenger (non-case occupant) was appropriately seated in a convertible child seat, the seat was used in the forward-facing mode, the child was restrained via the 5-point harness, and the seat was attached to the vehicle via the LATCH system (lower anchors/latch belt and tether used). She was also transported via ground ambulance to a regional level-one trauma center for treatment (ISS-1).