Vehicle one (V1 - case vehicle), a 1999 Dodge Durango, 4-door utility vehicle was traveling north in the left northbound lane of a four-lane, two-way roadway (two lanes northbound, centerline, two lanes southbound). Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Mercury Villager was traveling south in the left southbound lane while vehicle three (V3), a 2004 Jeep Liberty, 4-door utility vehicle was also travling south in the left southbound lane but behind V2. It was daylight, the weather was clear, and the bituminous road surface was dry. The driver of V2 was reportedly decelerating while looking for an address and the driver of V3 did not recognize the slower speed of V2. The front of V3 struck the rear of V2 causing V2 to lose control. V2 accelerated forward and to the left, as a result of the rear impact, crossed the centerline and into the path of V1. The driver of V1 was able to brake but could not avoid striking V2. The front of V2 struck the front of V1 in an offset-frontal made (43% vehicle overlap for V1). The impact caused both vehicles to rotate in a counterclockwise manner and V1 reportedly came to rest in the right southbound lane facing north-northeast while V2 came to rest across both northbound lanes facing west-southwest. The final rest of V3 is not known. All three vehicles were reportedly towed due to disabling vehicle damage. The 25-year-old female driver of V3 (and lone occupant) sustained police-reported "B" injuries but refused treatment at the scene. The 39-year-old female driver (and lone occupant) of V2 sustained police-reported "A" injuries and was transported via helicopter to a regional level-one trauma center with unknown specific injuries. The 69-year-old male driver of V1 (case occupant) was using the available three-point seat belt and the steering-wheel air bag deployed. He sustained police-reported "A" injuries and was transported via ground ambulance to a local hospital and later transferred to a regional level-one trauma center. The 68-year-old female right-front passenger of V1 was also using the available three-point seat belt and the dash-mounted air bag deployed. She sustained police-reported "O" injuries, was transported via ground ambulance to a local hospital where she was treated and released with minor injuries (seat belt contusions/abrasions, ISS-1).