Vehicle one (V1 - case vehicle), a 2006 Chevrolet Malibu, 4-door sedan was traveling west in the westbound lane of a two-lane, two-way rural road. Vehicle two (V2 - case vehicle), a 1993 Jeep Wrangler, utility vehicle was traveling east in the eastbound lane of the same road. It was daylight, raining, and the bituminous road surface was wet. The driver of V2 drove through a standing puddle of water in the eastbound lane which caused the vehicle to hydroplane and the driver to lose control. V2 began to rotate in a counterclockwise direction, cross the centerline and enter the westbound lane with the back of V2 leading. The driver of V1 was able to apply the brakes but could not avoid striking V2. The front of V1 struck the rear of V2. V2 was pushed forward or to the west and came to rest in the middle of the road facing south-southwest. V1 was redirected in a northwest direction, departed the road and came to rest facing north-northwest. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling vehicle damage. The 69-year-old male driver of V1 (case occupant) was using the available three-point seat belt and the steering-wheel air bag deployed. He was transported via ground ambulance to a regional level-one trauma center with moderate injuries. The 70-year-old female right-front passenger of V1 (case occupant) was using the available three-point seat belt and the dash-mounted air bag deployed. She was transported via ground ambulance to a regional level-one trauma center with serious injuries. The 24-year-old female driver of V2 (case occupant) was pregnant (29 weeks gestation) and using the available three-point seat belt but this vehicle is not equipped with air bags. She was transported via ground ambulance to a regional level-one trauma center with minor injuries. The 4-year-old male right-rear passenger of V2 (case occupant) was seated in a combination child seat, facing forward, utilizing the vehicle three-point belt to secure the car seat to the vehicle, and the child seat harness to restrain the child. He was transported via ground ambulance with moderate injuries.