This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 24 year old male driver of a 2006 Buick Lucerne CXL 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal air bag deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a large diameter tree (event 4). The case vehicle was also equipped with (seat back mounted) side impact air bags for the front outboard seating positions, and side curtain air bags for the outboard seating positions (non-deployed). Vehicle 1 was westbound on a two-lane state highway and proceeding straight. It was dusk; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. Vehicle 1 entered a sag area in the road and subsequently departed the left (south) pavement edge in a forward tracking mode. Vehicle 1 traversed the grass shoulder and approached a drop-off into a wooded area. The embankment pitched the vehicle's front end downward and to the left. The frontal area struck a bush, resulting in minor damage (event 1). The undercarriage struck the embankment which resulted in minor damage (event 2). The left front side surface swiped a small diameter tree, resulting in minor damage (event 3). The front right area impacted a large diameter tree, which resulted in moderate damage (event 4). At this point, Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise as the left rear side surface struck an adjacent large diameter tree, resulting in non-horizontal moderate damage (event 5). Vehicle 1 came to rest against the final point of impact (off the south pavement edge of the road) facing northwest. The unrestrained 24 year old male driver of the 2006 Buick Lucerne was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat track adjusted to a full rearward position. The police reported that the driver was restrained; however, interior evidence indicated that the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt was not used. The lack of restraint use was evidenced by the extent of contacts within the driver space, relative to the absence of loading marks on the belt system. Furthermore, the front belts were found restricted in the stowed position by pretensioner deployment. This was later confirmed by the vehicle's Event Data Recorder (EDR), which recorded the driver belt switch as "unbuckled". Impacts 1-3 were minor in nature and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the occupant. At impact 4, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the deployed frontal air bag and knee bolster. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. Scuff and scratch marks were identified on the left knee bolster. In addition, skin tissue was embedded into the contact site. Blood pooling was noted on the floorpan adjacent to the knee bolster contacts. A small localized fracture was documented on the left mid-instrument panel, and attributed to the left upper extremity. At this point, the driver loaded through the deployed frontal air bag and deformed the upper portion of the steering wheel rim. Column compression was also found at the shear capsules. Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.