The 32-year-old male was seated in the driver's position in a bucket seat with the seat track adjusted to the middle position at the time collision. The case occupant was wearing the manual three-point lap belt. The case occupant weighed approximately 83 kg (183 lbs) and his height was approximately 173 cm (68 inches). At the impact, the case occupant was forced laterally coming into contact with the door panel, B pillar and armrest. It could be determined based on the roadway's physical evidence and vehicle's path of travel that the driver did not conduct an avoidance maneuver (i.e., steering/braking) prior to the collision. He was pronounced dead at the collision location. All of the injury information is derived from the medical examiner's report of an invasive autopsy. V2 (1996 Dodge Caravan) was traveling at high speed when the front of V2 impacted V1 (1993 Toyota Corolla) in the driver's door. V2's front end penetrated the V1 driver's seating area, with V2's hood edge and/or grille probably contacting the subject's head through the driver's door window opening. The subject sustained multiple fractures of his skull (base and vault), multiple lacerations of the cerebellum and cerebrum, and other brain injuries. He also sustained an atlanto-occipital dislocation, dislocation of vertebra T1 and a fracture of the left clavicle. The driver's door intruded from left to right more than half way across the interior width of V1, forcing the subject's torso into the front right seat area while his legs remained in the driver's footwell. The subject sustained multple rib fractures plus lacerations of the lungs, pericardium, the aorta and the superior vena cava. His abdomen was compressed by the intruding door as he was restrained by the lap portion of his safety belt; he sustained a rupture of the diaphragm plus lacerations of the liver and pancreas. His lower legs contacted the intruding side structures in the driver's footwell and he sustained an unspecified fracture of the left lower leg/ankle.