Vehicle #1 (case vehicle) was a 2003 Jaguar, four-door sedan. Vehicle #2 was a 1998 Jeep Cherokee, utility vehicle. There were five occupants in the case vehicle with the second row, left occupant (21 seat position) being our case study participant: Driver - was an 36-year-old male/ Frontal air bag (steering wheel), Seat back mounted Air bag, Side curtain air bag with a manual lap and shoulder belt (with pretensioner) were available/ Frontal air bag (steering wheel) did not deploy, Seat back mounted air bag did deploy, Side curtain did deploy and it appears the manual lap and shoulder belt was in use. Front right seat passenger- was a 24-year-old female/ Frontal air bag (instrument panel), Seat back mounted air bag, Side curtain air bag with a manual lap and shoulder belt (with pretensioner) was available/Front air bag (instrument panel) did not deploy, Seat back mounted air bag did not deploy, Side air bag curtain did not deploy and it appears the lap and shoulder belt was in use. This vehicle is also equipped with an occupant sensing system. 2nd row, left seating position (case occupant)- was a 35-year-old male/ Side curtain air bag and a manual lap and shoulder belt was available/ Side curtain air bag deployed (same air bag as seating position "11", front left) It appears the manual lap and shoulder belt was in use. 2nd row, center seating position- was a 24-year-old female/A manual lap and shoulder belt was available/ It appears the manual lap and shoulder belt was not in use. 2nd row, right seating position- was a 35-year-old male/ Side curtain air bag and a manual lap and shoulder belt was available/ Side curtain air bag did not deployed (same air bag as seating position "13", front right) It appears the manual lap and shoulder belt was in use. This crash occurred in the morning (dark but lighted) on a dry, positive grade roadway with no adverse weather conditions. The crash occurred at a four-legged intersection with the south roadway (one way, two lanes) controlled by a traffic signal. At the time of the crash the east/west traffic signal was flashing amber and the south traffic signal was flashing red. This roadway was intersected by a four-lane roadway (two westbound lanes and two eastbound lanes in each direction, slightly curved). The involved roadways were of bituminous construction with a speed limit of 64kmph (40mph east and west) and 40kmph (25mph south). Vehicle #1 (case vehicle) was initially traveling eastbound in the left lane and V2 was traveling southbound in the right lane. As V1 entered the intersection, it was impacted on the left side by the front of V2. After initial impact, V1 traveled to its final resting position east of the intersection in the right lane, facing east. V2 rotated counter clockwise before traveling to its final resting position in the southeast quadrant of the intersection. The 2nd row left seating position (case occupant) was extricated from the vehicle after 15 minutes (door removed). He was then transported from the scene to a local trauma center where he was admitted for 5 days for injuries received in the crash.