Vehicle one (V1 - case vehicle), a 2002 Dodge Sprinter passenger van was traveling north in the right northbound lane of a six-lane, divided, limited access freeway (threelanes northbound, protected median, three lanes southbound). Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 International tractor pulling one trailer was also northbound in the right lane and ahead of V1. It was daylight, raining, and the bituminous road surface was wet. Both V1 and V2 were entering an interchange area (interchange with another major freeway) and V1 exited to the right onto a parallel slip ramp while V2 proceeded north to pass through the interchange. The driver of V1 reportedly attempted to leave the slip ramp and re-enter the through lanes by traveling across a grassy gore area. The driver of V1 lost control, began a counterclockwise yaw, tripped over it's right side wheels and began to roll about its longitudinal axis. As V1 rolled, it re-entered the right northbound lane and the front of V2 struck the front of V1. It is presumed that V1 was upright and on its wheels during this impact. This impact caused the power and drivetrains (engine and transmission) of V1 to seperate from V1 as it rotated clockwise and came to rest on the right shoulder, facing north-northwest. V2 came to a controlled stop on the left shoulder of the northbound lanes. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to disabling vehicle damage. The 53-year-old female driver of V1 was using the available three-point seat belt and the steering-wheel air bag deployed. She was transported to a local hospital and was hospitalized with serious (AIS-3) injuries. The 20-year-old male right-front passenger was also using the available three-point seat belt and the dash-mounted air bag deployed. He was transported to a regional level-one trauma center with unknown injuries. The 17-year-old male second row-left passenger and the 17-year-old male second row-right passenger were not using the available three-point seat belts and both were completely ejected from the vehicle. Both were transported to a regional level-one trauma center with unknown injuries. The 21-year-old male third row-left passenger was not using the available three-point seat belt and was also completely ejected from the vehicle. He was transported to a regional level-one trauma center with unknown injuries. The 20-year-old male third row-right passenger (case occupant) was seated in a power wheelchair that was secured to the vehicle via a 4-point tiedown system. He was additionally restrained by an after-market three-point seat belt and was also using a wheelchair postural belt. He was transported to a regional level-one trauma center with moderate (AIS-2) injuries.