Vehicle one (V1 - case vehicle), a 2002 Ford F250. 4-door pickup was traveling south in the southbound lane of a two-lane, two-way rural road. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Ford F150, 4-door pickup was traveling north in the northbound lane of the same road. It was dark, snowing with blowing snow, and the bituminous road surface was snow-covered. As the two vehicles approached each other, the driver of V2 lost control on the snow-covered surface and crossed the centerline. The driver of V1 could not avoid V2 and the front of V1 struck the front of V2 in an offset configuration. V1 reportedly rotated counter clockwise approximately 40 degrees and came to rest off the west edge of the road and V2 reportedly rotated counter clockwise approximately 90 degrees and came to rest in the roadway facing west. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to disabling damage. The 38-year-old male driver of V1 was using the available three-point seat belt and the steering-wheel air bag deployed. He was transported to a local hospital via ground ambulance and was treated and released with minor (AIS-1, ISS-1) injuries. The 39-year-old female right-front passenger of V1 (case occupant) was using the available three-point seat belt and the dash-mounted air bag deployed. She was transported to a local hospital and then transferred to a regional level-one trauma center with moderate injuries (AIS-2). The 30-month old male left-rear passenger of V1 was in an unknown model of convertible child seat, facing forward and was using the 3-point seat belt to anchor the child seat and the harness to restrain the child. He was transported to a local hospital via ground ambulance and was treated and released with minor (AIS-1, ISS-1) injuries. The 2-month old female right-rear passenger of V1 (case occupant) was seated in a rear-facing infant seat, the child seat was anchored to the vehicle via the 3-point seat belt and the child was restrained by the child seat harness. She was transported via ground ambulance to a local hospital and was transferred to a regional level-one trauma with critical (AIS-5) injuries.