The focus of this case is on a 81-year old, female driver (case occupant), of a 2004 Buick Le Sabre, involved in an angular left side impact with a 2005 Mercury Mountaineer. This two-vehicle collision occurred during the daylight hours (light), of a summer weekday, in the area of an intersection between a three lane undivided roadway and a five lane divided trafficway. The three lane bituminous roadway runs east and west and the five lane divided trafficway runs north and south. The east/west roadway and the north/south roadway are level in the area of, and near the intersection. The north/south five lane trafficway narrows to four lanes and reduces grade by 20 feet approximately 300 feet north of the intersection.. The weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The speed limit for the north/south trafficway is 64 km/h (40 mph), and the speed limit for the east/west roadway is 40 km/h (25 mph). The 81-year old female driver (case occupant) was operating Vehicle 1 (V1), the 2004 Buick Le Sabre 4-door sedan vehicle, from a stop in the center eastbound left hand turn lane. She proceeded into the intersection from the west. She was restrained by a 3-point lap/shoulder belt and had an advanced frontal impact air bag and a thorax seat back mounted side air bag available. Vehicle 2 (V2), a 2005 Mercury Mountaineer sport utility vehicle, was in the right hand southbound travel lane of the 4 lane north/south trafficway (2 lanes south and 2 lanes north preceding the intersection and 2 lanes south and 3 lanes north to the south of the intersection. The front of V2 contacted the left side of V1 as V1 crossed the intersection attempting to make a left hand turn. There were no signs of skidding from either vehicle leading into the impact area. V2's frontal plane struck V1's left side plane in an angular side impact configuration. V1 pivoted counterclockwise, about 170 degrees, and came to rest in the center of the intersection, facing in a westerly direction. V2 rotated counterclockwise about 100 degrees after the impact and came to rest just west of the impact area in the center of the intersection, facing an easterly direction. As a result of the impact, V1's side thorax air bag deployed. The driver of V1 (case occupant) was removed from the vehicle and transported, by land EMS unit to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor and serious injuries. The driver of V2 was not transported by EMS. The extent of her injuries and/or treatments is unknown. Both vehicles were towed due to damage sustained in the crash.