The focus of this case is on a 20-year old, female driver (case occupant), of a 2005 Toyota Scion TC, involved in an offset frontal impact with a 2006 Ford F-150 Pickup. This two-vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours (daylight), of a summer weekday, on a straight level section of a two-lane roadway. This bituminous roadway runs north and south. The weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The speed limit for the north/south roadway is 80 km/h (50 mph). The 20-year old female driver (case occupant) was operating Vehicle 1, the 2005 Toyota Scion TC, in the northbound travel lane. She was restrained by a 3-point lap/shoulder belt and had the benefit of an advanced frontal impact air bag and a frontal knee air bag. Vehicle 2, a 2006 Ford F-150 Pickup, was in the southbound travel lane. For unknown reasons, Vehicle 2 entered the northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 did not become aware of Vehicle 2's encroachment, as there was no skidding into the impact area by either vehicle. Vehicle 2's frontal plane struck Vehicle 1's frontal plane in an offset frontal impact configuration (front left to front left). The front of Vehicle 2 contacted the left front corner of Vehicle 1, continuing along the left side of Vehicle 1 where it snagged and tore the driver door off of Vehicle 1. Vehicle 1 was pushed backwards and pivoted counterclockwise, about 90 degrees and came to rest just off of the east edge roadway line (fog line), facing a westerly direction. Vehicle 2 rotated counterclockwise about 180 degrees and came to rest south of the impact area in the northbound travel lane, facing north. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's driver frontal impact air bag and knee air bag deployed and the passenger frontal impact air bag deployed. Vehicle 3, a 1993 Pontiac Bonneville, traveling northbound, skidded off of the right side of the northbound lane in an attempt to miss Vehicle 2 as Vehicle 2 spun in front of Vehicle 3. The frontal plane of Vehicle 3 contacted the rear plane of Vehicle 2. Vehicle 3 continued off of the roadway and came to rest facing northbound just before contacting Vehicle 1. The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was removed from the vehicle and transported, by air rescue, to a trauma center and hospitalized with minor and serious injuries. All other occupants, the right front passenger from Vehicle 1, driver and right front passengers of Vehicle 2, and the driver of Vehicle 3 were transported to a local medical facility. The extent of their injuries and/or treatments is unknown. All three vehicles were towed due to damage sustained in the crash.