The crash occurred on a two-way four-lane road (2 lanes each direction) that runs east/west and is divided by a raised grass median. The grass median is broken intermittently with crossovers for turning traffic. The road was straight and level, running through a business district with a bank driveway intersecting from the south. The posted speed limit is 48kph/30mph. Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight and dry on a weekday in early afternoon.

Vehicle 1 was a northbound 2001 Ford Taurus waiting to turn left (west) from the bank lot when a non-contact vehicle stopped in the right eastbound lane and waved Vehicle 1 out. Vehicle 1 proceeded to pull out when Vehicle 2, a 1998 Ford Escort that was traveling east in the left lane, struck Vehicle 1 on the left side with its front. Both vehicles came to rest within a meter of impact facing their original directions. Vehicle 1 was towed due to damage and Vehicle 2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle 1 was driven by a 44-year old belted female that was uninjured in the crash. Police issued her citations for failure to yield, no proof of insurance, and no valid license.

The critical pre-crash event for Vehicle 1 was this vehicle traveling: turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was a Decision error: False Assumption of other's action. The non-contact vehicle was coded as a sight restriction because the driver of Vehicle 1 said she could not see around it. False assumption was coded because the driver (V1) assumed the way was clear based on the non-contact driver waving her across. She also crossed with an obstructed view. A recognition factor was included; the impending problem was masked by the traffic flow pattern. The driver was wearing glasses to correct a nearsighted condition.

Vehicle 2 was driven by a 56-year old female who was belted, as were both of her passengers. No one in Vehicle 2 was injured in the crash. Police issued her a citation for no proof of insurance.

The critical pre-crash event for Vehicle 2 was other vehicle encroachment: from driveway, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle. The only contributing factor coded to this vehicle was the non-contact vehicle sight restriction as the driver of Vehicle 2 said she didn't see Vehicle1 until it was past the non-contact vehicle. A recognition factor was included; the impending problem was masked by the traffic flow pattern.