The crash occurred at a T-intersection on an eastbound/westbound roadway. V1 was traveling westbound on a five-lane (two westbound and two eastbound with a center turn lane) undivided roadway. V2 was traveling on a two-lane (one northbound and one southbound) undivided roadway. Both asphalt roadways were dry, level, and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit for both roadways was 40 kmph (25mph). The crash occurred in the early afternoon hours on a weekday. Traffic was heavy on the east/westbound roadway.

V1, a 4-door 1999 Nissan Altima, was traveling westbound in lane #1 when it struck with its front end the left side of V2, a 4-door 1987 Buick Lesabre. V2 had been southbound on the intersecting roadway, and was attempting a left turn at the T-intersection. V2 had a stop sign posted at the corner of the T-intersection and had stopped before initiating its turn. According to the interview, the driver of V2 was attempting to merge into the oncoming traffic and didn't see the vehicle coming from her left. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a 39-year old male, stated that there was a curve several feet before the intersection and it took away his ability to see V2 crossing in front of him. The driver of V1 was familiar with the roadway - he drove on it daily. The driver of V1 was not injured. V1 was not towed.

The driver of V2, a 91-year old female, stated that she couldn't understand why the driver of V1 couldn't see her merging into traffic. She stated that after the curve there were several feet of straight roadway before the T-intersection. V2's driver was familiar with the roadway - she drove it weekly. The driver of V2 was transported to a hospital with possible rib fractures. V2 was towed due to damages from the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for the driver of V1 was when another vehicle encroached into his lane from a crossing street, turning into the opposite direction. The Critical Reason was not coded to the driver of V1, although one associated factor was coded to him. It was believed that the driver of V1 was traveling too fast for the roadway. When questioned, he reported that he was traveling between 31-40 mph. The posted speed limit was 25 mph. In determining if there was a sight line restriction, it was decided that at a posted speed of 25 mph, it was not a factor. Furthermore, since the driver of V1 drove on the roadway on a daily basis, he should have been familiar with any roadway limitations.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for the driver of V2 was when she began to turn left at the intersection. The Critical Reason for the Pre-Crash Event was coded to this driver as inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see). It was believed that the driver of V2 did stop at the intersection before entering the intersection; however, she did not see V1 approaching. One associated factor coded to this driver was the use of unidentified prescription medications for the treatment of high blood pressure and diabetes.