This single vehicle night time collision occurred at approximately 2144 hours on an undivided two-way suburban road consisting of one travel lane in each direction and a two-way turn lane. There was legal parking adjacent to the travel lanes on both sides of the road. The pre-crash roadway was straight with a 2% downhill grade. The road surface is bituminous and it was raining at the time of the crash so the road surface was wet. The road has a posted speed limit of 56 kph (35 mph). The roadway was illuminated by street lights and there were no sight restrictions or road defects in the crash area.

Vehicle #1 (V 1), a 2005 Chevrolet Malibu 4 door, was southbound in lane one approaching a controlled intersection. The driver, a 20 year old male, lost control for unknown reasons and entered a counterclockwise yaw and departed the west side of the road, impacting a concrete curb with the right front wheel. V 1 then crossed a planting strip and sideswiped a small wooden post with the right rear quarter panel. V 1 continued on a southbound trajectory down the sidewalk,entered, crossed and departed the intersecting roadway, impacted the south curb with the right rear wheel, then impacted a large wooden utility pole with the right side. After the impact with the pole V 1 rotated a complete 180 degrees around the pole and the front of V 1 impacted a metal utility box. V 1 came to rest on the south side of the pole facing generally west. V 1 was towed due to damage. Interviews with the driver and passenger were not obtained. V 1 was a rental car, so the driver was not familiar with the vehicle. According to the PAR and also scene evidence and damage to V 1, the driver was traveling at a speed that was excessive for the conditions. Medical records indicated a blood alcohol level of .243 (BAC). The medical reports did not indicate if driver was taking any medication or was ill at the time of the crash. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The Pre-event Movement for was coded as "Going Straight". The Critical Pre-crash event was coded as "This Vehicle Traveling - Off the edge of the roadway on the right side". The Critical Reason for the critical event driver related factor "too fast for conditions".

Associative factors are the rain and wet roadways, and speed excessive for road conditions.