This two-vehicle crash occurred in the early evening hours in the middle of a four-way intersection, controlled by signals in all directions. It was dark at the time of the incident, but streetlights were present. The divided roadway was dry, straight, and level with a posted speed limit of 64kmph (40mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1993 Ford F-150 with several post manufacturing modifications, was stopped facing north in lane four (the designated left turn lane) intending to make a left at the intersection. V2, a 1998 Jeep Cherokee, was traveling south intending to continue straight through the intersection. As V1 turned into the path of V2 the front of V2 struck the right side of V1. The impact caused V1 to spin clockwise approximately 180 degrees before coming to final rest. Vehicle two spun clockwise about 45 degrees before coming to final rest. Both vehicles had to be towed from the scene due to vehicle damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a 41 year-old male, did not suffer any injuries as a result of the impact. Communication with the driver was difficult as he was both deaf and mute. The officer on scene smelled alcohol on the driver and performed a field sobriety test on him, which he subsequently failed. An interview could not be obtained from the driver on-scene because he was taken into police custody. A follow-up interview couldn't be obtained due to complications in his ability to communicate that are listed above. V1 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The reason for the Critical Precrash Event was coded as misjudgment of other's gap or speed. The only known associated factor for this crash was the presence of alcohol in the driver as he was intoxicated.

The driver of V2, a 30 year-old male, was not injured as a result of the collision. There was one other occupant present in the right front passenger seat. She had possible injuries, but was not transported to a medical facility for treatment. Numerous attempts at an interview could not yield any additional information.

The Critical Precrash Event for this vehicle was coded as other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction over left lane line. The reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. There are known associated factors for this crash, as the driver was not thought to have contributed to the crash.