This two-vehicle crash occurred just before noon during daylight hours on a dry, straight, undivided, bituminous, state highway at the intersection with a private driveway. The highway runs north and south. Northbound traffic, south of the intersection, consists of a right turn lane, two through lanes and a left turn lane. Southbound traffic, north of the intersection, consists of a right turn lane and two through lanes. There are no traffic controls regulating the flow from the private drive, but just south of the driveway is a traffic control light with pedestrian signals. The speed limit is 72 kmph (45 mph) and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions present at the time. Traffic was congested at this time.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1988 Chevrolet Caprice sedan driven by a 25 year-old male with one passenger was traveling north in lane four, the left turn lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Dodge Ram pickup,driven by a 31 year-old female was traveling southbound in lane one, the right turn lane. There were several non-contact vehicles stopped in the two southbound through lanes for an approaching red light. The non-contact vehicles left a space in traffic for V1. V1 turned left across a double yellow lane line towards a private drive. The right side of V1 was contacted by the front of V2. After impact, V1 rotated clockwise and it's back left tire contacted a curbed median. V1 came to final rest on the curbed median in the entrance to the private drive facing northwest. After impact, V2 was driven to a controlled final rest in a parking space on the north side of the same parking lot. V1 was towed due to moderate right side damage and a damaged back left wheel. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.

The non-contact vehicles in the travel lanes created a sight line problem for both the driver of V1 and the driver of V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: turned with obstructed view.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction, over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.