V1, a 1998 Chevrolet Silverado, was traveling southbound on a wet four-lane undivided (two lanes each direction) asphalt roadway in the second lane of travel. The roadway was level and curved to the right. The posted speed limit was 72 kmph (45 mph). It was daylight and had just started to snow. V1 was intending to go straight and was following behind V2, a 1994 Pontiac Bonneville. V2 was also intending to go straight. The driver of V1 was a 23-year old male. The driver of V2 was a 77-year old female.

A car in front of V2 made a sudden stop. V2 braked hard in order to avoid contacting the non-contact vehicle. V1 tried to stop, but could not in time and its right front contacted the left rear of V2. V2 came to final rest there on the roadway. The momentum of V1 combined with the offset impact to the rear of V2 sent V1 to the left across the double yellow lines and into oncoming traffic. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V3, a 2000 Pontiac Grand Am, was traveling the northbound on the same roadway in the second northbound lane. V3 was driven by an 18-year old female who claimed that she did not see V1 until the last moment because of the curve. V1's front left contacted the left front of V3. V3 then spun around 180 degrees and before coming to final rest facing south on the roadway. V1 also came to final rest facing south on the roadway.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V1 was when another vehicle was in his lane traveling in the same direction while decelerating. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as inattention, a recognition error. It was believed that the driver of V1 was not paying attention to what was going on around him and then when V2 began to brake hard, he did not react in time. He admitted that he did not lock up his brakes even when V2 had slowed almost to a stop. For this reason, an associated factor coded to this driver was inadequate evasive action. The driver of V1 reported that he was familiar with both his vehicle and the roadway. He reported that he was not in a hurry and felt rested. No medical factors contributed to the crash. Police did not consider either alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no tests.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V2 was when another vehicle was in her lane traveling in the same direction, but at a higher speed. The Critical Reason was not coded to the driver of V2. At the time of the crash, the driver of V2 was traveling to a doctor appointment. She reported that she was in a hurry to get there. She stated that she was talking to her passenger in her vehicle at the time of the crash about the passenger's illness. She reported that she was upset by recent news she had received. Although these factors were coded as associated factors, it should be pointed out that the driver of V2 was able to stop in time without striking the non-contact vehicle in front of her that had suddenly stopped. It is possible that her reaction time was delayed, but she was able to avoid the vehicle in front of her. She was wearing her prescription lenses that corrected a myopic (nearsighted) condition and was taking an unknown heart medication. She reported that she was not fatigued at the time of the crash. Police did not consider either alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no tests.

No Critical Precrash Event and no Critical Reason were coded to the driver of V3 because she was not involved in the first harmful event (the impact between the front of V1 and the rear of V2). The driver of V3 was on her way to work and was not in a hurry and not fatigued. She was familiar with both the roadway and her vehicle. She claimed that she was attentive to her driving but had no time to react to V1 entering her lane due to the curve in the road. She was wearing her prescription lenses at the time of the crash that corrected a myopic (nearsighted) condition. She was also taking a prescription antibiotic that had no known performance-impairing side effects. Police did not consider either alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no tests.

In summary, the crash occurred when the driver of V1, who was inattentive to the driving task, failed to brake in time to avoid striking the rear of V2. This impact redirected V1 to the left, where it entered the oncoming lane of traffic and struck the front of V3.