The crash occurred in an intersection controlled by a traffic signal on a clear, dry weekend in the late afternoon. V1, a 1994 Chevrolet Blazer, was traveling northbound in lane one on a three-lane, straight, level bituminous road. The driver of V1, a 20 year-old female, saw the green light ahead and as she approached the intersection she leaned down to pick up a container of decongestant medicine. When she looked back up the light was yellow and she decided to go through the intersection, traveling slightly above the posted 56kph (35mph) speed limit. Traffic was stopped in the westbound left turn lane of the cross street and the driver did not see any vehicles moving near the intersection.

V2, a 2001 Chrysler Sebring, was traveling westbound on a five-lane straight, level, bituminous road in lane two approaching the same intersection. The traffic signal turned green for V2 so the 28 year-old female driver, moving at about the posted 72kph (45mph) speed limit, proceeded through the light. The front of V2 contacted the right side of V1 in the intersection. The driver of V2 saw V1 two seconds prior to the crash and had no time for avoidance maneuvers. The left side of V2 then struck the right side of V1. V2 then traveled to the northwest corner where it left the roadway. The front of V2 struck the cement base (85cm) of a signpost and came to rest with the left side against a utility pole facing northwest. V2 was towed from the scene due to damage. The driver and passenger airbags deployed and the fully restrained driver, who was extricated from the vehicle, was transported due to injuries. The five year-old male and the three year-old female in the rear seat also were transported to a local trauma center. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 rotated counterclockwise to final rest in the northwest quadrant of the intersection facing north. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage and the fully restrained driver and 25 year-old male in the right front seat were transported due to injuries. The Critical Precrash Event coded to this driver was 'this vehicle traveling-crossing over (passing through) intersection'. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as 'a decision error/illegal maneuver'. The driver stated that instead of slowing down for the yellow light she decided to go through it, which then turned red as she did so. An 'internal distraction' was coded as a Contributing Factor which occurred when the driver leaned over to pick up her medicine, which resulted in her taking her eyes off of the road and the traffic signal. An additional Contributing Factor was coded of a 'sight line restriction' because the driver of V1 stated that due to several large vehicles stopped in the westbound left turn lane blocking her view of V2, she did not see V2 until just prior to impact. Related to this, an associated factor was coded for this driver's myopic vision, that she does not have corrective lenses for, although they are not required on her driver's license.

This driver also was coded for other Contributing Factors of fatigue, as she works 55 hours per week, has young children who “wear her out”, and had been moving furniture at home during the week prior to the crash. Health conditions coded include asthma, allergies and a cold. Her medications are a prescribed bronchodilator for the asthma, progestin, and an over-the-counter decongestant for the allergies and cold. Some of the possible side effects for these medications are dizziness, sleeplessness, anxiety, tension, and tremors, which can be increased by the use of some antihistamines. Finally, the crash occurred the day before a holiday and the driver's schedule was filled with a series of short stops in preparation for the next day.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to the driver of V2 was 'other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path'. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. There were no contributing or associated factors coded for this driver. She was wearing her required corrective lens, reported no health, stress or emotional concerns and was familiar both with the roadway and her vehicle. The vehicle had no mechanical defects found during the inspection. The driver is properly licensed and police did not consider either alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no tests.