This crash occurred at an intersection between two; five-lane roadways controlled by a traffic signal without pedestrian cross signals. There were two lanes traveling both directions with a center left turn lane in each direction. The bituminous roadways were straight, level, and dry at the time of the crash. It was a clear weekday afternoon and the posted speed was 76kmph (45mph). V1 (2005 Ford Five Hundred) was traveling south in lane two moving into the left turn lane as it approached the intersection. V2 (1979 Chevrolet Malibu) was traveling north approaching the intersection in lane two with the green light. V3 (2005 Buick Terraza) was westbound in lane one stopped at the light waiting to make a right turn. V1 right side was contacted by V2 front as it began it's left turn in the intersection. The force of impact pushed V1 in a northeasterly direction where it contacted V3 left side. V1 came to final rest along side of V3 blocking the second westbound lane of travel. V2 had rotated clockwise after impact and came to final rest facing east in lane one of the northbound lanes of the intersection.

V1 was driven by an 82 year-old female that claimed she is in good health but despite having a heart condition, which she takes medication for. She does wear glasses to correct an unknown condition. She had just come from having dinner and was on her way to the store. She states that she was thinking of the things she needed to buy and that she was not in a hurry. She said that it was very bright at the time of the crash. She states that she did slow to check traffic but did not see anything coming. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, turning left in intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded driver related error, recognition error inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). The associated factors were driver inattention as she was thinking about what she was going to buy at the store and that she did not look far enough ahead before making her turn.

V2 was driven by a 58 year-old male who states that he is in fair health due to a heart condition and diabetes (for which he takes medication for). He wears glasses to correct a myopic (near sighted) condition. This driver stated that he was on his way to take his wife to the eye doctors. He said that they were not in a hurry and that he had a clear view of the southbound vehicle. He saw her move into the left turn lane but she did not stop she just continued to turn and he could not stop in time. He states that after contact he rotated counter clockwise to face the left turn lane on the East side of the intersection. That was his final rest.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction-over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this driver. The associated factor for this driver was inattention; his thoughts were on his wife's health at the time of the crash. His wife has been on a feeding tube for some time now and is not in good health. She was crushing up some medication and putting it into the feeding tube at the time of the crash.

V3 was driven by a 48 year-old female traveling west on the roadway that had come to a stop at the intersection intending to turn right (she was driving a GM Corp. vehicle was advised to stop interview by her boss as it states in her contract that without consent from Corp. Head Quarters she could be terminated). She did note that she had looked to the right and then looked to the left and saw vehicles coming so she did not make her turn. She then claimed that a northbound vehicle crashed with a vehicle that she did not know where it came from. She also indicated that her vehicle was struck on the left side by the vehicle that had come from the unknown direction.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V3 was coded other, not involved in first harmful event. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle.