This crash occurred at an intersection between a four-lane one-way southbound roadway and a four lane one-way eastbound roadway. The eastbound lanes went down to three lanes on the East side of the intersection. The intersection was controlled by a properly functioning traffic light. It was a clear sunny weekend afternoon. The roadway was dry. The southbound roadway was curved to the left and had a +3/122 incline with a posted speed of 59 kmph (35 mph). The Eastbound roadway was straight and had a +6/122 incline with a posted speed of 42 kmph (25 mph). On the northwest corner was a building 4 meters from the eastbound roadway and 8 meters from the southbound roadway. There was also a cedar tree right at the corner of the building.

V1, a 2002 Chevrolet G-series van, exited the interstate southbound and was merging across all four lanes to turn into a parking lot on the southwest side of the intersection. V2, a 1992 Mercury Topaz was eastbound. As V1 approached the intersection the driver was changing lanes from lane three to lane two at about the center of the intersection. V2 (traveling in lane #1) entered the intersection and contacted the right front side of V1 and rotated counter-clockwise to a final rest in lane three of the southbound lanes. V1 traveled off the road to the left through a fence and coming to final rest in some trees. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 21 year-old male who claimed to be in very good health. He stated he had just exited the interstate and was merging to the right so he could turn into a parking lot on the other side of the intersection. He and another occupant said they had a green light as they approached the intersection. The driver also stated that there was a building on his right side that was obstructing his view of the oncoming traffic.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason for the critical event was coded: a recognition error, inadequate surveillance. Associated factors were an obstructed view, and the driver was conversing with the other occupants.

V2 was driven by a 54 year-old male in health was good but does wear glasses for a Myopic (near sighted) condition. He also takes a medication for diabetes but does not feel it effects his driving. He drives this roadway every day from work and claims to have gotten good at timing the traffic lights from his work place to the interstate. He stated that his view of on coming traffic was obstructed by the building to his left (the north west corner). He transported with non-incapacitating injuries and V2 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The Critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor was the driver's obstructed view.

The witness to this crash told the police officer on scene that the southbound vehicle (V1) had run the traffic light. The witness stated to me that as her vehicle was approaching the intersection she was about a half block back and the light was green but the next time she looked up as the vehicles were in contact and traveling to final rest the light was red.

The one occupant to V1 that gave me an interview stated as they exited the interstate the traffic light was green. He also stated the occupants of the vehicle were all talking about where the parking lot was on the other side of the intersection.