This crash occurred in the early afternoon of a weekday at the intersection of a divided five-lane roadway and a highway off-ramp. The bituminous off-ramp was dry and straight with an uphill grade greater than 2%. The road also had a speed limit of 56kmph (35mph). The five-lane roadway was divided into three eastbound lanes and two westbound lanes. The roadway was dry and straight with a downhill grade greater than 2%. The speed limit for this roadway was 40kmph (25mph). It was daylight and cloudy at the time of the crash.

V1, a 2004 Chevrolet Colorado Pick-up, was northbound in lane two of the highway off-ramp approaching the intersection, intending to turn left. V2, a 2004 Jeep Liberty, was eastbound in lane one of the roadway approaching the same intersection. As V1 proceeded into the intersection with the green light its front end struck the right side of V2. Both vehicles came to final rest in the center of the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 37 year-old male in good health who was wearing lenses that corrected an unknown condition. He stated that as he approached the intersection the light turned green and he proceeded into the intersection, intending to turn left. That was when he struck V2. The driver was transported to a treatment facility with minor injuries and his vehicle was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded as other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associated factors and V1 was not thought to have contributed to the crash.

V2 was driven by a 23 year-old female in good health and on her way to do some shopping. She stated that the crash was her fault, as she ran the red light but would not give a reason why. She was transported to a treatment facility with minor injuries and her vehicle was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a decision error, an illegal maneuver by the driver of V2 (running the red light). The associated factors for V2 include inadequate surveillance as the driver failed to look either side ahead, as well as an illegal maneuver, failure to stop for a TCD.