The crash occurred at the intersection of a five-lane arterial highway that runs east/west and a two-lane side street that intersects from the north. The five-lane highway had two lanes in each direction along with a center turn lane. It was level with a curve left (south) from the westbound travel direction. The curve radius was 225 meters, which meets the minimum AASHTO standards. The posted speed limit was 72 kmph (45mph). There were traffic signals on colors with pedestrian signals for all directions of travel. The crash occurred on a weekday morning during rush hour. There were no adverse weather conditions.

Vehicle 1 was a 1995 Nissan Altima stopped in the left turn lane preparing to turn left from the eastbound direction to head north on the intersecting side street. The traffic control displayed solid green for both east and west travel directions. Vehicle 2, a 1998 Saturn SL2, was traveling west in the right lane when a public transit bus in front of it slowed to stop at a pickup point to take on passengers. Vehicle 2 changed lanes to the left to go around the bus and continue straight through the intersection when it was struck in the left side near the front end by the front of Vehicle 1, which had proceeded with its left turn. Vehicle 1 came to rest facing north in the right westbound lane about five meters north of impact. Vehicle 2 came to rest facing northwest in its original travel lane about 12 meters west of POI. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle 1 was driven by a 17-year old female who was on her way to school. She was belted and her frontal airbags deployed. She was uninjured in the crash.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for Vehicle 1 was "This vehicle traveling: Turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for The Critical Pre-Crash Event was a decision error: False assumption of other's actions. The driver assumed that Vehicle 2 was going to stop behind the bus and yield the right of way in the intersection rather than pass the bus and go through the intersection. Some contributing associated factors were driver inexperience as she had only been driving for a year, the use of allergy medications, and the driver's focusing on her left turn destination.

Vehicle 2 was driven by a 45-year old male who was on his way from his third-shift job to some college courses he was taking across town. He was belted and his frontal airbags deployed. He was transported to a local trauma center for treatment of incapacitating injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 estimated his travel speed at the time he entered the intersection to be about 35 mph.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for Vehicle 2 was "Other Vehicle Encroachment: From opposite direction-over left lane line." The Critical reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. A contributing associated factor was that this driver (V2) falsely assumed that since Vehicle 1 was turning left that it would yield the right of way because he was going straight. The driver wears glasses to correct his vision. There was also a traffic flow interruption factor; the transit bus was stopping in the right westbound lane.