This crash occurred on a Saturday evening involving two passenger cars at an intersection with traffic lights. The speed limit for the roadway is 48 kmph (35 mph). The road was a 3-lane divided (no positive barrier) curved concrete roadway for westbound approach to the intersection. It was a straight four-lane roadway for eastbound approach to the intersection. The eastbound fourth lane was a left turn lane with a left turn arrow at an intersection. The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Chevrolet Equinox, was traveling east attempting a left turn from the fourth lane of traffic at an intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Honda Accord, was traveling west in the third lane. At the intersection, the front of V2 impacted with the right side of V1. V1 rotated counter clockwise and came to rest facing north. V2 rotated clockwise after the impact, and came to rest within the intersection facing northwest. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. No injuries were reported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 43 year old male, who was traveling with a 37 year old female passenger. This vehicle did not have a protected left turn arrow at the intersection. The driver looked prior to executing his turn but did not see V2. The driver had a limited view of V2 due to shrubs and bushes in the median. It was the first time the driver had driven on this road. The critical pre crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at an intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as an environmental factor: view obstructed by roadway design/furniture.

V2 was driven by a 21 year old female. The critical pre- crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over left lane line. No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle, although the driver finished talking on the phone moments before the crash, and was still holding the phone in her right hand. The line of sight was limited for this driver as well. A large pine tree was limiting the line of sight for both drivers prior to the intersection.