The crash occurred on a clear, dry weekend mid-morning in an interchange area at the intersection of a roadway crossing over an interstate highway and an exit ramp controlled by an on colors traffic signal. The level, concrete, one-way, two-lane (with an adjacent right channelized lane) road had a posted speed limit of 64kmh (40mph) and a downhill slope >2%. The traffic signal had turned green and a line of traffic was still at a complete stop. V2 was stopped behind V3 in lane one heading northeast.

V1, a 1989 Plymouth Reliant, was traveling northeast in lane two at 40-48kmh (25-30mph) behind a cargo van. The 55 year-old female driver stated that she was uncomfortable driving behind a vehicle without windows because she could not see anything in the road ahead. The driver of V1 changed lanes to the right and immediately saw that traffic in lane one was stopped. The driver applied the brakes and V1, not equipped with anti-lock brakes, skidded longitudinally and then impacted V2. The front of V1 struck the rear of V2. The driver of V1 was cited for 'Careless Driving'. V1 came to rest in lane one facing north, partially in lane one, with the right rear of V1 on the right shoulder. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver was transported to a local trauma center where she was treated and released. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Critical Precrash Event coded for V1 was 'other motor vehicle in lane-other vehicle stopped.' The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was 'inadequate surveillance' as the driver of V1 changed lanes without being able to safely see the traffic in the next lane. A Contributing Factor of a 'sight line restriction' was coded because the non-contact van right in front of V1 in lane two blocked her view of traffic ahead in lane one. Associated Factors coded for this driver are related to health conditions and prescribed medications taken for diabetes, high blood pressure, cholesterol and a mild thyroid condition. Possible side effects include headache, fatigue and dizziness, although these effects for all four medications are listed as mild or less common. Additional health conditions are bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome, a herniated disc at L5, and an impinged shoulder. The driver stated that those conditions do not affect her driving and she had taken no medications for them. The driver does not work due to medical disabilities. The driver reported no fatigue, emotional or stress issues and was familiar both with her vehicle and with the roadway. The driver was experienced and properly licensed and was not in a hurry. There were no vehicle defects found during inspection and police did not consider alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no tests.

V2, a 1996 Plymouth Neon driven by a 16 year-old female, after impact with V1, was pushed forward into V3. The front of V2 struck the rear of V3, a 1997 GMC Jimmy. The front of V2 under rode the back of V3. V2 came to final rest partially under V3 with both vehicles facing northeast in lane one. V2 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver sought medical treatment from a local trauma center by private transportation, where she was treated and released, following the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event coded for V2 'other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. There were no Contributing Factors coded for this driver. She was properly licensed and familiar with both her vehicle and with the roadway. She reported no health or emotional concerns or stress. The driver was wearing her required corrective lenses for a myopic condition. Associated Factors include the driver having a social conversation with the passenger, and her birth control prescribed medication with no reported side effects that might affect driving. Neither of these was thought to have contributed to the crash. There were no vehicle defects found during the inspection. Police did not consider alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no tests.

The 53 year-old female driver, who was fully restrained and uninjured in the crash, drove V3, the 1997 GMC Jimmy, from the scene. The Critical Precrash Event and the Critical Reason were not coded to V3. The properly licensed driver reported no emotional or stress related concerns. She was not fatigued, and was familiar both with her vehicle, and with the roadway. There were no mechanical defects found during the vehicle inspection. Police did not consider either alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no tests. Associated Factors coded for this driver are related to her prescribed medications taken for diabetes, high blood pressure and menopause. Possible side effects for the blood pressure medication are headache, dizziness and fatigue. Possible side effects for the menopause medication are blurred vision, tiredness, dizziness, nervousness and weakness, and additionally carries a warning that the drug 'can make you tired; be careful when driving'. As the driver of V3 was stopped in traffic when struck, these were not thought to have contributed to the crash.