The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a two-way, eight-lane, divided roadway with concrete curbed median. There were four southbound and four northbound lanes. This was a straight, level, bituminous roadway, with a posted speed of 72 kmph (45 mph). Conditions were dark with street lights, during a weekday evening with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 2003 Nissan 350Z with two occupants, was traveling southbound in the left turn lane (lane four). V2, a 1995 Toyota Corolla with two occupants, was traveling northbound in the through lane (lane four). V1 attempted to make a U-turn in front of V2. The front of V2 made contact with the right rear of V1. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

V1, the Nissan 350Z, was driven by a 17-year old male who reported possible injuries, and was transported to the hospital by his parents. The driver's parents declined to allow their son to be interviewed.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was this vehicle making a "U" turn The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was an unknown decision error. In this particular case, without the driver interview, a preponderance of evidence could not be determinately established. One associated factor for this driver was an illegal maneuver. The driver failed to yield the right-of-way to V2. Another possible associated factor could have been inexperience. The driver would have been licensed for less than one year.

V2, the Toyota Corolla, was driven by a 23-year old male, who was not injured. He said he saw the other vehicle, but thought the other driver was going to wait until he had passed before turning. He said that the other driver turned at the last minute. He hit the brakes but did not have enough time to stop.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction over the left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. One associated factor for this driver was a decision error. The driver falsely assumed that the other driver would yield the right-of-way.