V1, a 1995 Toyota Camry 4 door sedan, was westbound in lane 2 of a 6 lane undivided straight, level urban roadway (3 lanes eastbound, 3 lanes westbound). V1 was approaching a controlled 4-way intersection with a north/south roadway. V2, a 1992 Honda Accord station wagon, was stopped in lane 3 of an undivided, 5-lane urban roadway (1 northbound, 4 southbound) facing south, at the same controlled intersection. V3, a 2005 Ford Escape SUV, was stopped beside V2 in the second lane of travel, also facing south at the same intesection. When the light turned green, V2 and V3 accelerated to proceed straight through the intersection. V1 continued to proceed straight through the intersection on a red light. V1's front contacted the left side of V2. The force of this impact forced V2's right side into the left side of V3. At the time of the daylight crash, there were no adverse weather conditions and the roads were dry. Vehicles 2 and 3 were towed due to damage. V1 was driven from the scene. None of the occupants in any of the three vehicles were injured.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded “Other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path.” The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle; however, several associated factors were coded to its driver. First, an illegal maneuver was coded (running a red light). A complete interview with the driver of V1, a 53-year old male, as well as an inspection of his vehicle was obtained at the scene. The driver was found to be familiar with both the roadway and the vehicle as well as properly licensed for the vehicle. He was not late or in a hurry and speed did not seem to be a factor. There were no indications of fatigue or aggressive driving on his part but he was cited for running a red light. When questioned, the driver of V1 stated that he was not distracted by anything; however, he thought he had a green light as he entered the intersection. An associated factor coded to this driver was inadequate surveillance, because he failed to look before entering the intersection. The driver of V1 was taking a diabetes medication that had no known performance-impairing side effects. He was wearing his prescription lenses that corrected a myopic (nearsighted) condition to a level of 20/10. The vehicle inspection yielded no indications that mechanical defects contributed to the causation of the crash. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V2 was coded “This vehicle traveling - crossing over (passing through) intersection.” The Critical Reason was coded as inadequate surveillance, because the driver of V2 failed to look to either side ahead before entering the intersection. A complete interview with the driver of V2, a 55-year old female, was obtained at the scene and the vehicle was later inspected. The driver was found to be familiar with both the roadway and the vehicle and was running a short errand at the time of the crash. She was not late and not in a hurry and was properly licensed for her vehicle. There were no indications of fatigue, aggressive driving or vehicle defects as contributing to the cause of the crash. She was wearing her prescription lenses (bifocals) that corrected both myopic and hyperopic conditions.

No Critical Precrash Event and no Critical Reason were coded to the driver of V3 because she was not involved in the first harmful event (the impact between the front of V1 and the left side of V2). The driver of V3, a 64-year old female, was not thought to have contributed to the crash. A complete interview with the driver of V3 and an inspection of that vehicle were obtained. The properly licensed driver of V3 was familiar with both the roadway and vehicle. She was taking three prescription medications - a blood pressure medication, a cholesterol-lowering medication, and an antihistamine. Only the antihistamine had any possible performance-impairing side effects (drowsiness). The driver of V3 was wearing her prescription lenses at the time of the crash, which correct a hyperopic (farsighted) condition to a level of 20/20. When the crash occurred, the driver of V3 was running errands and was not late or in a hurry. There were no indications of aggressive driving or fatigue on the part of the driver of V3. The inspection of V3 revealed no indications that its mechanical condition contributed to the causation of the crash.