The crash occurred in the exit lane of a five lane high occupancy, high volume interstate. There are five southbound lanes as well as an exit lane. The interstate featured an emergency paved shoulder on each side of the road. It was early morning on a weekday, the roads were wet, as it had been raining off and on, but the skies were clearing. The traffic flow was normal for that time of day (rush hour bumper to bumper) and the roadway is straight and level. The posted speed limit is 105 kmph (65 mph).

V1, a 2005 Toyota Corolla CE, who was traveling in lane one, the exit lane, behind V2, a 2002 Chevy Express Van 2500 approaching the exit ramp. V2 came to a stop in the morning rush hour traffic, V1 tried to stop in time but was unable to as he impacted V2 back bumper. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 26 year-old male in good health, rested, and traveling home. He stated that he was intending to exit the expressway and estimated his speed to be around 32kmph (20 mph). The driver of V1 was uninjured but V1 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded as other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The Critical Event was a decision error, too fast for conditions as it had been raining off and on and the roads were slick. The associative factors related to this driver were, traveling too fast for conditions (did not realize that caution was required), following to closely (Rush hour, heavy traffic), and highway related factors of rush hour congestion combined with slick, wet roads. V1 was also a rental car that had been rented the pervious day, the driver not very comfortable with vehicle as he stated in the interview he had only driven it twice.

V2 was driven by a 61 year-old male in good health, was rested and commuting to work. He stated he stopped in the exit lane with traffic when he was hit from behind. The driver of V1 was uninjured and V1 was driven from the scene.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded as other vehicle in lane, traveling in the same direction with higher speed. The critical event was not coded for this vehicle. The only associated factor for this vehicle was the rush hour congestion and slick, wet roads. V1 was thought not to have contributed to the crash.