The two-vehicle crash occurred several feet from the corner of an intersection. A red controlled the intersection for vehicle one and white octagon shaped stop sign. The posted speed limit was 40kmph (25mph). The asphalt roadway was dry, level, and there weren't any adverse weather conditions. The crash occurred on a weekday during rush hour. The traffic flow was busy and at times congested. The rather small intersection was not busy, however, the southbound lane that vehicle one entered is a major roadway and very busy.

Vehicle one, a 1994 Pontiac Grand AM*, was traveling east on a one-lane roadway, travel speed unknown, when it made a right turn onto a four lane (two south and two north) roadway, traveled several feet and contacted, with its front end, the rear of a parked vehicle, (V2), a 1996 Nissan Maxima. Vehicle two was parked legally. Vehicle two was pushed up several feet after the impact and incurred moderate damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of vehicle one (V1) said that while he was making the right turn onto the major roadway was attempting to light his cigarette. He was reaching for the lighter and when he looked up didn't see the parked vehicle until the last minute. He did try to apply his brakes, however, it was too late. The driver of (V1) was an unlicensed driver. He had Pennsylvania identification card to show for identification. He was given a citation for operating a motor vehicle without a license.

The driver of vehicle one was transported directly to the hospital with a 2.5cm laceration to his chin and complained of a pain to his head. It is believed that the driver was not wearing a seatbelt and his chin contacted the steering wheel Vehicle one was towed due to damages.

It's the researcher's opinion that during rush hour the major roadway was very busy and at times congested and the driver, after making a right turn preoccupied traveling a bit faster then the speed limit made a sharp turn and contacted the rear of parked vehicle two.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event was coded for vehicle one; turning right at the intersection. The Critical Pre-Crash Reason also coded for this vehicle; internal distraction. The driver of vehicle one was also driving illegally, without a current drivers license.

*Police PAR list the vehicle as a 1994 model. However, I ran the VIN and it listed the year at 1992