The crash occurred at a T-intersection of an eastbound 5-lane undivided roadway and a northbound driveway exit from a parking lot. The eastbound roadway was a two-way, five-lane roadway with a two-way left turn lane in the middle. Both the eastbound roadway and the driveway were straight, level, bituminous roadways. The posted speed for east/west traffic was 56 kmph (35 mph). Conditions were daylight on a weekday morning with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow in the eastbound direction was backed up for a light at a signalized intersection up ahead.

V1, a 2001 Volkswagen Jetta with one occupant, was stopped at a stop sign at the parking lot exit, waiting to turn left. V2, a 2002 Dodge Intrepid with two occupants, was traveling eastbound in the two-way left turn lane. Traffic in the first two eastbound lanes was backed up for a traffic light ahead. Vehicles in those lanes made space for V1 to pull out. As V1 pulled out to turn left, the front of V1 made contact with the front of V2 in the third (middle) lane of travel. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 23-year old female who sustained possible injuries. She was transported to the hospital from the crash scene by her boyfriend. She stated that she had stopped at the drug store on her way to the hospice to see her grandmother. Eastbound traffic was backed up, but the first two lanes left a gap for her to exit. She said that one of the drivers waved her out. She stated that she didn't see anything, so she cautiously pulled out. The driver indicated that she did not know where the other vehicle came from.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was an "other" decision error, turned with obstructed view. The driver decided to pull out even though she could see approaching traffic that might be traveling in lane 3. She assumed that the way was clear because she was waved out by another driver. There were two recognition related associated factors coded to this driver. The first was inadequate surveillance. The driver looked in the required direction, but did not see V2 coming. The second recognition factor was that the impending problem was masked by the traffic flow pattern. The stopped vehicles in lanes one and two blocked the driver's view. An additional associated factor was highway related. Vehicles that were stopped in the roadway restricted V1's sightline. Finally, the driver of V1 was unfamiliar with the roadway.

V2 was driven by a 45-year old female. She and her passenger were transported by EMS with possible injuries. She stated that she was on her way home from picking up her paycheck. She recalled being in the two-way left turn lane, approaching a traffic light. She stated that she could not see the girl coming from the parking lot because there was a car next to her, blocking her view. According to the driver of V2, she was already in the process of slowing down for the light, so she pushed harder on the brake, but there was nothing she could do to avoid hitting V1.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street turning into opposite direction." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. One associated factor for this driver was recognition related. The impending problem was masked by the traffic flow pattern. Additionally, there was a highway related associated factor. The driver's sightline to V1was restricted by stopped vehicles in the roadway.