This two-vehicle collision occurred during dawn hours on a weekday. The crash occurred at the intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway. The two roadways are not at right angles to each other, and the intersection is controlled by a tri-light traffic signal. Both roadways are designated 56 kmph (35 mph) zones. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse atmospheric conditions, and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Mercedes E320 four-door sedan, was traveling westbound in the fourth lane of an eight-lane, two-way, undivided, dry, level, bituminous roadway, approaching an intersection with the intention of passing straight through. Vehicle two (V2), a 1992 Mercedes 300SE four-door sedan, was traveling southbound in the fourth lane of a six-lane, two-way, undivided, dry, level, bituminous roadway, approaching the same intersection with the intention of turning left into eastbound traffic. As both vehicles entered the intersection, the front of V1 impacted the left side of V2. Both vehicles deflected northwest, and V1 departed the road over the northwest corner, where the front of V1 impacted a steel pole, bringing the vehicle to rest. V2 came to rest facing northeast in the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The male driver of V1 commandeered a nearby vehicle and absconded from the scene, unidentified. Evidence and witness statements indicate that the driver of V1 activated the brakes and steered right as he approached the intersection during the red phase of the tri-light. It is unknown if he saw V2's approach and attempted to avoid a collision, or if he simply braked to avoid running the red light. The critical pre crash event for V1 was: Other vehicle encroachment-from crossing street-turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver related decision error, illegal maneuver.

The 48-year-old male driver of V2 could not be interviewed at the scene due to incapacitating injuries; the interview was conducted at a later time. The driver reported that he was in good health, but he reports having less than normal sleep the night before the collision. He was stopped and then he proceeded into the intersection when the light entered the green phase. He did not observe the approach of V1, and an associative factor of inadequate surveillance is attributed to V2. The critical pre crash event for V2 was: This vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.