This crash occurred on a weekend afternoon on a straight, level stretch of roadway with open fields on both sides of the road and a posted speed of 89 kmph (55mph). The roadway was asphalt covered with blown snow and ice. As V1, a 1996 Plymouth Breeze slowed because of the road conditions it began to lose control and rotate clockwise. The driver then attempted to regain control by steering left which caused further loss of control as the vehicle began rotating counter-clockwise. V1 than skidded across the centerline and contacted V2, a 2000 Chrysler Concord. Both vehicles then side slapped and V1 rotated back clockwise to its final rest in the center of the westbound lane. V2 rotated counter clockwise and slid off the roadway and came to final rest in the ditch on the north side of the roadway.

V1 was driven by a 17 year-old female in good health but does wear glasses to correct a myopic (near-sighted) condition. She stated that her vehicle did not start that morning so a friend offered his vehicle to drive to work. It was the first time driving this vehicle and she stated it was like riding in a tin can. She stated she travels this roadway going to work every day and knew that there were snow-covered areas and knew to slow down. She stated that in this area the vehicle felt like it was being pulled in to the snow and she did not want to be pulled into the ditch. She then overcorrected which caused it to skid in the opposite direction and she crossed the centerline where she contacted the westbound vehicle. She stated that when the vehicles came to final rest she got right out of her vehicle and went to the other vehicle to help the other driver. It was after the EMS and police got to the scene that she realized that she needed to be looked at and was transported to the ER unit. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle control loss due to poor road conditions (puddle, pot hole, ice, etc.). The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded environment related factor- highway related, slick roads (low friction road surface due to ice, loose debris, any other cause). The associated factors were that the driver was driving this vehicle for the first time and was uncomfortable with it as well as this driver being young and inexperienced to winter time driving.

V2 was driven by a 33 year-old female in good health but takes medications for anxiety and tension (which are not believed to have contributed to the crash). She also wears glasses to correct a myopic (near sighted) condition. She stated that she was on her way to her office to pick up medications for a patient. Then she was to take it back to the patient but never made it to her office. She stated she saw the East bound vehicle sliding in the snow which caused her to slow in hopes that the other driver would regain control of the vehicle. V1 did not regain control and crossed the centerline and hit her. She claims not to remember much after that. She did remember that her car to final rest in a ditch on the side of the road. She was transported with incapacitating injuries and her vehicle was towed due to damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction - over left lane line. The Critical Reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle. The associated factors to this driver were that she may have distracted from the task at hand as she was upset about her patient schedule and that she had to drive back to her office to pick-up medications for her last patient and drive back to the patient home before going back to the office to clock out for the day.