This single vehicle roll-over crash occurred mid-afternoon day-light hours on a two-lane asphalt constructed roadway. This roadway runs north to south with a downgrade of -6 percent and a left hand curve when going north. The area of this crash is in a rural setting with a posted speed of 89 kmph (55 mph). There are warning signs for this grade and curve. This roadway has a guard rail on the east side with improved shoulders for both sides. On the west side the extended shoulder is dirt with a down grade slope of -8 percent and drops into a drainage ditch. There are various sized trees and bushes along the drain ditch.

Vehicle one (V1) a 1999 Old's Alero sedan driven by a 25 year-old male with one passenger was traveling northbound when the driver stated a small animal crossed the roadway and he steered right to avoid it. Once he crossed the fog line on the right, the right wheels went off the road edge. He stated he rode the edge a short distance then steered left back on to the roadway. As the vehicle returned to the roadway it suddenly began to rotate counter-clockwise and crossed both traffic lanes while rotating and exited the left road edge skidding sideways. Once off the road edge V1 tripped and rolled over 2 quarters onto its roof Then slid down into the drainage ditch and slid north in the drainage ditch. The driver was found to be under the influence of alcohol with a 0.084 BAC. The driver was tested on-scene by police. V1 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: object or animal, animal in roadway. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: overcompensation. The driver of V1 was traveling over the posted limit. He had consumed alcohol and marijuana. He also stated he was working on a relatives vehicle earlier and was in a hurry because he was late for a social appointment. He said he had concerns within his family due to a personal problem and was conversing with the passenger while driving.