This single vehicle crash occurred in the evening on a weekday on a 2-lane undivided roadway in a suburban part of town. The level, straight road ran north and south with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). It was still daylight out and the weather was clear.

V1, a 2000 GMC Safari minivan with one occupant, was traveling north on this road when it drove off the right side and down an embankment. V1 struck two reflector road signs as is departed the shoulder, struck a tree and rolled towards its left side. V1 rolled one-quarter times and came to rest on its left side, facing south. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1.

V1 was driven by a 63-year old male. He spent about 3 days per week making deliveries and pickups. He worked an average of 8-9 hours per day and slept an average of 8 hours per day. For this trip, he left his home around 13:00 hours and made several stops before he headed to his father's condominium. He drove nearly 200 miles today while making his stops and completed his final work-related trip around 18:30 hours.

He had been battling flu and cold symptoms for a couple of days and his nose was running all day so he took an antihistamine/decongestant (he said it was a 10-year-old pill) and bought a soda earlier in the afternoon. He admits the pill did not relieve his congestion but instead made him very tired. He bought a coffee in hope of "waking himself up" because he was "fighting to stay alert" later in the day. As he drove north on a 2-lane road, he closed his eyes and drove off the right side of the road. After striking a sign on the roadside, he woke up and realized he has going down an embankment. He immediately "hugged" the steering wheel with both arms and hung on for his life. He was not wearing a seat belt and did not have any control of his vehicle after it left the roadway. Once his GMC Safari came to final rest at the bottom of the embankment, he crawled out of the driver door and through a garden of poison ivy. He was wearing a golf shirt and shorts but no shoes or socks and reported that he suffered more discomfort from the poison ivy he caught than from the crash itself. He did not want to go to the hospital but EMS insisted that he had to go.

He used to live in the area and was familiar with the roadway. He said he was headed to his father's home to tell him he had to move him into a nursing home. He said it was on his mind all day and that he regretted having to tell him because he knew how upset he was going to be.

A witness that was traveling behind V1 stated that he saw V1 veer off the road as if it was changing lanes or exiting a ramp. The witness reported that he never saw a turn signal or brake light on V1 and that once it departed the right of the road "it disappeared."

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason for the Pre-crash Event was that the driver fell asleep. Associated factors coded to this driver included illness (having cold/flu), use of an over-the-counter antihistamine/decongestant, fatigue, and concern about his pending conversation with his father. A narrow shoulder was also coded as a highway-related factor.

NOTE: The vehicle was towed by a non-cooperative tow yard and permission to inspect the vehicle was not granted.