This single-vehicle crash occurred during dawn hours on a weekend. The crash occurred on a straight stretch of dry, level, positively divided, concrete expressway in a 105 kmph (65 mph) zone. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse atmospheric conditions, and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Honda CR-V four-door SUV, was traveling southbound in the fourth lane of the four-lane expressway. A highway work pickup was ahead of V1 in the same lane, with an attached right-arrow sign activated and flashing. The work pickup was moving at slower speed. V1 changed lanes to its right to go around the work truck. The truck then changed lanes to the right as well. The driver of V1 steered right again to avoid a collision with the pickup, then steered sharply left as he went around the pickup. As V1 traversed the second lane, the driver attempted to correct the over-steerage by steering right again, causing the vehicle to lose traction and rotate clockwise. V1 departed the road to the left side, where the left side back panel of V1 impacted the concrete barrier. V1 bounced away from the barrier and began to roll towards its right side at a relatively low roll-rate, crossing the inside southbound lanes on two wheels. V1 completed two quarter-turns and departed the road to the right side, where the top plane of V1 impacted the concrete raised curb, demolishing the curb. V1 slid down an embankment on its top, and the front of V1 impacted a fence, bringing the vehicle to rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is 121 kmph for V1.

The 28-year-old male driver of V1 was on his way to the beach, where he planned to go surfing. He was in good health, and was rested and alert at the time of the crash. He was traveling above the speed limit when he initiated evasive maneuvers. The critical precrash event for V1 was: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason for the event was attributed to the driver of V1, and is coded as a driver related factor: overcompensation.