A four vehicle rear-end crash occurred before noon in the number 3 northbound lane of a concrete divided roadway with three northbound lanes and four southbound lanes. The southbound lanes did not play a role in the collision. The weather at the time of the crash was foggy with an ambient temperature of 34 degrees Fahrenheit (1 degree Celsius). This was just above freezing causing the roadway to be wet and slick. The speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph) at this location and traffic was congested.

Vehicle four (V4) was a 2000 Lexus GS300 sedan and was the lead vehicle involved in the collision. V4 was stopped in the number three northbound travel lane due to congested forward traffic. Stopped behind V4 was vehicle two (V2), a dark blue 2003 Ford Explorer 4-door SUV with two restrained occupants. Vehicle one (V1), a white 1996 Honda Accord 4-door sedan with three restrained occupants was trailing behind vehicle two. The rearmost vehicle involved in this collision was vehicle three (V3), a White 1997 Subaru Legacy station wagon with two restrained occupants Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle two (V2) was a dark blue 2003 Ford Explorer 4-door SUV with two restrained occupants. Vehicle 2 had stopped due to congested traffic for about 30 seconds before it was rear-ended by the front of V1. V1 was traveling north in the third lane going about 56 kmph, 35 mph. The driver of V1 was talking to her sister before the crash. Even though the driver was looking straight she lost attention to the roadway while conversing with the passenger. When the driver noticed that V1 had stopped, the driver reacted too slow and slid into the rear of V2. According to the driver she was 6.1-meters (20-feet) behind V2. Meanwhile, V3 was traveling in the same lane as V1 and V2. V3 was an unknown distance behind V1, but could not stop in time and struck the rear of V1 in the second impact of the crash. During the first impact V1 had under-rode V2 and was underneath V2 when V1 was impacted by V3. This impact pushed V1 and V2 forward. V2's front bumper lightly rear-ended V4's rear plane causing minor damage. V1 was towed from the scene and its two passengers were transported with minor injuries. No other injuries were reported for the crash and no other vehicles were towed from the scene.

At the time of the crash the weather was foggy and the roadway was slick. The temperature was just above freezing. The drivers of V1 and V3 were driving too fast for the weather conditions to avoid the impacts.

The driver of V1 was a 28-year-old female engaged in social conversation with the right front passenger. They were on their way home after going to a bookstore. Due to the conversation, the driver was not paying attention to the task of driving. This also caused the driver to misjudge the gap and speed of the forward traffic because she made a false assumption forward traffic would continue to proceed. After she realized the forward traffic was stopped she braked, but still slid into the back of V2. In conclusion, inattention due to the internal distraction of conversation for the driver of V1 was what made the situation critical for this crash. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was attributed to the driver of V1 as a driver related recognition factor: internal distraction.

The driver of V2 was 24-year-old male who was stopped in traffic behind V4. His right front passenger was engaged in conversation on her cell phone, but the driver was not conversing. They were going on a shopping trip from home when the collision occurred. He stated he looked in his rear view mirror and observed his vehicle get impacted by V1, and then he observed V1 get impacted by V3. He stated that this second impact pushed the front of his vehicle into the back of V4. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to V2.

The driver of V3, a 58-year-old female also was following too close for the environmental conditions to avoid impact with V2. This driver has several medical conditions including: hypertension, arthritis and diabetes. She takes the following medications for those conditions: glyburide, actos, snythroid, hyzaar, norvasc and maxide. The driver was following too close to respond to the unexpected actions of the forward traffic. She misjudged the gap distance of the forward vehicle assuming the forward vehicle would continue to proceed.. She braked and steered left, but still slid into the back of V1. V3 was not involved in first harmful event. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to V3.