The crash occurred on a median divided north/south rural highway with two travel lanes and shoulders in each direction. The road is straight with a 3% uphill grade. Just off the east edge of the road was a guardrail and a negative embankment ranging from 22% - 28%. A dense tree/brush line began 25m north of the beginning of the guardrail and 5m east of the pavement edge. Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight, dry, and cloudy at 1:08pm on a Monday afternoon. The posted speed was 89 KMPH (55mph) and traffic was light.

Vehicle one was a 1996 Dodge Ram 3500 club cab pickup traveling northbound on the highway. The driver drove off the right side of the road and struck a guardrail with the front of the pickup before going down an embankment and contacting a large tree with its front and some brush with its right side. The vehicle came to rest facing north against the tree/brush line. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1.

The 51-year old male driver had several pre-existing medical conditions prior to the crash including: diabetes, hepatitis C, sleep apnea, heart problems, and an injured Achilles tendon on his right foot. His medical report indicated he takes nineteen separate drugs, including several narcotics. Rescue personnel at the scene stated his blood sugar level was within normal range. Based on lack of pre-crash evidence, the police reconstruction team along with NASS researchers, believe that the driver most likely had a medical/drug related issue to cause him to run off the road. The driver's statement was deemed not credible so any further information into cause was not available. He was issued citations by police for failure to maintain lane, no driver's license, no seatbelt, and no insurance. The driver's frontal airbag on the vehicle did not deploy and he was not belted. He was treated and released from a local trauma center with incapacitating injuries. The Critical Precrash Event was coded as “this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side.” The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as “heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act.” This was chosen because it was believed that the driver of the Dodge had passed out at the wheel due to drug interactions and relinquished control of his vehicle. His medication use was coded as an associated factor. He was taking three medications to control his diabetes; neither had any known performance-impairing side effects when taken correctly. He was taking an anti-anxiety medication that had the possible side effect of drowsiness, as well as two antidepressants that both had the possible side effects to dizziness and drowsiness. He was taking two blood pressure medications, one of which had the possible side effects of dizziness and tiredness, and a diuretic that also had the possible side effect of drowsiness. He was taking a medication to control acid reflux that had few side effects, as well as an anti-inflammatory that also had no side effects. He was taking three narcotic pain relievers, all of which had the possible side effects of dizziness and sleepiness. He was also taking a cough suppressant and an antihistamine that had the possible side effects of drowsiness and dizziness. He was also taking a muscle relaxant that had the possible side effect of drowsiness. Lastly, he was taking an asthma medication and he wore a nitroglycerin patch to control chest pain - neither medication had any known performance-impairing side effects.

His physical condition was coded as an associated factor - he was a diabetic who suffered from sleep apnea, for which he was being treated with a C-PAP machine. He also had Hepatitis C and had a torn Achilles tendon. He claimed that he was on his way to the hospital for treatment of the tendon tear when the crash occurred; however, he was headed in the opposite direction of the hospital. He was wearing his prescription glasses at the time of the crash - they corrected a myopic (nearsighted) condition to a level of 20/20. He claimed he was familiar with both his vehicle and the roadway. He stated to the researcher that another (phantom) vehicle ran him off the road and that is how the crash occurred. Due to lack of evidence to support this claim (no impact to his vehicle from another vehicle) and the lack of any skid marks led to dismissal of this claim. It was believed that the driver of the Dodge passed out at the wheel and relinquished control of his vehicle. It was believed that the blackout was caused by a combination of his medical conditions and his usage of many prescription medications, most of which had the possible side effects of dizziness and drowsiness.