This two-vehicle crash occurred on an eastbound, four-lane expressway bordered by shoulders and concrete walls. Just past the crash area, an entrance ramp joins the expressway on the south side. This ramp, as well as the four-lane westbound section did not play a role in the crash. There was heavy congestion on the roadway at the time of the crash. The speed limit on the expressway was 72 kph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one, a 2000 Freightliner FL-70 straight truck was eastbound in the third lane. Vehicle two, a 2003 Nissan Altima was eastbound in the third lane ahead of vehicle one. The front of vehicle one impacted the rear of vehicle two. Vehicle one was not towed due to damage. Vehicle two was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a thirty-eight year old male was driving from his office to make a delivery. This driver had been driving for about thirty-five minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that he was about two car lengths behind vehicle two when vehicle two stopped. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a fifty-three year old female was not interviewed. The medical records indicated that this driver was taking Glyburide and Metformin as medications. There is no other known pre-crash information on this driver. The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane: traveling in same direction with higher speed". The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to vehicle one and was coded as "not coded to this vehicle", for vehicle two.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane: other vehicle stopped". The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to vehicle one and was coded as: "too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others (specified as: Driver was going to fast for the congested conditions)".