V1, A 1998 Buick Regal was traveling northbound on a four lane, two way, dry asphalt roadway in daylight conditions. V1 was traveling in lane one intending to go straight. V2, a 2001 Buick Century was traveling southbound on the same roadway also traveling in lane one intending to go straight. V1 crossed three lanes of traffic to the left where its front contacted the front of V2 before coming to final rest in the roadway. V2 Right side struck the curb before it came to rest partially off the road on the west side of the roadway.

The driver of V1 was a 79-year old male who had reported that he had been traveling between 67-80kmph (41-50mph) prior to the crash. He had a history of high blood pressure a condition he took medication for. He was rested and traveling to the occupant's house. He was wearing his prescribed lenses that corrected an unknown condition. He sustained minor injuries and was transported to a local trauma facility. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V1 was this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the left side of travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was an unknown driver error, type of error unknown because it is not known exactly what happened to the drive that made him cross 3 lanes of traffic.

The driver of V2 was a 60-year old female who reported that she had been traveling between 67-80kmph (41-50mph) prior to the crash. She had a history of depression and takes medication for it. She was rested and traveling to work. She was wearing her prescribed lenses that corrected a myopic (near-sighted) condition. She sustained minor injuries and was transported to a local trauma facility.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V2 was other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to the driver of V2 and she was not thought to have contributed to the crash. She took appropriate avoidance measures.