This two-vehicle crash occurred during daylight hours on a straight, physically divided roadway. This roadway runs east and west at the location of the crash. There are four lanes for westbound traffic that are uphill and three lanes for eastbound traffic that are downhill. The speed limit on this roadway is 105 kmph (65 mph) and there were no adverse weather conditions at the time.

Vehicle one, a 1990 Ford Bronco, was westbound in lane three. Vehicle two, a 2002 Subaru Impreza, was eastbound in lane three. A non-contact vehicle was westbound in lane two and changed lanes to lane three, in front of vehicle one. The driver of vehicle one steered left to successfully avoid the non-contact vehicle. Vehicle one traveled off the left side of the roadway into the median and the front struck the concrete barrier. At this point, debris from vehicle one flew over the barrier and struck the front of vehicle two. Vehicle one rotated counterclockwise, traveled northwest across the roadway and the back struck the right side concrete barrier. Vehicle one came to rest facing south. The driver of vehicle two drove to the next exit and returned to the crash scene to report her involvement in the crash. Vehicle one was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1 and 97 kmph for V2.

The driver of vehicle one was a twenty-three-year-old male. All information on this driver is unknown due to inability to locate him after the crash.

The driver of vehicle two was a twenty-nine-year-old female, who was traveling a familiar route and was well rested.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as "other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane (same direction) - over right lane line." The critical reason was attributed to vehicle one and was coded as "driver related factor: overcompensation." The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "other: not involved first harmful event" and the critical reason was coded as "not coded to this vehicle."