The crash occurred on a rural two-way, two lane, gravel/slag road on a clear weekend afternoon. The road was mostly ice-covered, and contained potholes and ruts, which ran longitudinally down the center portion of the roadway. The road was straight and had a negative 4.9% grade. The unposted speed limit was 89km/h (55mph).

Vehicle 1, a 1997 Saturn 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound. The 15-year old unlicensed driver was traveling at a reduced speed (56km/h 35mph), but lost control of V1 due to ice on the roadway. V1 began to slide to the right in a clockwise rotation, and the driver began to tap lightly on the brakes and steer to the left. V1 then began to rotate counterclockwise, and the driver steered to the right. V1 left the roadway on the left side and the front of V1struck a 30cm diameter tree 1.6 meters north of the road edge. The top 5 meters of the tree broke off at impact and fell on the roof of the vehicle. V1 came to rest on the road facing north, in the westbound lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver and passenger airbags deployed in the impact. The driver and two passengers were transported to a local trauma center due to injuries. The vehicle was towed from the scene due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of Vehicle 1 was when she lost control of her vehicle due to poor road conditions. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as "Too fast for conditions," a decision error. The driver was cited by police for “speed too fast.” Associated factors coded to this driver include distraction in the form of conversation - as per the driver, she and her two passengers were talking on a cell phone (that was on speaker mode) to another friend at the time of the crash. The driver of V1 was an inexperienced driver who was unlicensed and not familiar with either the vehicle or the roadway. The driver stated that her mother had taught her everything she knew about driving and that she had been driving for one year. Another associated factor coded to the driver of V1 was "poor directional control" due to her actions after the vehicle began to skid. Finally, the condition of the roadway was also coded as an associated factor - the road was not paved and had longitudinal ruts running down it, along with a multitude of potholes. The roadway was also covered in slush and ice.

The driver of V1 was wearing contact lenses to correct a myopic condition, and stated that she had no health problems and takes no medication. There appeared to be no fatigue or emotional factors. Police did not consider either alcohol or drugs to be involved and ordered no tests. There were no atmospheric conditions or vehicle defects found to be related to this crash.

In summary, the crash occurred when the unlicensed and inexperienced driver of V1, who was traveling too fast for the ice-covered roadway, lost control, departed the roadway and struck a tree. Associated factors included distraction by conversation, driver inexperience, unfamiliarity with the road and the vehicle, poor directional control, and the condition of the roadway.