This crash occurred during early evening hours involving two passenger cars at an intersection without traffic lights. The southbound lanes had a stop sign. The speed limit for the roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). The road is a 2-lane divided concrete roadway from east to west, and a 2-lane undivided concrete roadway from north to south. The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Mitsubishi Eclipse, was traveling south in the first lane, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1988 Mercury Grand Marquis, was traveling west in the first lane. The front of V1 impacted the right side of V2. V2 rotated clockwise and moved off the road to the north of the westbound lanes. V1 rotated clockwise after the impact and came to rest within the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The right rear occupant of V2 was treated at the scene. No other occupant of V2 or V1 was reported injured. V1 was towed from the scene. V 2 was driven from the scene.

The driver of V1 is a 23-year old male who claimed to be well rested and in good health. He possesses a valid motor vehicle license with no restrictions or endorsements. He was not in a hurry, no previous arguments not conversing, and was attentive to the driving task. He does not take any medication. There was no indication of alcohol or drug involvement. The driver did not seem fatigued at the scene despite coming off a 10-hour workday. He works 50 hours every week and did not have a day off in a long time, except for weekends. He claimed his brakes failed when he tried to stop at the stop sign at the intersection. For this trip he was on his way from work to a friends house.

The critical pre crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). This vehicle approached the stop sign too fast and hit the brakes too late to avoid a collision. The driver of the other vehicle did not notice any avoidance actions by V1. The dynamics of the crash and the lack of skid marks further suggest the driver failed to stop at the stop sign and applied his brakes too late. Traveling too fast, reason unknown, was a contributing factor; as was inadequate surveillance for failing to look to his left and observe V2's presence. The driver stated he was looking straight ahead and had not looked left or right before proceeding into the intersection.

The driver of V2 is a 44-year old female who claimed to be well rested and in good health. She possesses a valid motor vehicle license with no restriction. He was not in a hurry, no previous arguments not conversing, and was attentive to the driving task. There was no indication of alcohol or drug involvement. She slept 8 hours the night before the crash. She is familiar with her vehicle and the roadway. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.