The crash occurred in the right northbound lane of a four-lane, north-south suburban highway with a grass median. There were two northbound lanes and a right side shoulder that was four meters wide with uncontrolled access points on the right. Conditions were daylight and dry with partly cloudy skies in mid afternoon on a weekday. The posted speed limit was 72kph (45mph) and the portion of road where the crash occurred was straight and level.

Vehicle #2 was a 1999 Freightliner Tractor pulling a 53 foot dry van trailer with a combined Gross Vehicle Weight Rating of 80,000lbs. The trailer was empty at the time of the crash. Vehicle #2 was in the right northbound lane slowing to almost completely stopped while attempting to turn right into a private lot. Vehicle #1 was a 2002 Chrysler Sebring traveling north in the right lane and was approaching Vehicle #2 at a rapid rate. Vehicle #1 then impacted the back end of Vehicle #2 after skidding longitudinally for almost 12 meters. Vehicle #1 went under the rear of Vehicle#2 bending Vehicle #2's underride guard to an almost horizontal position. Both vehicles came to rest within 2 meters of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle #2 was driven by a belted 50 year old male who was not injured in the crash. He had over 10 years of experience driving this class of vehicle and did not receive any citations. The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle#2 was Other Motor Vehicle in Lane, Traveling in Same Direction with Higher Speed. The Critical Reason for The Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. There were no Associated Factors coded to this driver or vehicle either. This driver was familiar with the roadway and his vehicle. Vehicle #2 was driven from the scene.

Vehicle #1 was driven by a 33 year old belted female who's vehicles airbags deployed. She was transported to a trauma center with incapacitating injuries. The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was Other Motor Vehicle in Lane, Traveling in the Same Direction While Decelerating. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was Unknown Recognition Error. No Associated Factors were coded because the driver was uncooperative. Vehicle #1 was towed due to damage.