This two-vehicle crash occurred in the early evening on a clear, five-lane undivided roadway with a center turn lane, in a suburban neighborhood. The main roadway runs east and west with north and southbound city streets intersecting the roadway throughout the neighborhood. The speed limit on the east-west road is 35 mph (56 kmph) with several curves and an advisory curve sign posted 25 mph (40 kmph) before the crash. At the location of the crash, is an intersecting 2-lane undivided road controlled by a stop sign.

Vehicle 1, a 2003 Jeep Liberty Sport 4x4, was traveling north on a city street and had stopped at an intersecting road before making a left turn. Vehicle 2, a 2003 Mitsubishi Galant, was traveling east in lane 1 of the five-lane thoroughfare, approaching the same intersecting side street. Vehicle 1 entered the roadway and into the path of V2. The front of V2 struck the left side of V1. After the impact, V1 rotated clockwise 90 degrees and came to rest in the center turn-lane facing east. V2 also came to rest in the center turn-lane facing northeast. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 16-year-old high school student with a Graduated Driver License Level 2, which is a limited provisional license. For this trip, the driver was returning home after studying for exams at her friend's house. Even though she is relatively inexperienced at driving, she was familiar with the roadway and intersection of the crash. The driver states she approached an intersection, stopped for the stop sign, and looked in both directions before she proceeded to turn left. She admitted that she saw V2 approaching her and that she misjudged its speed and distance. After pulling out in front of the Mitsubishi, she tried to avoid the crash by steering right. The front of V2 contacted the left side of her vehicle. V1 was equipped with driver and passenger front airbags that did not deploy in the crash. The belted driver of V1, its sole occupant, was treated by EMS at the scene for minor abrasions. The vehicle was towed from scene but was still drivable.

The Critical Precrash event for V1 was coded: turning left at intersection and the Critical Reason was coded: misjudgment of gap or other's speed. She had been awake for 12 hours after having slept for 6:15 hours the night before. She normally gets 9 hours of sleep per night, so fatigue may have contributed to the crash even though she says she was rested at the start of this trip. This driver was taking a contraceptive, ADHD with possible side effects of dizziness and sleeplessness, and an antidepressant with possible side effects of blurred vision, tiredness, dizziness, sleeplessness, tremors.

The driver of V2 is a 27-year-old male that typically works 40 hours per week as a delivery person. He did not work the day of the crash because he had “other business to take care of.” For this trip, he was returning home after completing all his tasks. He is familiar with the roadway and estimated his speed to be 35 mph (56 kmph) before the Jeep entered his path. The driver stated he was traveling east in lane one of a 5-lane roadway approaching an intersection. As he approached the street, he saw V1 enter his lane from the cross street. He steered left and locked brakes to avoid the crash, but was not able to evade a collision. V2 was also equipped with driver and passenger front airbags that did deploy because of the collision. The driver and right passenger were both belted and received minor abrasions from the airbag. They were both treated by EMS at the scene and the vehicle was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroaching from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. There was no a Critical Reason coded for this vehicle. Before I introduced myself to this driver, I overheard him discuss with somebody on his mobile phone about hearing the crash while talking during the crash sequence. Once the interview began, he denied using his phone during the crash. The road curvature was also coded as contributing factor in this crash.