This single vehicle crash occurred during the day on a level, dry, slightly right-hand curve, six-lane, physically divided state highway. The highway runs east and west at the location of the crash and has three lanes in each direction. The speed limit on the highway is 105 kph (65 mph) and there were no adverse weather conditions at the time.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1990 Chevrolet Geo Tracker was eastbound in lane three, traveling at a high rate of speed and weaving through traffic according to a witness. The tread on the right rear tire separated from the carcass and the tire lost air pressure. V1 initiated a counterclockwise yaw as it traveled off the left side of the roadway. The front of V1 struck a guardrail. V1 continued to rotate counterclockwise and the back right corner struck the guardrail. The vehicle tried to roll over the guardrail and the spare tire mounted on the back plane caused induced damage to the entire back plane. After this impact, vehicle one rolled over to the left three quarter-turns and came to rest on its right side on the north road edge facing south. During the rollover, the driver and right rear occupant were ejected from the vehicle. The right front occupant remained in the vehicle. Police Reported Travel Speed is 137 kmph for V1.

The driver was an eighteen-year-old female. The driver was not interviewed, however the passenger in the rear seat, as well as the witness provided some information. The witness stated the driver was traveling at a high rate of speed, weaving in and out of traffic. The tread on the right rear tire separated and the driver lost control. The driver was and eighteen year old female and probably had limited experience. The medical reports states tests were positive for methamphetamines.

The pre-event movement for V1 was coded “negotiating a curve.” The critical pre-crash event was coded “this vehicle loss of control due to blowout/ flat tire/ tread separation.” The critical reason was coded “tires/wheels failed.”