The crash occurred on an eight-lane section of east/west median divided interstate. On the eastbound side there are four lanes with lane one (far right) also the beginning of an exit ramp before the gore. The roadway along this portion of roadway was straight and level with a posted speed limit of 89kph (55mph). 2003 traffic counts indicate the eight interstate lanes carry 101,081 vehicles per day. The crash occurred in the early afternoon under rainy and wet conditions with overcast skies. The coefficient of friction for the wet, worn asphalt was estimated at 0.5 by the researcher.

Vehicle #1 was a 1996 Western Star tractor pulling a 53foot refrigeration unit trailer that was empty at the time of the crash. It was traveling in the second eastbound lane on the interstate when, trying to avoid a non-contact vehicle that the driver of Vehicle #1 claimed kept drifting into the second lane from the 3rd lane, Vehicle #1 crossed his right lane line. The tractor-trailer (V1) impacted the back left corner of Vehicle #2, a 1998 Volvo S90, which was eastbound in lane one of the interstate slowing down to exit on the right. The impact pushed Vehicle #2 to start rotating counterclockwise but the driver of the Volvo (V2) steered right and began a clockwise rotation that propelled the car off the right side of the road and into a drainage ditch that had a -3% grade. Vehicle #2 came to rest facing southwest in the ditch off the south side of the road. The Truck (V1) pulled off on the right shoulder another 150 meters ahead. Vehicle #1 was driven from the scene with minimal damage. Vehicle #2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle #1 was driven by a 49-year old belted male who was uninjured. There was no airbag available. The driver stated, “The car on my left kept floating in and out of my lane and crowding me. I didn't see her (V2) there so I figured when I came over (right) to keep from letting that other dummy (non-contact vehicle) run up under me, I bumped her from behind and she spun out.” He also later stated that his “rookie mirror” (right front fender mirror) in combination with his long hood might have obstructed his view of V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was this vehicle traveling: over the lane line on the right side of the travel lane. The Critical Reason for The Critical Precrash Event was recognition error, inadequate surveillance. Some contributing Associated Factors were; Fatigue, the driver of V1 had been awake 14 hours straight since the previous day and had just eaten breakfast, which may have had a drowsing effect on him. An exterior factor was the non-contact vehicle to his left, which seemed to have all of his attention. The driver said he tracked this by using his mirrors and turning his head left and rearward. Rain was another associated factor. Driver experience was not considered a factor since he travels this particular roadway several times each week and has been driving a tractor-trailer for over 30 years.

Vehicle #2 was driven by a 48-year old belted female who was transported to a local hospital with possible injuries. The airbag in Vehicle #2 did not deploy. She stated that she was “in the far right lane slowing down to get off at the exit. The truck (V1) looked like he was trying to get over (to his right) because he kept swerving and swaying. Then he just slammed into me. I started to spin left but I turned the wheel to the right so my car spun off the road into the ditch.”

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #2 was other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane (same direction)- over left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. The only Associated Factor coded to this vehicle was rain.