This three vehicle crash occurred during evening hours at the intersection of a seven lane median divided roadway and a two lane one-way roadway. Traffic at the intersection is controlled by traffic signals that were operating properly. At the time, it was dark, the roadway was lighted and the weather was clear. All the roadways are level and straight. The seven-lane roadway has a speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph), and the intersecting one-way roadway has a speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). At the time of the crash, the roadway was clear of traffic congestion and the sight lines were clear.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Pontiac Bonneville, was eastbound in the third lane approaching the intersection. Vehicle two, (V2), a 1988 Lincoln Town Car, was northbound in the first lane of the one-way roadway approaching the intersection. Vehicle three (V3), a 1992 Cadillac Seville, was westbound in the third lane approaching the intersection. Only the drivers occupied their respective vehicles. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2 approached the intersection and proceeded to make a right turn on red. The driver of V2 made a wide right turn and entered the third eastbound lane, in front of V1. V1 attempted to steer right but the front of V1 struck the rear of V2. V1 continued eastbound crossing the second and first lanes and came to final rest off the roadway 164 meters (538 feet) east of the point of impact on the south side of the roadway. After the initial impact V2 veered left and crossed the raised concrete median and entered the westbound lanes. It crossed the fourth westbound lane and entered the third, where the front of the vehicle struck the front of V3. V2 and V3 came to final rest at the point of impact.

The driver of V1 was a 28-year-old male who drives the route daily and is familiar with the vehicle. He was going home from work. He was attentive to the driving task. He claimed he was traveling approximately 72 kmph (45 mph) as he was approaching the intersection and had a green light. He saw V2 make a wide right turn in front of him and he attempted to steer into lane two in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid the crash. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into same direction. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V2 was a 33-year-old male who was not available for an interview. The driver made a wide right turn in front of V1. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling; over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical event for V2 was coded - driver related factor; misjudgment of gap or other's speed.

The driver of V3 was a 29-year-old male who was not available for an interview. V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.