This two-vehicle crash occurred in the morning on an eastbound three-lane divided highway. At the location of the crash, the roadway had a curve to the right, a 2 percent uphill grade, and a posted speed limit of 80 kmph (50 mph). The conditions were cloudy, dry and daylight.

V1, a 2003 International straight truck, was traveling east in lane 2 approaching an intersection. V2, a 1998 Ford Explorer, was ahead of V1 traveling in the same lane. V2 slowed for a red traffic signal at an intersection and was struck in the rear by the front of V1. The driver of V2 was transported to a local trauma center for minor injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1 and 80 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by 34-year old male who worked as a courier for a major package delivery company. He worked Monday through Friday from 6 am to 6 pm and kept a regular sleep schedule of 11 pm to 5 am each weeknight. He reported to be in good health, have 20/20 vision and claimed not to have any fatigue or emotional-related issues.

For the trip this morning, he was driving east toward his first delivery destination. He claimed that he was “6-7 car lengths” behind the vehicle (V2) in front of him as they both approached an intersection. This driver claimed that V2 suddenly stopped for a green light, which caused him to slam on his brakes. He did not stop in time to avoid a collision and the front of his delivery truck struck the back of V2. This driver was not injured in the crash and after a replacement truck arrived on scene, he went back to work.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded: other vehicle in lane traveling in same direction while decelerating. The Critical Reason for the Pre-crash event was coded: following too closely to respond to unexpected actions. An associated factor coded to this driver was a false assumption, in that he assumed that the other driver would continue to proceed.

V2 was driven by a 45-year old male who reported that as he was driving east on this 2-lane highway, a delivery truck (V1) was tailgating him and trying to run him off the road. When this driver slowed for a red traffic signal, V1 slammed into the back of him. He said the other driver was tailgating him for almost a mile. This interview ended when his wife interrupted the conversation and referred the researcher to the police report.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded: other vehicle in lane traveling with higher speed. The Critical Reason for the Pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors could be coded to this driver due to an incomplete interview.