This two-vehicle crash occurred on a 5-lane not physically divided roadway with a center two-way left turn lane. The roadway runs east and west with an uphill elevation and curves left for westbound traffic. The speed limit for the area is 48 kmph (30 mph). The crash occurred during daylight with no adverse weather or roadway conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Chevrolet Silverado pickup, was westbound in the #1 lane when it's front end contacted the rear end of Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 GMC Safari minivan that was traveling in the same direction. Both vehicles came to rest in the area of impact. After inspection of both vehicles and examining direct damage, it was determined that V2 was not completely stopped at the time of impact. V1 was towed due to damage. V2 was not towed. The passenger of V1 fled the scene before police arrived. The driver and front passenger were reported to have been in use of lap and shoulder safety belts. The 4 juvenile occupants in V2 were reported to have been in use of child restraints. No occupants were injured in either vehicle. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 20-year-old male, was traveling to his residence after spending 20 minutes at a dirt bike trail area 8 kilometers (5 miles) away. He stated he drank 5 beers in the hour prior to the crash and a police BAC test revealed a level of 0.164%. He also stated he was following V2 with 4.6 meters (15 feet) of distance between them when V2 suddenly stopped and he was unable to stop in time to avoid the collision.

The driver of V2, a 40-year-old male, spoke no English. A member of the fire department was able to translate some of driver #2's statements. He stated he was stopping in the travel lane to let a pedestrian cross the road. There was no crosswalk in the area of the crash. He had been traveling for 153 kilometers (95 miles) with his family to visit other family in another town.

The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the critical precrash event was coded to V1 as a driver decision error: following too closely to respond to unexpected actions.

The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical precrash event was not coded to this vehicle.