This two vehicle crash occurred mid-morning during daylight hours at a on-colors controlled intersection. Road surface dry, level concrete with five lanes north/south and two lanes east/west. Posted speed limit 56 kph (35 mph).

Vehicle one (V1) a 1996 white Chevrolet Lumina van driven by 31 year-old female with five passengers was traveling east in lane one. Vehicle two (V2) a 1996 green Mercury Sable 4-door sedan driven by a 45 year-old female was traveling north in the second lane. As V1 approached the intersection and stopped for the red light the driver of was talking to the passenger in the right front seat as they waited for the light to change. When the light changed, V1 accelerated forward between 5-10 mph. The passenger saw that V 2 was not going to stop at the red light and tried to warn the driver. V1 was struck on the front bumper and rotated counterclockwise to end up facing northwest in the middle of the intersection. V 2 had just decreased her speed to 48 kph (30 mph). due to a change in the speed limit on the roadway. The driver of V 2 was thinking about getting to school early, when all of a sudden it was struck on the left side by the front of V 1. V 2 rotated counterclockwise and struck a traffic signal on the northeast corner coming to final rest facing northwest. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The pre-event movement for V1 coded accelerating in traffic lane, category other vehicle encroachment from crossing street. Critical reason for the critical event not coded to this vehicle.

The pre-event movement for V2 coded going straight, category this vehicle traveling crossing over passing through intersection. Critical reason for the critical event driver related factor "inattention/daydreaming".

Associative factors, The driver of V1 was involved in a conversation with the right front passenger, and failed to properly survey the oncoming traffic at the intersection, even though the vehicle had the right-of-way. The driver of V 2 was preoccupied with the thought of being able to get to school early and get some lab time before class.