A two-vehicle crash occurred in the intersection of a five-lane, divided (without positive barrier), westbound roadway and a four-lane, divided (without positive barrier), southbound roadway. This intersection is a tri-light controlled intersection that is also an interchange area. The southbound lanes are extended on/off ramp lanes. The westbound lanes are level and curve left. The southbound lanes are straight and level. This crash occurred in the evening hours. The roadway was dark but lighted and had a speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph) for both directions.

Vehicle one (V1) is a dark green 2005 Chevrolet Impala four-door sedan; vehicle two (V2) is a white 2001 Chrysler Sebring four-door sedan. V1 was traveling southbound in the second lane approaching the tri-light controlled intersection. V1's driver was intending on turning left at the intersection. V2 was traveling westbound in the second through lane approaching the same intersection. V2's driver was intending on traveling straight through the intersection. After both vehicles entered the intersection, V1's left side was impacted by V2s front. V2 rotated counterclockwise and came to a final rest in the intersection facing north. V1 came to a final rest on the west side of the intersection in the farthest southbound lane facing west. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage. The drivers were the only occupants or their respective vehicles and neither driver was transported from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 39-year-old male. He stated that he had come from a party and had a flat tire to the right rear of his vehicle previous to this crash. He changed the tire and put a donut spare tire on the vehicle. He was looking for a gas station to get the tire fixed when this crash occurred. He also stated that as he approached the intersection that a white van sideswiped his vehicle in the intersection and then fled the scene. This researcher documented scratching down the right side of V1, its flow was from front to rear so it was most likely caused by this driver moving forward along side another vehicle or object. Driver of V1 further stated that after he was sideswiped he came to a complete stop in the intersection when he was struck by V2. The researcher and the police discounted this statement as not being feasible. The damage to the left side of V1 indicates it was moving forward at the time of this crash. It may further be noted that the driver of V1 was arrested at the scene with a BAC of 0.09. The officers on scene seemed to think that this driver had a previous incident prior to this one where he may have sideswiped a barrier wall. It is surmised by the physical evidence to the vehicle that there was not a third vehicle involved in this crash and the right side damage was produced as the police had reasoned in a prior incident. That prior right-side damage may even be related to the right rear flat tire the driver had prior to this collision.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: illegal Maneuver. The driver indicated he had worked 55 hours in the past 7-days, but had been recently fired from his job, so he no longer had any employer relations. He was most likely let go from his job on the day of the crash because he stated he had worked the past two days. This driver was highly agitated at the crash scene and expressed anger and frustration. Between his emotional state and ignoring traffic control devices, he was considered to be driving in an aggressive manner by the researcher. He stated he rarely travels on this roadway. The conclusion by the researcher was that the driver of V1 did enter the intersection on a red light. While on scene this could not be disputed by officers or any witnesses that may have previously been on scene.

The driver of V2 was a 42-year-old female. Unfortunately, this driver was not contacted for an interview so all information regarding this driver was obtained from the police report. Indications are that she traveled into the intersection on a green light when the driver of V1 crossed her path. Based on the final rest position of her vehicle it was reasoned that she was able to steer right just before the impact occurred.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical event was not assigned to this driver.