The crash occurred in the westbound lane of a two lane undivided roadway with a posted speed limit of 55 MPH (89 KPH). The roadway was curved to the right with a radius of curvature of 321.4 meters, a superelevation of 4.7% and a -4.6% grade. There was a black on yellow warning sign prior to the curve, but gave no suggested speed. The weather was clear, the roadway dry and it was daylight at the time of this weekday morning crash.

Vehicle #1, a 1997 Jeep Grand Cherokee, was traveling west on the two lane undivided roadway negotiating the curve to the right on a downgrade. Vehicle #2, a 1997 Peterbilt 379 CBE towing a low boy semi-trailer, was traveling west on the same roadway ahead of Vehicle #1 and turning left into a driveway. Vehicle #2 was partially into the driveway and the trailer was across both east and westbound lanes. Vehicle #1 attempted to avoid Vehicle #2 by braking and steering left. Vehicle #1 went off the left side of the roadway, up a small snow embankment and rolled over to the right one-quarter turn. Vehicle #1 continued a short distance and struck the left side of the tractor-trailer with its top. Vehicle #1 came to rest on its right side facing in a southwesterly direction. Vehicle #2 was pushed slightly clockwise and came to rest facing in a southwesterly direction. Police did not consider either alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no tests. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Jeep Cherokee (Vehicle #1) was driven by a belted 29-year-old male who was transported, treated and released at a local hospital for a complaint of pain. The belted 29-year-old female right front passenger was airlifted to a trauma center with a complaint of pain. No interview was obtained from the driver. Statements and information obtained at the scene from the police indicated that the driver and passenger had been arguing prior to the crash. It should be noted that the previous day they had had their engagement party. The driver stated that he had failed to observe the tractor-trailer turning and attempted to avoid it. Vehicle #1 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as internal distraction, a recognition error. This was chosen because the driver was arguing with the passenger prior to the crash and failed to observe Vehicle #2 turning left. An associated factor coded to this driver was the use of prescription medications. He was taking three medications, (a) an antidepressant, with possible side effects of seizures and agitation, (b) an anticonvulsive and antimanic, with possible side effects of aggression and emotional upset and (c) a benzodiazepine tranquilizer with possible side effects of sleepiness and inability to concentrate. It should be noted that the driver stated to EMS personnel that he had possibly blacked out and had just taken two 0.5 mg of the tranquilizer 10 minutes prior to the crash.

No Critical Precrash Event and no Critical Reason were coded to the driver of the Peterbilt (Vehicle #2) because he was not involved in the first harmful event. The driver was not fatigued, was wearing prescription sunglasses to correct a nearsighted condition and had just found his destination after being lost. He was comfortable with his vehicle.

He was taking prescription and non-prescription medications. The two prescription medications were (a) a gout medication and (b) a high blood pressure medication. The over the counter medication was (c) a general anti-inflammatory. No other factors were coded to this driver.