The crash occurred on an east / west interstate with five eastbound lanes divided from the westbound side by a concrete wall. The road was straight with paved shoulders; the right lane was an exit only lane. The roadway at 100 meters pre-crash had a positive 4% grade. At the run off the road point the grade had lessened to positive 3%. A ditch ran parallel to the interstate on the right side of the eastbound lanes. The ditch was approximately five meters south of the paved shoulder of the interstate with a side slope of minus 16% at rollover initiation. The posted speed limit was 89 KPH / 55 MPH. Conditions were overcast and raining at midmorning on a weekday. Traffic would have been beginning to slowdown on this point on the roadway for highway construction one mile east of the crash scene.

Vehicle #1, a 1992 GMC Jimmy, was eastbound in the second from the right interstate lane when it lost traction and began to rotate counterclockwise. It departed the right side of the interstate and into the drainage ditch where its wheels tripped on the rocks. Vehicle #1 rolled four quarter turns to its right about its longitudinal axis, coming to rest upright on its wheels facing due north about twenty meters east of its trip point. Vehicle 1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

Vehicle 1 was driven by a 64-year old unrestrained female who was transported to a local trauma center with possible injuries.

The critical pre-crash event for Vehicle 1 was, this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was a decision error too fast for conditions, reason unknown. Associated factors included in a hurry. Given the timeline including the location and time of the crash and the fact that the driver was headed to traffic court, which started 15 minutes after the crash, she was probably not going to get there in time for its start. A performance error, poor directional control was also coded. A vehicle related factor was included since the maximum tread depth measurement was 3 millimeters. Rain and wet roads were also coded. Construction work zone was coded as a traffic interruption factor although it is not known to have contributed to the crash. The driver was taking six different medications including one for depression.