This two-vehicle crash occurred during daylight hours in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The north/south roadway is straight, level and divided with the northbound lanes consisting of two through lanes and two left turn lanes. The speed limit on this roadway is 64 kmph (40 mph). The east/west roadway is an off-ramp that is one-way and is straight, downhill and consists of three lanes; one right turn lane, one straight and left turn lane and one left turn only lane. The speed limit on the ramp is 105 kmph (65 mph) but the advisory is 72 kmph (45 mph). The speed limit on this roadway is 64 kmph (40 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Acura CL, was northbound in lane two going straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Chevrolet Express was westbound on the ramp, starting in traffic and turning left. In the intersection, the front of V1 impacted with the left side of V2. V1 rotated slightly counterclockwise and came to rest facing north/northwest in the middle of the intersection. V2 rotated slightly clockwise and came to rest facing west/northwest in the middle of the intersection. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-year-old female, was driving from a friend's house to her own home. She was traveling a familiar route in a vehicle that she had been driving for several years. She was well rested and had only been up for approximately one-half hour. She was attempting to change lanes to the right and was looking for traffic in the right lane prior to moving into that lane. When she glanced back up, the traffic signal was yellow and she accelerated to clear the intersection before the light turned red.

The driver of V2, a fifty-three-year-old male, was driving between work locations. He traveled this route often and was comfortable with his vehicle. He woke up feeling drowsy, but this was not a factor in the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: external distraction. Inadequate surveillance was an associative factor.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.