This two-vehicle crash occurred on a straight, level, two-lane, dry, bituminous roadway that runs east to west. The speed limit on this roadway is 89 kmph (55 mph). This roadway is designed for two-way traffic and has no median, nor a positive barrier. This roadway intersects with a one-lane, dry, bituminous, uphill, interstate exit ramp. The exit ramp runs north with a curve to the left. The intersection is controlled by a stop sign and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Ford Expedition was traveling north in lane one of the interstate exit ramp. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Dodge Ram 1500 truck was traveling westbound in lane one at 72 kmph (45 mph). There was a non-contact vehicle making a right turn in front of V1. There was also a Heavy/Medium truck stopped on the right shoulder of the exit ramp whose driver witnessed the collision. V1 proceeded through the intersection and was impacted on its right side by the front plane of V2. V1 rotated and departed the northwest corner where its wheels dug in and the vehicle rolled over two quarter turns coming to rest on its roof. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-six year old male was returning to his girl friends house after running some errands. This driver was having a conversation with his passenger (girlfriend). The nature of this conversation was about the vehicle ahead of V1 that was turning right. This driver was saying that he wanted the other vehicle to hurry up and turn. This driver indicated that he never saw V2. This driver failed to look. This driver also failed to stop for the stop sign and entered the intersection. The large truck, also the witness, was stopped far enough back to not block the intersection from the stop sign. There is no known sleep data for this driver but fatigue is not considered a factor for this driver. This driver had just bought this vehicle two days prior and drives on this road daily.

The driver of V2, a thirty-five year old male, was driving from one field service call to another call. This driver had been driving for about ten minutes at the time of the crash. There is no known sleep data but fatigue was not considered a factor for this driver. This driver drives this vehicle daily and only rarely on this roadway.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over [passing through] intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.