This two-vehicle crash occurred late in the afternoon during daylight hours at the intersection of two multiple lane asphalt roadways. This intersection is controlled with traffic lights. The east-west roadway consists of 6 lanes and is divided with a raised curb divider. The north-south roadway has 3 lanes and is also divided with a raised curb divider. The east-bound and north-bound roadways are straight and on uphill grades. The speed limit for the eastbound traffic is 64 kmph (40 mph) and 40 kmph (25 mph) for northbound traffic. The crash occurred during a high-congested time of day with no adverse weather or road conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1988 Chevrolet Celebrity 4-door sedan, was driven by a 33 year-old female with three passenger who were traveling eastbound in the #1 lane traveling through the intersection when its front plane contacted the left side of Vehicle two (V2). V2 was a 1998 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan driven by a 22 year-old male V2 had been traveling north slowly rolling forward in the left-turn lane waiting for oncoming traffic to pass before turning left (west). After impact V1 rotated counter-clockwise and came to rest in the intersection facing northeast. V2 rotated counter-clockwise and continued west before stopping on the right side of the westbound roadway west of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 33-year-old female, had just picked up her 2-year-old daughter from the babysitter and was traveling to the drug store to have a prescription filled for her child. Her job involves being on-call 2 days a week and she was thinking about the possibility of having to travel out of town that evening for her job. She also was concerned with the health of her child and pending child custody issues. She also described her vehicle as an "old clunker" and was only somewhat comfortable with its condition. She takes a medication for high cholesterol, one for combination of migraines and depression, a narcotic pain reliever and a skeletal muscle relaxant. She stated that the traffic light must have been green or she would not have kept going although she wasn't positive.

The driver of V2, a 22-year-old male, was traveling from a store to his residence with 3 other occupants. He stated that he had been stopped at the red light and slowly proceeded forward when the light turned green, yielding for oncoming traffic before turning left. He stated that a non-contact truck, which he was yielding for, had to swerve in order to avoid contact with V1. The driver of V2 works the late shift but was on his days off and had slept 13 hours the night before.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason was attributed to V1 as a driver related factor: inattention (i.e., daydreaming).

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.