V1, a 2004 Buick Rainier sport utility vehicle, was traveling northbound on a four lane, two-way, undivided dry asphalt roadway in daylight conditions. V1 was attempting to turn left at a 4-way intersection. V2, a 2003 Chevrolet Silverado pickup, was traveling southbound in the first lane of travel on the same roadway intending to go straight. There were no traffic control devices present for either V1 or V2, and the posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 MPH). A non-contact truck that was stopped in the second southbound lane, waiting to turn left at the intersection, blocked V1's view. V1 turned left and its front contacted the front of V2. V1 came to final rest on the roadway. V2 departed the roadway to the left. V2's front then contacted a fence before coming to final rest.

The driver of V1 was a 47-year old female who reported that she was traveling between 2-16 kmph (1-10 MPH) prior to the crash. She had no health-related problems and had taken no medication prior to the crash. She was rested and traveling to a hardware store. She was wearing her prescribed lenses that corrected a hyperopic (far-sighted) condition. She was uninjured in the crash and refused treatment. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V1 was when she began to turn left at the intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a recognition error, inadequate surveillance (failed to look, looked but did not see). An associated factor was that the driver of V1 could not see the oncoming vehicle because another vehicle was blocking her view.

The driver of V2 was a 52-year old male who reported that he had been traveling between 34-48 kmph (21-30 MPH) prior to the crash. He had no health-related problems and had taken no medication prior to the crash. He was rested and traveling to work. He does not wear corrective lenses. He sustained minor injuries but refused treatment.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V2 was other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction-over left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to the driver of V2. One associated factor coded to the driver of V2 was a false assumption of other road user's actions - he reported that he saw V1 stopped at the intersection prior to the crash but thought that its driver would wait for him to pass before beginning the left turn.