The crash area is a junction of two interstate highways, where the east/west roadway merges to the northbound leg of the north/south roadway. The eastbound collector lane is straight, and the westbound ramp curves right, to combine briefly as one two-lane road, before the right lane ends and the road then merges with the northbound highway. Both the ramp and the collector lane are one-way. The crash occurred at the point where the ramp combines with the collector as a two-lane road, with a paved right shoulder without rumble strips, and a concrete barrier wall on the left dividing the collector road from the main north/south highway. At the time of the crash it was a cold, clear weekday evening, and the dark and unlit, bituminous roadway was level and dry. The posted speed limit on the highway is 105km/h (65mph) with no other posted speed signs for the ramp or the collector lane. Advisory merge signs are posted at the entrance to the ramp, indicating that the right lane will merge to the left.

Vehicle 1, a 1995 Ford Club Wagon, driven by a 50 year-old male, was eastbound on the highway and had exited the ramp on a left hand curve and was traveling straight on the collector lane to the northbound highway. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 1996 Mercury Sable, driven by a 23year-old female, was westbound on the highway and had exited and was traveling on the right hand curve on the ramp to the northbound highway. V1 reached the combined 2-lane collector ahead of V2, but V2 was traveling at a higher rate of speed. As V2 moved into the straight portion of the road where it merged with the collector lane from the eastbound ramp, V2 lost control and left the roadway on the right. V2 rotated counterclockwise and returned to the roadway where the right front of V2 struck the right back of V1.

V2 continued across the traffic lane and the front of V2 struck the concrete barrier wall on the left and continued to rotate counterclockwise striking the wall again with the left back. V2 continued to rotate until it came to final rest facing southeast in the right hand lane. V2 was towed from the scene due to damage. The driver of V2 was transported to a local trauma center due to injuries.

V1 spun off to the right following the impact with V2. V1 rotated clockwise and continued in lane one in a lateral yaw with the left side leading. The lower left side of V1 contacted the leading edge of a metal guardrail on the right shoulder. V1 became airborne, striking the guardrail with the left driver's greenhouse area. V1 rolled over 4 quarter turns with the left side leading contacting the ground and came to rest on it's wheels facing southeast.

The unbelted driver of V1 was ejected from the vehicle. The front left, front right, and back left windows were all broken out during the crash, and the upper portion of the windshield was separated. All of the doors of V1 remained closed. V1 came to rest against a tree (app. 30cm in diameter), causing damage to the upper left passenger area. V1 sustained moderate intrusion to the driver's area and was towed from the scene due to damage. The driver of V1 was treated with life support at the scene and transported to a local trauma center where he was pronounced dead.

A witness to the crash was traveling on the eastbound highway and had exited and was traveling on the collector lane to the northbound highway. The witness observed V2 out of her right peripheral vision, seeming to be traveling too fast to safely negotiate the ramp to the collector lane without striking the concrete barrier wall. The witness observed v1 ahead of V2 traveling at a lower rate of speed. The witness did not observe any braking or steering/swerving precrash by V1. The witness vehicle braked and came to rest one foot away from V2 at final rest, which was facing backwards in the right hand lane. The witness also stated that the pavement was dry, and there was no precipitation at the time of the crash, although it began to rain/snow shortly thereafter.

The Critical Precrash Event coded for V1 was 'other motor vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane-same direction over the right lane line'. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. It is unknown whether there were any Contributing or Associated Factors for this driver. He was familiar both with his vehicle and with the roadway, and had been driving for 34 years. There did not appear to be any vehicle related defects at the time of inspection. The driver was alone in the vehicle, driving his regular commute home after work. The police did not indicate any alcohol or drug use, but the medical examiner's report is pending.

The Critical Precrash Event coded for V2 was “this vehicle loss of control due to traveling too fast for conditions” on the curved ramp. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was “too fast for curve.” V2 lost control at the end of the curved ramp causing her to leave the roadway on the right. The driver of V2 most likely corrected the vehicle to the left resulting in the counterclockwise yaw. V2 then re-entered the roadway and struck V1. It is unknown what the Contributing or Associated Factors for the driver of V2 might have been. She was driving her own vehicle, on a local highway route near her home. The driver has a medical history of rubber band surgery for frequent shoulder dislocations. The driver indicated that she drinks alcohol socially and denies illicit drug use. The driver lists only birth control pills for prescription medication. The police accident report indicates that the driver holds a valid driver's license. Although the report listed a Hazardous Action of “Careless/Negligent Driving” there were no citations issued in the crash.