The crash occurred during early morning hours involving one passenger car driving on an up hill-curved roadway. The speed limit for the roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). The road is a 5-lane undivided two-way curved roadway. The road surface concrete dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1) is a 1988 Oldsmobile Delta, that was traveling north in an unknown lane. The driver fell asleep and the vehicle departed off the road to it's left. The front of the vehicle impacted with a metal post located in the entrance road of a business parking lot west of the roadway. The vehicle slightly rotated clockwise around the pole. It came to rest at the pole. The vehicle was towed from the scene. The driver was not injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver was a 63-year old male who claimed to be in good health, and stated he fell to sleep despite an unusual long sleep prior to the crash. He possesses a valid drivers license with no restrictions or endorsements. He claimed to be not in a hurry, not conversing and attentive to the driving task. He does not take any medication. There was no indication of alcohol or drug involvement. He claimed he slept for 11 hours the night before the crash. It was an unusual long sleep for him, since his regular hours of sleep reach an average of 8 hours per night. He drives the route rarely, yet seemed to be familiar with the area. The driver is retired and lives in a homeless shelter about 8 kilometers (5 miles) from the crash site. He mixed up the day of the crash (Monday instead of Tuesday) and the time. He stated he left a motel located 1.6 kilometers (1 mile) from the crash site early in the morning. He was on his way to a repair shop located at an intersection 1.6 kilometers (1 mile) north of the crash site.

The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: sleeping, that is, actually asleep.