A crash occurred just before noon involving two passenger cars at an intersection with traffic lights. The speed limit for the roadway is 64 kmph (40 mph). The road is a 3-lane divided (no positive barrier) concrete roadway for both vehicles. The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Ford Mustang driven by a 16 year-old male with one passenger, was traveling south attempting a left turn from the third lane of traffic at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Oldsmobile Alero driven by a 17 year-old female, was traveling north in the first lane. At the intersection, the front of V1 impacted with the front of V2. V2 rotated clockwise and moved to the northeast corner of the intersection. It came to rest in the northeast corner, facing northeast. V1 rotated counter clockwise after the impact, and traveled north. The driver pulled the vehicle into the entry of a business parking lot, where it became disabled. At the final rest the vehicle was facing east. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Both drivers and the right front occupant of V2 were transported to local medical facility. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: type of driver error unknown. This vehicle had a protected left turn arrow at the intersection. The driver might have had a limited view of V2 due to a vehicle stopped in the left turn lane of the northbound lanes. At the time of the crash the light was green for the southbound traffic before the protected left turn arrow turned green. The driver of V1 and his occupant could not be reached for an interview. The R/F occupant only stated the driver of V1 was heading for a gas station. Gas stations are located on both eastern corners of the intersection. After the collision, V1 tried to drive away from the scene but became disabled after a few meters/feet.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction, over left lane line. No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle although the driver did not stop for the changing traffic light. The line of sight might have been limited for this driver as well. A vehicle stopped in the left turn lane limited her vision of V2. The driver did not directly say that during the interview, but stated she did not see V1 until it was right in front of her.