The crash occurred in an intersection controlled by an on colors traffic signal, in the afternoon on a clear, dry weekday. V1, a 1992 Chevrolet Lumina, was southbound on a two-way, four-lane, straight, level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 56kmh (35mph). V1 was traveling in the left lane approaching three non-contact vehicles stopped to make a left turn at the intersecting road. V1 changed lanes to the right curb lane and proceeded through the intersection although the signal was amber prior to v1 entering the intersection.

V2, a 1994 Saturn SL, was northbound on the same road and had stopped on the green light at the intersection for 3-5 seconds, waiting to turn left. V2, driven by 24 year-old female, accelerated from the stop and proceeded to turn left. The front of v1, driven by a 47 year-old female, struck the right side of V2 in the intersection. Neither driver had time for avoidance actions. V1 came to rest facing south in the southbound curb lane at the southwest corner. V2 came to final rest facing northeast in the eastbound curb lane just west of the intersection. V1 was driven from the scene. V2 was towed from the scene due to damage. Both fully restrained drivers were transported from the scene to a local trauma center where they were treated and released. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Critical Precrash Event coded for V1 was Other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction - over left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded Critical event not coded to this vehicle. A Contributing Factor coded to this driver was 'other recognition factor of impending problem masked by traffic flow pattern.' The non-contact vehicles, coded as a 'sight line restriction,' in the southbound left lane prevented Driver1 from seeing V2 pulling out from her northbound left lane until she was already in her path of travel. Another Contributing factor coded was fatigue, as she stated that she wakes up frequently during the night and never gets a good night of sleep. She reported that she wakes up fatigued every day and felt fatigued at the beginning of the driving trip prior to the crash.

Associated Factors coded for this driver include health conditions of recurring back problems and asthma, which were not felt to have contributed to the crash. Prescribed medications are two bronchodilators with possible side effects of dizziness, heart palpitations, shakiness and tremors. Over the counter extra strength pain reliever was also taken which has almost no side effects. The driver was wearing her corrective lenses to correct a myopic condition. The driver is properly licensed and a Hazardous Action of 'negligent/careless driving' was noted on the PAR, although no citation was given. The driver was familiar both with her vehicle and with the roadway. The vehicle was not found to have any mechanical defects at the time of inspection.

The Critical Precrash Event coded for the driver of V2 was This vehicle turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded False assumption of other road user's actions. The primary associated factor coded for this driver was False assumption of other road user's actions. A second associated health factor coded for this driver was pregnancy, as she was in her 20th week of gestation. The driver had no other health conditions, was well rested, and reported no emotional or stress concerns. She had a valid driver's license and was familiar both with her vehicle and with the roadway. There were no vehicle defects found during the vehicle inspection. Police did not consider alcohol or illegal drugs to be a factor for either driver and ordered no tests.