This rear-end type two-vehicle crash occurred on a Sunday in the evening hours on a six-lane, divided roadway without positive barrier. This roadway is bituminous asphalt and is straight and level. This section of the roadway runs east and west. The crash occurred in the westbound lanes. Dashed lane lines separate the three westbound lanes. The crash occurred prior to a crossover area. The roadway was dry with no adverse weather conditions however; there was sun glare present. The speed limit for this section of the roadway is 72 kph (45 mph).

Vehicle one (V1) is a 1996 Chevrolet Corsica four-door sedan. Vehicle two (V2) is a 1994 Pontiac Grand Am two door coupe. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was traveling westbound in the third lane. V2 was also traveling westbound in the second lane. V2 changed lanes to the third lane in front of V1. The front of V1 struck the back left of V2. The impact caused V2 to rotate counterclockwise into the median crossover where it came to final rest facing south. Vehicle one came to a controlled final rest in the third lane still facing west. Both vehicles were towed from the scene.

The driver of V1 was a 20-year-old female who was not available for an interview. She was transported to a local hospital where she was treated and released. The pre-event movement for V1 was coded "going straight." The critical pre-crash event was coded "other motor vehicle in lane-traveling in same direction while decelerating." The critical reason was coded "type of driver error unknown." It is unknown when V2 encroached into the lane in which V1 was traveling. Sun glare was possibly a contributing factor.

The driver of V2 was an 18-year-old male who was not available for an interview. There was a 19-year-old male passenger in the rear seat. This driver changed lane in front of V1. It is unknown if the driver was going to turn left at the upcoming crossover. The critical pre-crash event was coded "other motor vehicle in lane-traveling in same direction with higher speed." The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.