This two-vehicle crash occurred in the evening during a weekday at a four-way intersection. There was evening light and no adverse weather conditions. This 2-lane undivided roadway runs east and west and has a left-turn lane at the intersection for both directions. The intersection was at the top of a hill. The eastbound traffic had a separate left hand turn signal. The posted speed limit on the road is 72 kmph (45 mph).

Vehicle 1, a 1997 Ford Crown Victoria, was traveling east as he stopped in the left-turn lane at the intersection for a red signal. V2, a 1994 Saturn SC2, was traveling west negotiating a curve right approaching the same intersection. Once the traffic signal turned green, V1 began to make a left turn. At the same time, V2 entered the intersection and collided head-on with V1. Following the collision, both vehicles came to final rest in the intersection and both were towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.

Vehicle 1 was equipped with driver and passenger airbags that both deployed because of the crash. There were two occupants in the car and the right front passenger was transported for minor injuries. Vehicle 2 was equipped with a driver airbag that deployed because of the crash. The sole occupant of V2, its driver, was transported for minor injuries.

The driver of V1 was an 80-year-old male that was returning home with his wife from dinner at a restaurant. He reported that he thought the left-turn arrow turned green so he proceeded to enter the intersection. He also claimed there were vehicles parked in gas station, at the northeast corner of the intersection, which obstructed his view of oncoming traffic.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle turning left at intersection and the Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was coded inadequate surveillance.

The driver of V2 was a 17-year-old female with a Graduated Driver License that limits her from driving after 9 pm. She reports she was driving toward the intersection and noticed a vehicle turn left in front of her so she took her foot off the accelerator. As she entered the intersection, a second vehicle turned left in front of her. She tried to steer left and brake but she could not avoid the collision.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroached from opposite direction-over left line and the Critical Reason was not coded for this vehicle. She was taking medication for allergies that had possible side effects of drowsiness and fatigue. She was also taking a medication for depression, which had possible side effects of drowsiness, tiredness, weakness, and dizziness.

Note: after reviewing the pictures it was determined that the vehicles parked in the gas station lot did not obstruct the view of the westbound traffic.