This is a two-vehicle crash that occurred late in the afternoon during daylight hours at a four-way intersection. The intersection is controlled by a traffic light on-colors that was functioning properly at the time of the crash. The intersection has a north/south roadway that has one southbound and one northbound lane. There is a center left turn lane for both directions of travel on each side of the intersection. The speed limit on this roadway is roadway is posted 40 kmph (25 mph) There is also an east/west roadway that has two westbound and two eastbound lanes that are separated by a continuous left turn lane. The speed limit on this roadway is posted 56 kmph (35 mph). There were two vehicle stopped at the west side of the intersection for the traffic light that restricted the line of sight for the drivers of both vehicles involved. The weather at the time of the crash was clear.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Ford F-150 4X4 pickup, was traveling eastbound in the #1 lane at approximately 56 kmph (35 mph) approaching the intersection. The traffic light was red. The driver of V1, a 61-year old female, stated that she was daydreaming and does not remember seeing the traffic light or cars stopped at the intersection. The vehicle traveled through the intersection on a red light and was struck on the left side by the front of vehicle two (V2). The impact caused the vehicle to rotate counterclockwise and travel in an easterly direction through the intersection. V1 came to rest in the #1 and #2 lanes to the east of the intersection facing in a southwesterly direction. The vehicle was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

V2, a 2001 Ford F-150 4X2 pickup, was traveling southbound in the #1 lane approaching the intersection. Approximately 2 blocks prior to the intersection, the driver, a 41 year old male, was talking to the right front passenger (wife) about the upcoming holidays and shopping. The driver was not talking to the right front passenger as he approached the intersection and was looking to his right at cars stopped in the eastbound left turn lane and the #2 lane. V2 entered the intersection on a green light and the driver saw V1 travel across the path of his vehicle. The driver steered his vehicle to the left as an unsuccessful avoidance maneuver. The front of V2 struck the left rear section of V1. The impact caused V2 to rotate counterclockwise. The vehicle came to rest at the southwest corner of the intersection facing in a southeasterly direction. The vehicle was towed due to damage.

The critical pre crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection . The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inattention (i.e., daydreaming) . The driver of V1 was daydreaming at the start of the crash sequence and could not remember what she was thinking about.

The critical pre crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path . The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.