The crash occurred in the far left eastbound lane and left shoulder of an east/west divided interstate. Eastbound there were five travel lanes and a sixth lane functioning as an on ramp that terminates 20 meters past point of impact. The interstate highway has a 3 meter wide left shoulder bordered by a concrete divider wall. The roadway was straight with a -2% grade at precrash location of 40 meters west of point of impact and -2% grade at point of impact/Final Rest. The crash occurred in the morning rush hour under rainy and wet conditions. There was a posted speed limit of 55mph (89kph).

Vehicle #1 was a 1993 Ford Ranger (RWD) traveling eastbound in the far left lane. Vehicle #2 was a 2000 Honda Accord also traveling eastbound in the far left lane in front of the Ranger (V1). Vehicle #2 was decelerating for rush hour congestion ahead. Vehicle #1 was still traveling at or around the speed limit when other traffic began to slow down (per driver V1 statement). The driver of V2 looked in his rearview mirror and saw V1 approaching at a "high rate of speed and knew he (V1) wouldn't be able to stop in time" so while still decelerating the driver of V2 maneuvered partially onto the left shoulder in an attempt to avoid a collision and to give V1 room to stop. The driver of V1 also realizing traffic was slowing significantly swerved left to avoid traffic and struck V2 in the back end with the front of his vehicle. Both vehicles were partially on the left shoulder at point of impact. Both vehicles came to rest less than 2 meters from point of impact still together from impact and both facing eastbound. Vehicle #2 was towed due to damage and Vehicle #1 was driven from the scene. Neither vehicle had any airbag deployment. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Ranger (V1) was driven by a 30-year old belted male who was uninjured. He stated that he was on his way to a job site out of state and had already driven approximately 50 miles when the crash occurred. The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was Other Motor Vehicle in Lane Traveling in Same Direction While Decelerating. The Critical Reason For the Critical Precrash Event was Recognition Error, Internal Distraction because the driver of V1 stated that "I looked down to get my coffee and when I looked up every one was stopping". The driver of V1 may have been fatigued since he got up at 3AM and had been up for over 4 1/2 hours already at the time of the crash. He said he usually gets 8 hours of sleep but only got 6 the night before. The driver of V1 stated that he does not take any medications or drugs but the researcher observed an open, half empty package of an over the counter stimulant in the drivers side door panel of the vehicle during the inspection. The driver was exhibiting nervous behavior. Another factor was inadequate surveillance as the driver of (V1) failed to look far enough ahead to see traffic slowing. Rain and congestion due to rush hour are both environmental factors that contributed. A potential Vehicle Related Factor is that the left front tire was smaller than the other three and had only 3mm of tread on it.

The driver of the Accord (V2) was a 33-year old belted male who was uninjured. The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #2 was Other Motor Vehicle in Lane Traveling at a Higher Rate of Speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. Both rain and congestion were factors for this vehicle. The driver of this vehicle was not thought to have contributed to the crash.