The crash occurred on a two way, two lane east / west residential arterial road. There was also a crossing two way, two lane residential road that ran north /south. The north/south road was controlled with stop signs in either direction. There were no controls on the residential arterial road. The arterial road had double solid no passing stripes, was straight, level and had a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). The crossing residential street also had a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). There was a slight downgrade on the westbound approach to the intersection, though the road leveled off in crossing the arterial road. Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight and dry and it was early afternoon on a weekday.

Vehicle 1, a 1993 Ford F700 dump truck was southbound on the residential street approaching the intersection with the arterial road. Vehicle 2, a 1988 GMC Jimmy was eastbound on the arterial road. Vehicle 1 crossed the arterial roadway and Vehicle 2 struck V1 on the right side impacting the dump truck's tandems with it's (V2's) front. Vehicle 1 then completed crossing the intersection and pulled to the right curb and stopped. Vehicle 2 came to rest at point of impact. Vehicle 1 sustained very little damage and was driven from the scene. Vehicle 2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle 1 was driven by a 22 year old, belted male who was uninjured in the crash. The drivers' interview was considered to not be very credible as it was given with the owner of the dump truck (the drivers' boss) standing between the interviewee and the researcher for the duration of the interview.

The Critical Pre Crash Event for Vehicle 1 was: This Vehicle Traveling, Crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre Crash Event was a Decision Error: Misjudgment of Gap or Others speed. This was chosen because the researcher found the driver of V2's statement to be more credible as to the order of events in the crash and believes that the driver of V1 just thought that he could make it. The associated contributing factor coded to this vehicle was a driver decision factor proceeded with insufficient clearance. The driver was charged with driving without a license.

Vehicle 2 was driven by a 21 year old belted male who was also uninjured in the crash. The other occupant of this vehicle (his mom) was also uninjured and belted.

The Critical Pre Crash Event for Vehicle 2 was Other Vehicle Encroachment from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. A contributing associated factor was that the driver was conversing with his right front passenger which distracted him enough to look at her instead of having his attention on the roadway. Another factor coded was false assumption because as he said in his interview that the driver of the dump truck was stopped at the stop sign and then just pulled out. No other associated factors coded to this vehicle.