V1, a 2002 Chevy Malibu, was traveling southbound on a 4-lane, two-way, icy asphalt roadway on a downhill grade. V1 was traveling in the second lane of travel. The driver of V1 stated he thought he might be traveling too fast for conditions. He tapped his brakes and started to fishtail, rotating in a counterclockwise direction into the oncoming lanes of travel. V3, a 1999 Sterling tractor-trailer, was traveling on the same roadway traveling northbound, in the first lane of travel. The driver of V3 stated that when he saw V1 begin to enter the northbound lanes, he tried to get as far over in his lane as possible but could not avoid contacting the right front side of V1. V3 then departed roadway on the east side and contacted a fire hydrant, a telephone pole and a tree before coming to final rest. After striking V3, V1 rotated back into the second southbound lane of travel, where V2, a 2001 Dodge Ram, was traveling southbound. The front of V2 contacted the right side of V1. Both V1 and V2 came to final rest on the roadway.

The driver of V1 was a 27-year old male who reported that he had been traveling between 50-64 kmph (31-40 mph) prior to the crash. He had no health related problems, and had taken no medication prior to the crash. He was rested and traveling to work. He was wearing his prescribed lenses that corrected a myopic (nearsighted) condition. He sustained some minor injuries during the crash but refused to be transported to the hospital. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V1 was when he lost control of his vehicle due to his traveling too fast for conditions. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as "too fast for conditions." The driver of V1 reported that as he began traveling down the grade of the roadway, he thought he was going too fast and tried to compensate by tapping his brakes. This action then sent his vehicle into a skid. Associated factors included the speed of the vehicle (too fast for conditions), the slick roadway and the weather (snow).

The driver of V2 was a 25-year old male who reported that he had been traveling between 18-32 kmph (11-20 mph) when he noticed that V1 was losing control. When he observed V1 skidding toward him, he attempted to slow down further but could not avoid impact. The driver of V2 was on his way to work. He had no health problems and had taken no medication. He was wearing his prescribed lenses that corrected a myopic (nearsighted) condition. He was not injured during the crash.

No Critical Precrash Event and no Critical Reason were coded to the driver of V2 because he was not involved in the first harmful event (the impact between the front of V1 and the front of V3). Although he did not contribute to the crash (he took appropriate avoidance actions), two associated factors were coded to him: the condition of the roadway (slick) and the weather (snow).

The driver of V3 was a 47-year old male who reported that he had been traveling between 34-48 kmph (21-30 mph) prior to the crash. This driver had history of high blood pressure. He was taking a cholesterol-lowering medication that had no known performance-impairing side effects. The driver was traveling for work and felt rested. He had only traveled 10 miles before the crash occurred. He was not injured during the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V3 was when another vehicle encroached into his lane from the opposite direction, over the left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to the driver of V3 and he was not thought to have contributed to the crash. He took appropriate avoidance actions. Two associated factors were coded to the driver of V3 that were coded to all three vehicles: the condition of the roadway (slick) and the weather (snow).