This two-vehicle collision occurred on a four-way intersection controlled by traffic control signals. No adverse weather conditions present at the time of collision.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Dodge Ram 4x4 pickup, was traveling west in lane two of a four-lane, divided, concrete, level roadway with a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). A 68-year-old male driver occupied V1. V1 approached the intersection with the intention of going straight. As the driver approached the intersection, he failed to notice the red traffic control signal and the front of V1 struck the left side of vehicle two (V2). The driver of V1 did not attempt any evasive maneuvers. V1 rotated counter clockwise, V2 clockwise, and the vehicle's side slapped as they came to rest in the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Geo Tracker SUV with a 41 year old female driver and one passenger, was traveling south in lane one of a two-lane, two-way, undivided, concrete roadway with a +8% slope. The posted speed for V2 was 40 kmph (25 mph). V2 was stopped at the traffic control signal for about a full cycle and proceeded into the intersection with the intent of going straight. V2 driver proceeded forward without looking to either side and never saw the other vehicle before contact. The driver of V1, according to the PAR, received a non-incapacitating injury, but was not transported. The driver and passenger of V2 complained of injury and were transported. Both vehicles were towed due to damage.

V1's driver was distracted due to drinking coffee while driving. He performed inadequate surveillance of the roadway, thus leading to traffic control device violation and subsequent collision with V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: internal distraction.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.