The two-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of a four-way intersection. The eastbound roadway was a one-way 5-lane roadway. The intersecting roadway had two lanes northbound and three lanes southbound. The roadways were asphalt, dry, and level. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph) for all directions. The intersection was controlled by signalized traffic lights with pedestrian crossing for all directions. The crash occurred in the late afternoon on a weekend. There were no adverse weather conditions and traffic flow was normal.

Vehicle one, a 2002 Ford Windstar, was traveling eastbound in lane three, a non-turning lane. As he approached the intersection, the light turned green. He realized that he needed to make a left turn. He noticed V2, a 1999 Toyota Corolla, in lane four to his left and thought it was going to turn left also. However, as he turned in front of V2, his vehicle's left side was contacted by V1's front right corner. The driver of V2 had intended to go straight. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

The driver of V1, a 49-year old male, was from out of town and had driven for several hours prior to the crash to visit his daughter in college. He was unfamiliar with the roadway. His explanation for his action was that he needed to make a left turn. V1 was not towed.

The driver of V2, a 35-year old female, stated that she had the right of way and that V1 crossed in front of her. She thought V1 was going to go straight, since it wasn't in a turning lane. V2 was towed due to damages. The police, however, listed the crash as a non-reportable accident. There weren't any injuries resulting from the crash.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was when it began to turn left at the intersection. The Critical Reason was coded as an illegal maneuver (turning from the wrong traffic lane). Associated factors coded to this driver include false assumption of other driver's actions (he assumed that V2 was going to turn) and unfamiliarity with the roadway.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was when V1 encroached into its lane from an adjacent lane. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to the driver of V2.