Summary 087

V1, a 1997 Ford Crown Victoria taxi cab, was westbound in lane 2 of a straight, level, 5 lane, bituminous, urban roadway. At the time of the single vehicle crash it was dark but lighted and the roadway was dry. V1 drifted left across the center turn lane and both oncoming lanes and exited the roadway to the left. V1, front, struck a utility pole, severing it and came to rest facing west. The driver called his office and someone came and picked him up so he left the scene and returned when the police and HVA were notified later. He returned to the scene when requested by police. He was uninjured but v1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

A complete driver interview and vehicle inspection was obtained for v1. The driver was properly licensed for and familiar with the vehicle. As an employee of a taxi company, he was just returning to his home yard after dropping off a fare 12 miles away. He was nearing completion of a 12-hour shift that began at 7pm the previous evening. The driver stated that v1 experienced a mechanical malfunction that caused the vehicle to veer left and that the brakes did not respond when applied. Inspection of the vehicle did not reveal anything to support this claim. The Pre-event movement of v1 was going straight, the Critical pre-crash event was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side and the Critical reason for critical pre-crash event was the driver related factor of the driver sleeping, falling asleep at the wheel. Though the driver denies falling asleep at the wheel, scene evidence does not support his claim but rather indicates a gradual run-off-road with no attempts at avoidance actions. Factors contributing to the crash include the length of hours that the driver had worked before the crash, the absence of any evasive actions by the driver, the performance error by the driver to maintain proper control over the vehicle and the driver being fatigued at the time of the crash. After leaving the scene, the driver had gone home and gone to sleep. Alcohol was not involved.