The crash occurred at a four-way intersection in the northbound lanes of a suburban/industrial roadway. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph), and the northbound lanes had a downhill grade of 4 percent. Conditions were daylight and dry with cloudy skies. The crash occurred in the early afternoon hours of a weekend day.

Vehicle one was a 1999 Volkswagen Jetta sedan traveling southbound in lane four, the left turn lane. Vehicle two was a 2004 Ford Focus sedan traveling northbound in lane two. V1 proceeded to turn left while V2 was going straight through the intersection. The front of V1 impacted the left side of V2. V1 came to rest in the intersection. V2 then traveled off the northeast corner of the intersection coming to rest against a group of small trees. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 33-year old male who was transported to a local trauma center with possible injuries. He stated that he was traveling straight and arrived at the intersection without stopping while the protected left turn signal was green. He estimated his travel and impact speeds to be 30 mph. He did not have a chance to execute any avoidance actions. After the driver gave this description of the crash, he was transported by ambulance, and the driver was then unavailable for further questioning. V1 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling turning left at an intersection. The Critical Reason was coded as an unknown driver error. No associated factors could be coded from this partial interview or from official records. Although both drivers claimed to have a green light, it was decided that it was more likely that the driver of V1 had entered the intersection on a solid green light, failing to yield the right of way to V2. It is entirely possible that as he approached the intersection, he did have a green turn arrow but the arrow did not remain long enough for him to complete his turn.

V2 was driven by a 25-year old female with two passengers. She stated that she was going straight through a green light at the intersection when she was struck by V1. She estimated her travel and impact speeds to be 45 mph. At the last moment she said she swerved right and braked without lockup. V2 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from the opposite direction across the left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this driver. No additional associated factors were coded to this driver.