This two-vehicle collision occurred in a non-controlled driveway related roadway. No adverse weather conditions at the time of the collision. Roadway at collision was level, bituminous. Pre-crash roadway for V2 was level, concrete. V1, with one occupant, was traveling south in lane 2 of a 5-lane divided roadway without a positive barrier. V2, with one occupant, was traveling east in lane 1 of a two-lane undivided two-way driveway.

V1, a 2002 Subaru Impreza WRX sedan, was traveling south in lane 2 above the posted speed limit. As V1 driver approached driveway, driver saw V2 stopped and then proceed forward at a low rate of speed. Initially, V1 driver did not attempt any avoidance maneuvers because driver assumed V2 driver was going to continue across traffic lanes instead of moving across traffic lanes very slowly. Ultimately, V1 driver realized that V2 was encroaching traffic lane and attempted to avoid collision by applying brakes. The front of V1 struck the front left side of V2. After impact, V1 continued in lane 2 and came to rest approximately 15 meters from point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 1994 Buick LeSabre sedan, was traveling east and came to a stop before continuing across southbound lanes. V2 had no traffic control device to comply with. V2 driver looked to his left and right before proceeding across southbound lanes. V2 driver had noticed northbound vehicles and waited to proceed. In addition, V2 driver noticed V1 approaching at a distance and proceeded forward into southbound lanes. Unfortunately, V2 driver misjudged the speed and gap of V1 and collision was inevitable. After impact, V2 rotated clockwise 90 degrees and came to rest in lane 2 of southbound lane.

The pre-event movement for V1 coded negotiating a curve, category other vehicle encroachment from driveway turning into opposite direction. Critical reason not coded to this vehicle.

The pre-event movement for V2 coded stopped in traffic lane, category this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection. Critical reason for the critical event driver related factor "misjudgment of gap or other's speed".

Associative factors assigned to V2 are as follows: Primarily, V2 driver misjudged speed and gap of vehicle approaching from left side. This misjudgment factor is attributed to V2 driver having visual impairments resulting from a stroke 2 ½ years ago. V2 driver is blind in his left eye and has poor depth perception in his right eye. It should be noted that V2 driver complied with driver license restriction (corrective lenses) and takes two medications on a daily basis, which do not impair driver's driving and gets adequate daily rest. Secondly, V2 driver had a performance error. It is the researcher's opinion that V2 driver correctly surveyed roadway to his left and right while stopped, but failed to properly enter roadway. V2 driver saw V1 approaching from his left and a couple vehicles (northbound) approaching from his right. V2 driver proceeded very slowly across southbound lanes as if waiting for northbound vehicles to clear intersection. This action not only created the critical event, but also may have initiated V1 driver's false assumption thinking process. V2 driver should have either waited for V1 to clear intersection before proceeding forward or should have entered intersection at a higher rate of speed, clearing southbound lanes, and should have waited in middle of roadway for northbound vehicles to clear intersection. This way V1 may have not assumed V2 actions.

Although V1 driver was not the cause of collision, driver's fast driving and false assumption of other driver's action contributed to collision. Driver may have been able to prevent collision by reacting sooner to imminent danger rather than assuming other driver's actions. Also, had driver not been speeding due to running late for work this collision could have been prevented.