The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a two-way, five-lane roadway, divided by a concrete curbed median. There were three eastbound lanes. This was a straight, level, asphalt roadway, with a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow in lane two was interrupted by a utility crew that was pumping water out from a manhole cover.

V1, a 1999 Toyota Camry with two occupants, was traveling eastbound in lane two. V2, a 1992 Nissan 300ZX with one occupant, was traveling in lane one, staggered slightly behind V1. The utility crew that was pumping water out of the manhole cover had a six-inch pipe lying across lane two. The pipe was coated with a protective covering which was gray in color. The covering blended in color with the pavement, making it difficult to see. V1 tried to steer right at the last second. The LF tire made contact with the pipe. The right side of V1 also made contact with the left side of V2. V1 and V2 continued traveling in a southeast direction after impact, toward a canal. The right side of V2 made contact with a light pole as it rotated. The back of V2 hit a concrete utility pole and came to final rest back on the roadway. V1 went into a clockwise yaw after impact with V2. The vehicle went through a series of collisions. First, the left side hit a retaining sea wall. This catapulted the vehicle into the air, as the left side went through a metal grate fence, and the top of the vehicle made contact with a large, overhanging tree branch. The tree branch kept the vehicle from rolling end-over-end, forcing V1 downward. V1 came to final rest in an upright position, suspended above the water, wedged between the retaining sea wall and a wooden dock piling. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. All drivers and occupants were transported due to injury. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

V1, the Toyota Camry, was driven by a 26-year old female, who received minor injuries. She stated that her and her boyfriend were on their way to the beach. She said that up ahead she could see that the left turn lane was blocked off with red pylons. A utility truck occupied the left turn lane. However, there were no warning signs or devices to indicate that she needed to change lanes, or even to slow down to an advisory speed limit. Her lane (lane two) was not blocked off, so she proceeded at a speed of about 64 kmph (40 mph). She said she did not see a pipe running across the roadway until it was right in front of her, because it blended in with the gray asphalt roadway. She tried to steer right, but hit the six-inch tall piping with her left front tire. She indicated that she did not know whether or not she made contact with the other vehicle. She just remembers spinning out of control toward the canal and crashing.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was object in roadway. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was environment related, signs/signals inadequate. Specifically, signs preceding this work zone did not provide any information about the traffic flow changes so that the driver could avoid the collision, even though she was operating safely. An associated factor was highway related. The work zone created a traffic flow interruption factor, which had a bearing on the crash occurrence. One potential associated factor for this driver could have been recognition related if the conversation she was having with her boyfriend in some way distracted the driver from the driving task.

V2, the Nissan 300ZX, was driven by a 29-year old male, who received minor injuries. The driver declined to be interviewed, pending litigation. This vehicle was not involved in the first harmful event. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors for this driver could not be determined