The crash occurred in the westbound lane of a two-way, two lane bituminous roadway on a clear, dry weekday afternoon. The straight and level road had a statutory speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). A two-way, two-lane road intersected the main road on the left, past the location of the crash.

V1, a 1994 Saturn LS driven by a 17-year old female, was traveling westbound behind V2. V2, a 2002 Cadillac DeVille driven by a 60-year old female, was following 3 other vehicles when the lead vehicle stopped to turn left at the intersecting road. The vehicle in front of V2 stopped suddenly. V2 was able to stop her vehicle safely and check her side and rearview mirrors to see that V1 was approaching quickly. The driver of V2 noticed that there was no shoulder on the right on which to pull over. She made sure to stop far enough behind the vehicle in front of her, so if V1 struck her back, she would not hit it. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The front of V1struck the back of V2 in the westbound lane, as V2 had almost come to a complete stop. V2 was pushed forward a short distance following the impact and then pulled forward to a stop in lane one. V2 was driven from the scene of the crash. The fully restrained driver and the 3-year old female in the back center in a child seat, did not require medical treatment.

The crash occurred when the driver of V1 looked away from the road while traffic was still moving and reached down to adjust the radio controls. When the driver looked back to the road, V2 had almost come to a stop in front of her and she had no chance for avoidance maneuvers. Both air/bags in V1 deployed. The driver and the right front 17-year old passenger, both fully restrained, did not require medical treatment. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event coded for V1 was 'other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction while decelerating. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a 'recognition error of internal distraction' coded for this driver adjusting the radio controls. Contributing Factors coded for V1 were 'inadequate surveillance for failure to look far enough ahead', and another distraction because the driver was also having a social discussion with her friend, the right front passenger. The driver was familiar with both the vehicle, which was in good condition, and the roadway. She was well rested and was wearing contact lenses to correct a myopic condition, in compliance with a license restriction, and had no health or emotional concerns. The 17 year-old driver had completed a private driver's education course and state graduated licensing requirements.

The Critical Precrash Event coded for V2 was 'other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed'. The Critical Reason was not coded to this driver. The driver was very attentive to both the road and the surrounding traffic. Appropriate evasive maneuvers were taken. Associated Factors for this driver were her menopause medication with a possible side effect of mild dizziness, the fact that she was conversing with her granddaughter in the back seat, and that she was somewhat in a hurry. She was familiar both with her vehicle, which was in good condition, and the roadway. There were no health or emotional concerns and she was well rested.

Both drivers had valid drivers licenses. Police did not consider either alcohol or illegal drugs to be a factor and ordered no tests. A citation was given to the driver of V1 for 'failure to stop in assured clear distance ahead'.