This two-vehicle crash occurred during nighttime hours at a t-bone intersection with traffic lights. The speed limit for both roadways is 48 kph (30 mph). The intersecting road is a 4-lane undivided (no positive barrier) concrete roadway for northbound travel. The main road is a 5-lane undivided (no positive barrier, middle lane is a two-way left turn lane) concrete roadway for eastbound travel. The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Ford Explorer was traveling east in the second lane of the westbound lanes. V1 was traveling in the wrong direction. V1 changed lanes from the eastbound lanes to get around vehicles stopped for the traffic light at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Honda Odyssey, was traveling north in the second lane, turning left into the westbound lanes of traffic. The front of V1 impacted the front side of V2. V2 rotated clockwise and came to rest within the intersection, facing northeast. V1 slightly rotated counter clockwise after the impact, and came to rest within the intersection, facing east. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. No injuries were reported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 26-year old male who could not be interviewed at the scene does not possess a valid motor vehicle. The researcher could not reach the driver for an interview after the crash.

The driver of V2 is a 33-year old female who claimed to be well rested and in good health. She possesses a valid motor vehicle license with no restrictions or endorsements.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over [passing through] intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: aggressive driving behavior. This vehicle was in the wrong lane and ran the red light at the intersection, had made frequent lane changes and ignored traffic controls. Illegal maneuver was coded as an associative factor..

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle in lane: traveling in opposite direction. No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle.