The crash occurred on a rural east/west two lane residential roadway. The road was straight at impact but curved slightly to the south with a radius of 562m east of the crash site and had a downgrade of 3%. Conditions were daylight and dry on a weekday evening. The posted speed limit was 72kmph (45mph).

Vehicle #1 was a 2000 Ford Escort ZX2 coupe traveling west on the two-lane road. After the vehicle had successfully negotiated the slight curve and began the straightaway the vehicle edged over the right lane line on to the 0.2m shoulder. It doesn't appear that the wheels departed the pavement. The driver overcorrected, steering left and into the oncoming lanes. As the vehicle continued west the driver then steered right going into a clockwise yaw and departed the left (south) side of the road. The vehicle struck a large utility pole that was 1.8m off the road with its left side. Yaw marks indicating where the driver edged over the lane line and began evasive actions were 45m east of pole impact. After impact the vehicle rotated clockwise and came to rest facing south just south of the pole. The Escort (V1) was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

Vehicle #1 was driven by a 16-year-old female. She along with her 14-year-old brother that was a right front passenger were transported a local hospital with non-incapacitating injuries. Both were belted and the driver and passenger frontal airbags deployed. The driver had only received her driver license 3 months prior to the crash but was familiar with the roadway and vehicle. She apparently looked down momentarily at the radio leading to the loss of control.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a recognition error, internal distraction. Associated factors included a non-driving activity, adjusting radio/CD player and a performance error, overcompensation. The driver was also coded as in a hurry; she was on her way to high school cross-country practice which was scheduled to begin in 10 minutes. Inexperienced driver was coded as well.