This two-vehicle crash occurred several hours before mid-night. At an intersection that is controlled by stop signs north/south, road surface is concrete, dry and free of defects. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at that time. The posted speed limit 48 kmph (30 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Chevrolet Suburban SUV driven by an unknown driver was traveling northbound in the first lane of a two-lane, two-way, undivided roadway. Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 Mercury Grand Marquis sedan driven by a 18 year-old male was traveling eastbound in the first lane. V1 was stolen less than 1.6 kilometers (one mile) from the crash site. The driver fled the scene after the collision. The driver of V1 did not stop for the stop sign and entered the intersection at a high rate of speed. As V2 entered the intersection, the front of V2 struck the left rear of V1, causing it to flip over into a roll. V1 rolled over and came to rest off the roadway northwest of the point of impact on its left side. V2 rotated counter clockwise and came to rest in the intersection facing northeast. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the collision. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 fled the scene and could not be identified. The driver of V2 was well rested and familiar with area. There was no indication of drug or alcohol use as a factor for this driver. As he entered the intersection, he saw V1 coming from his right at a high rate of speed. He applied his brakes in an attempt to avoid the collision, but was unable to stop prior to impact.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: aggressive driving behavior. This coding was chosen because the driver was speeding, ignored the traffic control and proceeded with insufficient clearance into the intersection. The driver of V2 stated that V1 did not stop prior to entering the intersection.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.