The crash occurred on a two-way, two lane bituminous roadway with a statutory speed limit of 89 kmh (55 mph). The conditions were clear and dry on a weekday in the early evening hours. V1, a 2005 Ford Explorer XLT, driven by a 53 year-old female was eastbound on the roadway negotiating a curve to the right. The driver of V1 fell asleep at the wheel and V1 left the eastbound lane, crossed the westbound lane, and left the roadway on the left side. V1 crossed the paved shoulder and continued onto grass where the front of V1 struck a metal delineator post and a molded plastic mailbox and post mounted on a 4"x 4" wood post. V1 went down a short 28% slope into a ditch and back up out again at the edge of a driveway, where it ramped up into the air across the driveway. V1 continued airborne until the front of the vehicle struck and broke a spruce tree, (9 cm diameter trunk at point of break 150 cm above ground), and then another similar tree, just past the first one. V1 contacted the ground and continued for a short distance before it became airborne again. V1 continued on the ground and down an 8% slope where the front right contacted a large tree (95 cm diameter trunk). V1 then rolled over and the front of V1 struck a small metal fence as it rolled three quarter turns and came to rest on the left side facing southeast. The driver woke up as V1 was traveling through the spruce trees, and stated that the vehicle seemed to be moving very fast, and she had no opportunity for avoidance maneuvers. She stated that she was going near the speed limit prior to falling asleep.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was 'this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side.' The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as a 'non-performance error - driver asleep.' The Contributing Factor coded for this teacher/driver was fatigue due to the minimal 3 hours of sleep she had the night before as she was up grading final exams late until 2:30 am. The driver then was awake at 5:30 am to begin a 12-hour workday. She stated during the interview that she felt energized at the beginning of the day in anticipation of her last day of exams and final farewells with her students. She felt relaxed at the start of the trip home, but began to feel tired about ten minutes into the drive. The driver fell asleep five minutes later as V1 was negotiating a curve and left the roadway. She stated that she had work related concerns in the week prior to the crash, but felt very calm and stress free at the end of the workday. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver has pre-existing health conditions of asthma and allergies, which require medication as, needed. The driver had not taken any prescribed or over-the-counter medication in the time prior to the crash. She was wearing her contact lenses to correct myopia and kerataconus (contacts worn to smooth out a pointed cornea), as required on her driver's license, which was valid with no endorsements.

The Explorer was brand new and had been driven by the driver only that day, although she had fifteen years of experience driving similar size and type of vehicles. There were no mechanical defects found during inspection. The 2005 Explorer has Advanced Trac with Roll Stability Control. V1 rolled as it contacted the large tree with the front right corner as the front left wheel was traveling down a slope. The driver was familiar with the road as she drives it daily. Police did not consider either alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no tests. There were no citations issued in the crash. The fully restrained driver was able to unbuckle her seatbelt and get out of the vehicle under her own power. The front airbags deployed in the crash. The driver was transported to a local trauma center where she was treated and released due to injuries.