This crash occurred in an intersection of two, two-way roadways. The north and southbound roadway was controlled by stop signs, and the east and westbound roadway was uncontrolled. The north/south roadway was straight and level, and the westbound roadway was level and curved to the left. The posted speed limit for both roadways was 40 kmph (25 mph). The weather conditions at the time of the crash were clear and sunny, and the roadways were dry.

V1, a 1999 Buick Century driven by an 80-year old male, was traveling southbound approaching the intersection, and for unknown reasons didn't stop at the stop sign. The vehicle continued into the intersection, where it was struck by V2. V2, a 1990 Cadillac DeVille, was traveling westbound approaching the same intersection. The driver of V2, a 43-year old male, observed V1 approach the stop sign and slow, but not stop. He stated that V1 then accelerated into the intersection. When he saw this, he reported that he "stomped" on his brakes and steered left; however, the front of V2 struck the left front of V1. After this impact, V2 rotated in a counterclockwise direction and the right side of V2 "slapped" the left side of V1. V1 continued in a southerly direction and its front then impacted a utility pole on the southwest corner of the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for the driver of V1 was when he began to cross over (pass through) the intersection. The critical reason for this event was an illegal maneuver (failed to stop for traffic control device). During the crash, the driver suffered minor head injuries and was unable to remember the details leading up to the crash and the crash itself.

The critical pre-crash event for the driver of V2 was when another vehicle encroached into his lane from a crossing street, across his path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. The driver stated that he tried to avoid the crash by applying the brakes and steering to the left; however, due to recent knee surgery, he was still unable to bend his right knee. This physical condition was coded as an associated factor.