This is a two vehicle, rear-end type crash that occurred in the eastbound lane of a dry, one lane, two way asphalt roadway. The roadway has one westbound and one eastbound lane that is separated by a painted centerline stripe. This crash is intersection related. A posted sign prior to entering on a two way, one lane asphalt roadway, controls the intersection. The speed limit on the roadway where the crash occurred is posted 80 kmph (50 mph). There were no sight line restrictions. The crash occurred during morning daylight hours; the weather conditions were clear.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1991 Mazda Protégé sedan, driven by a 21 year-old female was traveling eastbound on a two-lane roadway at approximately 80 kmph (50 mph) approaching the intersection. V1 began to slow down and the driver looked down at the right front seat. Upon redirecting her attention to the roadway, the driver noticed V2 stopped at the stop sign. The V1 driver then applied the brakes and skidded approximately 14 meters (45.9 feet) before impacting the rear of V2. V1 came to rest in the original lane of travel facing generally east. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

Vehicle two (V2) a 2004 Chevrolet Silverado pickup, driven by a 43 year-old male was traveling eastbound on the two-lane roadway and stopped at the stop sign. V2 was stopped for approximately 5-10 seconds intending to turn right. The driver stated that he heard brakes squealing and looked in his rear view mirror and saw V1 approaching. The driver released his brake pedal and started to move forward when the rear of his vehicle was contacted by the front of V1. V2 came to rest in the eastbound lane facing generally east. V2 was not towed due to damage.

The pre event movement for V1 was coded as: going straight. The critical pre crash event was coded as: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason was coded as a driver related recognition factor: internal distraction. The V1 driver was looking down at the right front seat at paperwork on the seat and then looked straight ahead and noticed that V2 was stopped for the stop sign. The V1 driver then applied the brakes but was unable to stop before striking the rear of V2.

The pre event movement for V2 was coded as: stopped in traffic lane. The critical pre crash event was coded as: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.