his crash occurred in the early morning at 630am, during daylight hours, on a two-lane, two-way, not divided rural roadway with a posted speed limit of 80 kmph (55mph). The vehicle driven by a 22 year-old female was west bound, when it lost control, and departed the roadway off the right side.

V1 a 1993, Mitsubishi 3000 GT, was in the right lane headed west bound when for unknown reasons it lost control, the driver applied the brakes in an attempt to regain control but could not. The vehicle entered the eastbound lane, due to the control loss the vehicle began a clockwise rotation and traveled for 25m before reentering the westbound lane and continuing off the roadway on the right side. The vehicle contacted two small trees, and continued to travel along a ditch until it struck an embankment where it came to rest. The vehicle was towed due to damage, the driver was uninjured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver stated that this was her boyfriend's car and that she had borrowed it to go to work. She was not familiar with the vehicle and stated that she had only driven it four times in the last few months. She stated that the vehicle had just been in the shop for new tires, but she stated that they had broken the right front wheel bearing, she stated that they would not fix the bearing so it was welded together. When asked about the vehicle's handling before the loss of control she stated that the "wheel locked up", and that is what caused her to lose control. Upon later discussion with the owner, he stated that this vehicle had a vibration that could be felt only above 97kmph (60 mph). These two stories lead me to believe that it was either a mechanical malfunction, or driver's perception of a mechanical failure that created the loss of control.

The precrash event for this vehicle is coded going straight the critical event is this vehicle losing control due to unknown reasons. The critical reason for this event is coded as unknown vehicle failure, due to either the vibration at higher speeds, or the actual suspension failure. Associative factors for this accident are coded driver unfamiliarity of vehicle, as well as the driver's position with in the vehicle. Upon inspection of the vehicle it was observed that the drivers seat was in such a position that a driver of the height of the driver would have limited ability to respond to emergency situations.