This intersection type crash occurred during the morning rush hour on a 4 lane divided, east/west bituminous, level roadway and a 2-way, two lane, level, straight roadway that intersects the other roadway from the south. Traffic on the north/south roadway is controlled by a stop sign. The speed limit on the main roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). Weather was not a factor in this crash.

Vehicle one (V1), was a gold 1995 Oldsmobile Aurora 4 door sedan occupied only by the restrained 47-year-old male driver. V1 was traveling east in the second lane of the four lane divided roadway, next to a school bus. As V1 came into the intersection, vehicle two (V2) pulled into the intersection and was struck on the left side by the front of V1. V2 was a silver 1988 Chevrolet Beretta 2 door coupe occupied by the 38-year-old male driver and one passenger. V2 stopped, and then pulled into the intersection with the intention of turning left (west). Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, who was traveling east in the second lane, was parallel to a school bus on the right side of V1. As the bus came close to the intersection the bus driver slowed to make a right turn. The bus was blocking the view of the intersection to the right of V1, making the driver unable to survey the intersection properly. The driver of V2 had left home about 10 minutes prior to the crash to go to work, which he was 25 minutes late and was at least 20 minutes away. The driver came upon the intersection stopped, looked to the right to see if was clear, then to the to the left. The driver noticed the bus with it's right turn signal on. The driver of V2 then pulled into the intersection was struck. At the time of the crash the driver confessed to being late for work and even though he received 7 hours of sleep, he was tired. So being tired, late for work and having an obstructed view of the intersection were factors for this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V2 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).