This accident occurred on a two-way, two-lane roadway. The roadway is not physically divided, and there was no traffic-control device involved in this crash. The conditions were as follows: late morning, rain, cloudy skies, and the roadway was wet. The gradient for the three vehicles involved was level. The posted speed limit for the three vehicles was 56 kmph (35 mph).

V1 was a Toyota Avalon, traveling eastbound. V1 was driven by a 66-year old female. V1 traveled over the double yellow line to the left into oncoming traffic. V2, a Buick Le Sabre, and V3, a Dodge Caravan, were both traveling westbound. V2 was driven by a 60-year old female and V3 was driven by a 59-year old male. The left front of V1 struck the left front of V2, and then V1 struck the left front of V3, scraping down the side toward the left front door. V2 came to final rest off to the right side of the roadway, with its two left wheels still on the roadway. V3 came to final rest close to the point of impact off to the right side of the roadway, with its two left wheels still on the roadway. All three vehicles needed to be towed from the scene because they could not be driven. The driver of V1 needed to be transported due to unknown injuries. The driver of V2 was not injured. The only injury in V3 was to a passenger, and the passenger needed to be transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded as: this vehicle traveling over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event is unknown, because the researcher was not able to obtain an interview. The driver of V1 would not return the researcher's phone calls. It was known from the medical report that the driver of V1 was taking a prescription medication used to treat osteoporosis. Another associated factor (coded to all three drivers) was the weather, because it was raining at the time of the crash and the roadway was wet.

The driver of V2 was traveling westbound and turned right to avoid the crash. With this maneuver, the driver unfortunately could not prevent this crash. Unfortunately, the researcher was only to attain about half of the interview, via phone. The researcher tried a few other times to attain the rest of the information. The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded as other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction - over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors included the use of bifocals and the weather condition at the time of the crash.

The driver of V3 was traveling westbound and turned right to avoid the crash. With this maneuver, the driver unfortunately could not prevent this crash. Unfortunately, the researcher was not able to attain an interview. The researcher tried a few times to attain the information. Neither the Critical Precrash Event nor the Critical Reason was coded to V3 because it was not involved in first harmful event. The only associated factor was the weather (rain).