This one-vehicle crash occurred in the evening after dusk on an eastbound, straight, five-lane expressway with a slight uphill grade. At the time of the crash, it was dark, but the weather was clear and the roadway was illuminated by streetlights. The right side of the roadway has a narrow shoulder, but the left side does not have a shoulder. This roadway was separated from the westbound lanes by a short concrete median wall. This westbound section did not play a role in the crash. Beyond the crash location, the eastbound roadway splits into local and express lanes. The speed limit on the expressway was 72 kmph (45 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1993 Mercury Grand Marquis 4 door, reportedly carrying two occupants, was traveling eastbound in the #4 lane. For undetermined reasons, the driver of V1 went to the left, departed the roadway, and hit the concrete median wall. According to the police report, a male and female were seen fleeing the crash site across the expressway. The police could not locate the occupants when they arrived on scene. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

No occupant information could be determined from either the crash response or the police report. V1 was registered to an individual who could not be located. In addition, the police report indicated the license plates were registered to a 1989 Mercury Grand Marquis with a different VIN. At the scene, the vehicle smelled heavily of alcohol and numerous beer bottles were scattered on the floor of V1.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V1 was coded as: "This vehicle control loss due to: Unknown cause of control loss". The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as: "Unknown reason for critical event." The right rear passenger door was deformed and red paint transfer was present. It is possible that the crash sequence was initiated by V1 contact with another vehicle and that the wall impact was a second event, however, no drivers or witnesses surfaced and it could therefore not be determined whether or not the right side damage to V1 was related to this crash. Because it is unknown if only one vehicle was involved in the crash, determination of the pre-crash phase of the crash could not be determined, nor could the critical reason be determined without additional information.