This collision occurred during the mid-afternoon hours on a three-lane, divided highway with a positive barrier. There was construction on the adjacent roadway and there was no shoulder. The road was dry, traveled concrete with a negative grade. The posted speed limit was 97 kmph (60 mph). Traffic was moderate at the time of the collision. There were no adverse weather conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Freightliner tractor with one trailer, was traveling westbound in the second travel lane. The driver was a 46 year-old male. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Dodge Status, was stopped in the third westbound travel lane. The driver of V2 was a 33 year-old male. Vehicle three (V3), a 2005 Toyota Avalon was stopped ahead of V2 in the third travel lane. The driver of V3 was a 50 year-old female. Vehicle four, (V4), a 2000 Pontiac Grand Am, was stopped ahead of V3 in the third travel lane, it's driver was a 54 year-old female. Vehicle five (V5), was a 1990 Oldsmobile Cutlass that had stalled and was stopped in the third travel lane ahead of V4. According to the police report the driver of V5 was outside of the vehicle pouring gas into it. Vehicle six (V6) was a U-haul straight truck and was westbound in the first travel lane. The driver of V3 was transported to a medical facility. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 approached the stopped traffic and started to merge right from the second travel lane into the third lane. V1 struck the rear of V2 with its front, continued to merge right and its front struck the rear of V3. V3 was pushed forward into the rear of V4 and onto the concrete traffic barrier where it came to rest. V4 rotated counterclockwise and its right side struck the rear of V5. V6 merged from the first travel across the second travel lane and into the third lane, struck the left side of V1 and the left side of V4. After the collision occurred, the driver of V5 got in the vehicle and fled the scene. The vehicle was later recovered a short distance away. Vehicle's 1,2,3,4 were towed from the scene.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 is: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the right side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event is coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). This driver failed to observe that V5 was stalled in the traffic lane he merged into.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 is: other vehicle encroachment; from adjacent lane (same direction) - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event is not coded to V2.

V3, V4, V5 and V6 were not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to any of these vehicles.