This two-vehicle crash occurred shortly after noon during daylight hours on a north/south, eight-lane divided expressway. Both the northbound and southbound sections are comprised of four lanes each and straight. A flower garden median bordered by short concrete walls separates the sections from one another. North of the crash area, the two roadways are separated by a grassy median bordered by short concrete curbs. South of the crash area, the two roadways are separated by a grassy median bordered by guardrails. The speed limit on the expressway was 72 kmph (45 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Volkswagen Jetta carrying one occupant, was traveling southbound in the fourth (far left) lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Honda Civic carrying one occupant, was traveling northbound in the fourth (far left) lane. A non-contact police car was traveling southbound in the second lane, approximately one car length behind V1. The driver of V1 felt uncomfortable driving in the left lane due to the higher speeds of the vehicles around her, so she decided to change lanes to the right (third lane). She activated her turn signal and checked her mirrors. As she changed lanes, she turned her head to the right to check the blind spot and saw that the police vehicle was beginning to enter the same lane. The driver of V1 slammed on the brakes and swerved back to the left lane and V1 began to fishtail. The vehicle re-entered the third lane and the driver steered the vehicle back to the left again. V1 passed through the fourth lane then contacted the left roadside curb with the Left Front tire and then entered the flower garden median. The left side of V1 then contacted the east side raised concrete median wall and V1 rolled to its left two quarter turns, falling onto its roof in the fourth lane of northbound traffic. The front of V2 contacted the left side of V1 and V2 came to rest in the third lane, facing generally northbound. Both vehicles were towed due to damage and the driver of V1 received an incapacitating injury and was transported to a medical facility. The driver of V2 was not injured or transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 31-year-old female that had been driving for 13 years. She spent the first five years driving in India and the remaining eight in the United States. She had received driver training from driving schools both in India and the United States. This was her first time driving this vehicle and she drove the roadway a few times a month. The driver was uncomfortable with surrounding traffic and decided to change lanes to her right. As the driver was making a lane change to her right, she observed a non-contact police vehicle begin to change into the same lane. The driver panicked and over corrected to her left losing control of the vehicle. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded to V1 as: poor directional control.

The driver of V2 was a 20-year-old male. There were no notable factors for this driver. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other- not involved in 1st harmful event. The critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to V2.