This two vehicle crash occurred just after dawn during daylight hours in the middle of a tri-color traffic-controlled, four-way intersection. South of the intersection, the northbound lanes are comprised of three lanes which include two through lanes and a left turn lane. The southbound lanes are comprised of two lanes. The east/west roadway is comprised of one lane in each direction. The road surface is asphalt and was dry. The posted speed limit on the road was 48 kmph (30 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Ford Taurus sedan driven by a 49 year-old female, was traveling northbound in the first lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 International 9100 tractor pulling a 1990 Great Dane flat-bed trailer was carrying approximately 181 kg (400 lbs.) of sheet metal. V2 was driven by a 49 year-old male was traveling northbound initially in the second lane. The driver of V2 was attempting to turn right (east) at the intersection, but due to the truck's length, the driver had to widen the turn to the left. He changed lanes to the left and the truck straddled the left turn lane and the second through lane. The truck then started to turn right in the intersection where it came in contact with V1. The right front corner of the truck contacted the left side of V1. This caused V1 to rotate counterclockwise in front of the tractor. The front of V1 contacted the front of V2, causing V1 to spin in the other direction (clockwise). V1 continued to the northeast and its front contacted a pole, spinning the vehicle counterclockwise and its right side hit an iron fence. The truck continued on a northeast heading and drove onto the northeast corner sidewalk, striking a streetlight pole with its front end. The streetlight then fell onto a 2002 Ford Mustang, parked in a used car lot. V1 was towed due to damage and the driver was transported to the hospital with a police reported unknown injury. V2 was not towed and the driver was uninjured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 had been driving for approximately forty years. She was familiar with both the vehicle and the roadway. She stated that she remembered seeing the truck exit an expressway two blocks south of the crash site, but never saw the truck again. The driver of V2 had been driving trucks for fifteen years. He was familiar with the truck and drove the area several times a month. He stated that he took the turn wide to the left in order to complete the right turn. He said he never saw V1.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from adjacent lane (same direction) - over left lane line. The critical reason not coded to this vehicle. An additional factor for V1, according to the driver interview may have been in a hurry to get to work, She also stated there were no traffic control devices at the intersection. Inadequate surveillance was an associative factor for this driver.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning right at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V2 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). The driver commenced with his turn without adequately surveying traffic to make sure it was clear to make his turn. He also was turning from the wrong lane.