This four vehicle crash occurred during early morning rush hour. The roadway was dry and sunlit. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at that time. The posted speed limit 56 kmph (35 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Dodge Ram Pick-up driven by a 22 year old male with one passenger, was traveling southbound in the second lane of a three lane, divided roadway without a positive barrier (seven lanes overall). Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Honda Civic sedan driven by a 31 year old male, was traveling southbound ahead of V1 in the same lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 1999 Ford F-150 Pick-up driven by a 29 year old male, was traveling southbound ahead of V2 in the same lane. Vehicle four (V4), a 2004 Lexus RX350 SUV driven by a 69 year old male with two passengers, was traveling southbound ahead of V3 in the same lane. V4 stopped in the travel lane for a school bus that was located in the first lane of the roadway. V3 came to a stop behind V4. V2 came to a stop behind V3. V1 was unable to stop and struck the back of V2. The front of V2 then struck the rear of V3. The front of V3 then struck the rear of V4. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle as a driver related factor: type of driver error unknown. There was no interview obtained for the driver of V1

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 and V4 were not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to these vehicles. Additional factors,the driver of V3 during the interview stated that the school bus did not have it's stop sign out and did not believe V4 should have stopped. The driver of V3 did not see the actions of V1 or V2 prior to the collision.

Congested traffic was a factor for all vehicles due to the school bus loading/unloading of passengers.