This three vehicle crash occurred during early evening hours at a 4- leg intersection with stop signs controlling traffic flow east/west. Road surface was dry, level concrete. The posted speed limit was 48 kmph (30 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 red 4-door Chevrolet Blazer driven by a 17 year-old female with two passengers, was traveling west in the curb lane. V1 entered the intersection to make a right turn and was struck on the left front fender by the front of vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Jeep Cherokee driven by a 50 year-old female with one passenger. V2 was traveling north in the curb lane. V1's left side then side slapped with the right rear of V2. V1 rotated to the right after the second impact with V2 and struck the left of V3 with its front. V1 came to final rest facing north in the north- bound lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 1990 gray 4-door Nissan Maxima driven by a 37 year-old male with one passenger, was traveling south. V3 was struck on the front bumper by the front of V2; and then V3's left rear was impacted by the front of V1. V3 ended up facing slightly southwest still in the first lane. All three vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 has been driving for one month and has had no driver education/ training. The driver was engaged in a heated discussion with the right front passenger, her boyfriend. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling turning right at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). Due to the on-going argument with the passenger, the driver looked to the right and then looked straight ahead; however she failed to look to her left (in the direction of V2's approach) prior to proceeding with her right turn.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into same direction, The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason is not coded to this vehicle.