This single vehicle crash occurred during evening hours on a dry, four-lane, median divided, uphill, roadway that curved sharply to the left and runs east to west. The crash occurred in a construction zone with uneven lanes and the roadway was unfinished. In the median there was a sharp embankment that elevated the eastbound lanes roughly 3.7 meters (12.1 feet) above the westbound lanes. The speed limit in the construction zone was 74 kmph (45 mph). It was dark and unlit in the area of the crash. There were also no adverse atmospheric conditions present at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1993 Honda Accord was traveling westbound in lane one at 105 kmph (65 mph). V1 departed the right edge of the roadway, re-entered the right side of the roadway, departed lane one to the left, and departed the left side of the roadway. The right rear of V1 then contacted the embankment in the median and began to roll over. V1 came to rest on its wheels in the median facing west. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1 was a 57-year-old-male. He had been driving for 3 and ½ hours at the time of the crash. He stated that he blacked out just before to the crash. The driver of V1 also stated that he had consumed two drinks of bourbon and two beers prior to the crash. The driver was extremely fatigued due to his 65-hour-per-week work schedule that was compounded with his having had no sleep in the past 24 hours. The driver last slept ended approximately 25.5 hours prior to the crash for a total of just four hours of sleep. The driver also was taking a mixture of sedatives, tranquillizer's, and anti-depressants at the time of crash (Lisinopril, Paxil, BuSpar, and Trazadone). Medical records indicated the driver had a BAC test result of 0.34.

This critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road to the right side. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded as a driver related factor: sleeping, that is actually asleep. Sleep was induced by consumption of alcohol, medications, and compounded by lack of sleep and heavy work load.