This single vehicle crash occurred just after midnight on a two-lane, two-way, undivided rural state route with paved shoulders on both sides. The asphalt roadway is straight and level. The weather conditions were clear and dry. It was dark with no streets lights. The speed limit is 72 kmph (45 mph).

Vehicle one a 2001 Volkswagen Jetta was traveling eastbound in lane one. The right front passenger grabbed the wheel and jerked it to the left into the oncoming lane. The driver and the passenger both jerked the wheel back to the right and the vehicle initiated a clockwise rotation as it skidded laterally leaving the roadway via the right shoulder. The left side of the vehicle then impacted two trees before the back left struck another tree and the vehicle ricocheted back onto the roadway coming to rest facing northeast partially in lane one and on the right shoulder. The vehicle was towed due to damage. The restrained driver suffered minor cuts and bruises. The passenger fled the scene prior to police arrival. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of vehicle one is a 20 year-old male who possesses a valid driver's license with no restrictions or endorsements. He was coming from a gas station to his passenger's residence, a distance of approximately 8-kilometers, or 5-miles. He drives the route weekly and is familiar with the vehicle that he owns and he claimed it to be in good condition. He slept 9 hours the night before and had been awake some 16 hours. His work involves heavy lifting/shoveling. He works a 40-hour week, 8-hour day. He was issued a citation for driving under the influence of alcohol. According to the driver the right front passenger had also been drinking.

The critical pre crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle loss of control due to-other cause of control loss. The right front passenger jerked the steering wheel first to the left and then to the right allowed the driver to lose control. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction. The driver could not control the vehicle due to the interference/action and horseplay within the vehicle from the passenger). Fatigue was also present, his work is strenuous and it had been 16 hours since his last sleep. Poor directional control was an associative factor which occurred after the passenger interfered with the driving task.