A two-vehicle crash occurred after noon during daylight with no adverse weather or road conditions. This crash location was in a 4-leg intersection with asphalt travel lanes. This intersection has a divided primary roadway running north to south. This roadway is divided by a wide dirt median. The 4-lanes in the northbound travel direction are straight and have no traffic controls with a posted speed limit of 105 kmph (65 mph). The east and west roadway is two-way and undivided with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). Its eastbound travel lanes are curved to the left as they approach the intersection and are comprised of 4-lanes with stop sign control at the intersection.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Honda Civic, was westbound in the #2 travel lane and entered the intersection not stopping at the stop sign. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Ford Windstar van, was northbound in the #2 ravel lane going straight through the intersection. As both vehicles traveled through the intersection, the front of V2 impacted with the left rear quarter panel of V1. V1 rotated counterclockwise exiting the north side of the roadway. The right side of V1 struck a shrub and the undercarriage struck the culvert before V1 came to rest facing east. V1 was towed for disabling damage and both occupants were transported, treated and released due to their injuries. After V2's front plane contacted V1, V2 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest in the northbound #2 lane heading in a easterly direction. The driver and two occupants were slightly injured, transported and released from a local hospital. V2 was towed for disabling damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 20-year-old female who was unable to be reached for an interview, so details related to this driver are based on the police report and medical record. According to the medical record the driver could not recall the events of the crash. She takes no medications and no known prior medical conditions were indicated. There was no indication of any drug or alcohol consumption for this driver. A witness statement in the police report indicates the driver of V1 did not stop for the posted stop sign. There were no sight line restrictions for either driver. The Critical precrash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was assigned to the driver of V1 as an unknown type of driver error due to lack of details of why the driver failed to stop at the stop sign and did not yield the right of way to V2. It could not be determined if it was a recognition or decision error for this driver. The police report listed inattention as a factor for the driver, but was not specific at to why this was a factor.

The driver of V2 was a 50-year-old female who was northbound with a self-reported travel speed of approximately 97 kmph (60 mph), which was under the posted speed limit of 105 kmph (65 mph). Prior to the crash she was conversing with her 20-year-old son, the right front passenger. She had been driving about two hours and was on her way to her mother's house to celebrate her mother's birthday. She has asthma for which she uses an inhaler and takes the medications Singulair. The driver said she was looking straight ahead as she approached the intersection and did not see V1 until it was right in front of her. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle/encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical event was not assigned to this driver.