The crash occurred while (vehicle 1) V1 was heading East on a 2 lane not divided roadway. Conditions were early in the afternoon, partly cloudy skies, and almost completely dry roadway, slightly wet from the melting snow in the middle of the week. Just prior to the crash location, the investigator noticed a posted school speed limit sign that stated 24 kph (15mph). The roadway grade was level at the critical event and at the crash.

V1 was a 1998 Oldsmobile Silhouette minivan that just finished negotiating a slight curve past a school. After the curve V1 hit an ice patch and a bush on the right side of V1. Then started to lose control and departed the roadway to the left side. She left the road and hit the mailbox on the north side of the driveway. She continued across the driveway running over large bolders and hitting the large cement light post on the south side of the driveway coming to rest up an embackment in the bushes. The minivan went for approximately 20m, after departing the roadway, up a slight embankment. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1.

V1 was driven by a 51-year old female, who was transported to a local hospital for bruises on the left side of her face and pain in her back. The driver stated that she hit an ice patch on the right side of the road, hit some bushes, and lost control of the vehicle and went off the roadway to the left. She estimated her speed was under the 40 kph (25mph). The minivan was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was that the vehicle lost control due to traveling too fast for conditions. Critical Reason for the Critical Event was too fast for conditions to be able to respond to unexpected actions of other road users. Driver of V1 stated that she had cold symptoms and was taking an over the counter cough medicine. She stated that she did not take the medicine on the day of the crash, because she had to drive this was thought not to contribute to the crash. She does not have vision or hearing problems.