The crash occurred on a two lane undivided level roadway with a posted speed limit of 30 mph (48 kph) on a weekday evening. It was raining, the roadway was wet and it was dark, but lighted at the time of the crash.

Vehicle #1, a 1995 Ford Escort and Vehicle #2, a 2000 Chevrolet Express van, were traveling north on the roadway. Vehicle #2 was ahead of Vehicle #1. Vehicle #2 pulled to the right side of the roadway into a driveway entrance. Vehicle #2 then entered the roadway to the left and attempted to cross over into a driveway on the west side of the roadway. Vehicle #1 took evasive maneuvers by braking and steering left. Vehicle #1 struck Vehicle #2 in the left side with its front. Both vehicles came to rest on the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Ford Escort (Vehicle #1, blue) was driven by a 17-year-old male who was transported, treated for a complaint of pain and released from a local hospital. The 15-year-old female passenger was not injured. There was no interview obtained. Vehicle #1 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was when Vehicle #2 entered the roadway from the driveway across Vehicle #1's path. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. It is possible that the driver of Vehicle #1 made a false assumption that Vehicle #2 would remain on the shoulder as he passed. An associated factor coded to this driver was the use of prescription medications. He was taking two medications, Triclor and HCTZ.

The Chevrolet Express van (Vehicle #2, white) was driven by a 23-year-old male who was transported for a complaint of pain, treated and released from a local hospital. The 45-year-old male passenger was not injured. There was no interview obtained, only a few details from the passenger. Vehicle #2 was driven from the scene.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #2 was when this vehicle turned left across the path of Vehicle #1. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event for this vehicle was an unknown type of driver error. It is possible that due to the darkness and weather conditions that the driver did not see or misjudged the approach of Vehicle #1. The passenger advised that driver was turning left into the deli parking lot. They had been working on-call and had been fixing a heating system, so it may also be possible that the driver had been fatigued. No other associated factors were coded to this driver.