The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a two-way, nine-lane interstate roadway divided by a concrete barrier wall. There were four southbound lanes and five northbound lanes. This was a straight, level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 105 kmph (65 mph). Conditions were daylight on a weekend morning with dry roads and clear skies.

V1, a 1997 Lincoln Continental with one occupant, was traveling in lane four. V2, a 1990 Ford F-350 with four occupants, was traveling ahead of V1 in lane two. The driver of V1 lost control while changing lanes, due to excessive speed. The front of V1 made contact with the back of V2. Following this impact, the two vehicles began to rotate counterclockwise, and the right side of V1 side slapped the left side of V2. V2's unsecured cargo load in the pickup bed shifted, scattering onto the interstate. Two of V2's occupants, also in the bed of the pickup, were ejected from the vehicle. V1 was towed due to damage. The ejected occupants of V2 were transported due to injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is 145 kmph for V1 and 145 kmph for V2.

V1, the Lincoln Continental, was driven by a 30-year old male who reported no injuries. He stated that he did not remember exactly what had happened. He said he was driving in the HOV lane and the car started spinning out of control due to something hitting it. He was able to regain control and pull off into the emergency lane after the impacts with V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "this vehicle loss of control due to traveling too fast for conditions." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was aggressive driving, a decision error. Several witnesses returned to the crash scene to report that V1 was driving at an excessively high rate of speed, changing lanes rapidly, and weaving in and out of traffic. The excess speed was coded as an associated factor.

V2, the Ford F-350, was driven by a 24-year old male who reported no injuries. The driver declined to be interviewed, pending litigation. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction at a higher speed." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors for this driver could not be determined due to lack of interview data, but the driver was not thought to have contributed to the crash.