This is two-vehicle rear end crash that occurred in the number three westbound lane of a two way, six lane, dry, asphalt roadway. The westbound and eastbound lanes are separated by a raised median. The crash occurred during the morning rush hour in daylight hours. There were no roadway deficiencies and no sight line restrictions noted. The speed limit on the roadway where the crash occurred is posted 72 kmph (45 mph).

Vehicle one (V-1), a 1994 Honda Civic DX sedan, driven by a 63 year-old female was traveling westbound in the number three lane between 48-56 kmph (30-35 mph) when V-2 slowed down while traveling to the front of V-2. The front of V-1 struck the rear of V-2. The vehicle came to rest in the number three-lane facing west. The driver was transported from the scene to a local medical facility, The vehicle was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

Vehicle two (V-2), a 2004 Cadillac Escalade, driven by a 56 year-old female was traveling westbound in the number three lane when it slowed down for street sweeper that was slowing to travel into the left turn lane. The driver of V-2 was talking on a cell phone at the time according the driver of the street sweeper. V-2 was traveling between 32-40 kmph (20-25 mph) when V-1 struck it from the rear. V-2 removed from the roadway and parked on the nearest cross street. The vehicle left the scene under it's own power.

There was no interview with the driver of V1, so many factors are unknown for this driver. According to medical records, she takes the medication Prozac. The pre event movement for V-1 was coded "going straight". The critical pre crash event was coded "other motor vehicle in lane-traveling in same direction while decelerating". The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver decision factor: type of driver error unknown.

The pre event movement for V-2 was coded "going straight". The critical pre crash event was coded "other motor vehicle in lane-traveling in same direction with higher speed". The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.