This one-vehicle crash occurred off of the roadway at a "T" intersection in an end departure configuration. Both roadways of the intersection consisted of two, non-divided lanes of travel, each in opposite directions. The northbound lane, upon which vehicle one (V1) was traveling, was controlled by a stop sign with no visual obstructions. The posted speed limit for V1 was 40kph (25mph), while the crossing lane had a posted speed limit of 56kph (35mph). There were no atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash, and the roadway was dry. The gradient for the north/south lane was measured to be 6%; the crossroad was level.

V1, a 1992 Oldsmobile 88 Royale, was traveling north approaching a stop sign at the intersection. The vehicle crossed through the intersection, departed the roadway, and traveled down a fairly steep embankment of nearly 3 meters (10 feet). V1 then traveled approximately 20-25 meters (66-82 feet) off of the roadway where it came to final rest, slightly hanging over another embankment leading down towards abandoned railroad tracks. The vehicle had to be lifted back onto the roadway with the assistance of a bulldozer before being towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

All attempts to obtain the interview from the driver, a 24-year old male, were unsuccessful. The PAR contained a narrative detailing the cause of this crash. Initially the driver stated he lost control of the vehicle after swerving from the path of another vehicle. When the officer followed up with the driver, the driver believed that he lost consciousness, which led him to drive off of the roadway and down the embankment. The driver was trapped in the vehicle for approximately 90 minutes before being found. He was transported to the hospital due to injuries. According to the medical report, the driver suffered a broken right femur.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was end departure. The Critical Reason for the Pre-crash Event was driver related - heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act. Few contributory factors could be determined - the driver did cite fatigue as a factor to police investigators.