The crash occurred on a straight, two way, two-lane residential road that ran north/south. On the north approach for the portion of road measured, there was a grade of 5.2% measured at 102 meters south of final rest point for Vehicle #1. There was also a steep downgrade of -12.5% measured at 50 meters south of Vehicle #1's final rest point. The two grades listed form a blind hill with another residential cross street (uninvolved in this crash) at its peak. The crash occurred on a weekday in the early afternoon under sunny and dry conditions. The posted speed limit was 48kph (30mph).

Vehicle #1, a 1994 Mazda B2300 pickup, was traveling north at a high rate of speed (according to eyewitnesses his tires left the ground as he topped the crown of the hill). After Vehicle #1 started down the other side of the hill it swerved right, partially departing the right side of the road causing the back right side of the truck to strike a tree. Vehicle #1 then crossed the roadway striking Vehicle #2, a 1996 Mitsubishi Mirage, that was traveling south on the road after driving around a group of children walking in the southbound lane. Vehicle #1 struck Vehicle #2 back left corner to back left corner in a sideswipe type impact. Vehicle #1 continued down the hill striking one of the children before departing the left side of the road entering a driveway. Vehicle #1 entered a carport in the driveway and struck the back of a vehicle parked inside (2002 Saturn SL1) and finally struck a support to the carport bringing it (the roof of the carport) down on top of the truck's (V1) roof and stopping Vehicle #1. Vehicle #2 came to rest just a few meters south of point of impact after it pulled off the right side of the road. Vehicle #1 was towed due to damage and Vehicle #2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle #1 was driven by an unrestrained twenty six year old male who was transported to a local hospital for treatment of minor injuries. There were no airbags in Vehicle #1. The driver stated that he was thrown to the floor of the vehicle after his first contact with the tree so he didn't remember anything except that Vehicle #2 appeared to be in his (northbound) lane when he topped the hill so he swerved right. The driver of Vehicle #1 was charged with driving on a suspended license, leaving the scene of an accident, aggravated assault, no insurance, evading arrest (he ran after V1 came to final rest), and simple possession of an uncontrolled substance.

The Critical Pre Crash Event for Vehicle #1 was this vehicle traveling: off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre Crash Event was a decision error; too fast for conditions to be able to respond to unexpected actions of other road users, specified as: responding to Vehicle #2 traveling partially in Vehicle #1's lane to avoid pedestrians. Some associated contributing factors are fatigue. The driver had 5.5 hours of sleep the previous night and had been “partying” the night before. The driver claimed to be traveling no more than 32kph (20mph). A potential Vehicle related factor was that 3 of the 4 tires in the vehicle had less than 3mm of tread which could be dangerous at a high rate of speed. An inattention factor was also coded, the driver had a personal problem with his girlfriend. A traffic flow interruption factor was included since there were children in the road.

Vehicle #2 was driven by a restrained twenty five year old male who was uninjured in the crash. No airbags were deployed in this vehicle. He said that he eased around the kids in the road when Vehicle #1 came “sailing” over the hill so he steered right and came almost to a complete stop when his vehicle (#2) was struck.

The Critical Pre Crash Event for Vehicle #2 was not involved in the first harmful event. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre Crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. This driver was not thought to have contributed to the crash. A traffic flow interruption factor was included since there were children in the road.