The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a four-lane urban highway with a grass median. There were two southbound lanes and a left turn lane that began 55 meters back from a traffic signal-controlled intersection. The roadway had a posted speed of 80 KMPH (50 MPH) and the southbound lanes had a positive 5.8% grade. Conditions were daylight and dry with cloudy skies. The crash occurred in the early afternoon hours on a weekday.

Vehicle #2 was a 2000 Honda Odyssey minivan stopped for the traffic control in the left lane. It was the fourth vehicle in line back from the signal. Vehicle #1, a 1996 Ford Windstar minivan, was stopped behind the Honda Odyssey. Vehicle #3 was a 1995 International 4700 series box truck traveling southbound in the left lane approaching the vehicles stopped at the traffic signal. The traffic light turned green and the Ford Windstar and the Honda Odyssey began to edge forward slowly. The truck was unable to stop in time and the front of the truck impacted the rear of the Windstar. The impact pushed the Windstar forward and its front right sideswiped the back left of the Odyssey. All three vehicles came to rest in the left turn lane just south of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The Ford Windstar (Vehicle #1) was driven by a 60-year old female who was transported to a local hospital with minor injuries. She stated she had come to a complete stop behind the other vehicles at the traffic signal for 5-10 seconds and then began to proceed slowly when the vehicles ahead of her began to move forward. She estimated the impact occurred only a few seconds after she began to move and that she was traveling less than 5 MPH at impact. The minivan was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was when another vehicle was in her lane, traveling in the same direction at a higher speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to this driver was the use of prescription medications. She was taking four unidentified medications: (a) a heart medication, (b) a diabetes medication, (c) a cholesterol-lowering medication, and (d) a blood pressure medication. She was wearing her prescription glasses that corrected a hyperopic (farsighted) condition. The driver of the Windstar was not thought to have contributed to the crash.

The 42-year old driver of the Honda Odyssey (Vehicle #2) stated that he was struck from behind by the Windstar when the truck couldn't stop in time, striking the Windstar and pushing it into his vehicle. The minivan also had four child occupants, two of which were in child seats. All occupants were properly restrained and none were injured. The Odyssey was driven from the scene.

No Critical Precrash Event and no Critical Reason were coded to the driver of the Odyssey because he was not involved in the first harmful event (the impact between the front of the truck and the rear of the Windstar). The driver of the Odyssey had engaged in strenuous recreational activities in the days leading up to the crash; however, he was not thought to have been fatigued at the time of the crash. No other associated factors were coded to the driver of the Odyssey and he was not thought to have contributed to the crash.

The 27-year old male truck driver (Vehicle #3) stated that as he approached the traffic signal it was green. He did not observe any brake lights ahead and so he assumed that all the vehicles were proceeding. The truck left only a few meters of pre-impact skids before it struck the Windstar. The truck driver denied any inattention or distractions and was familiar with the truck, which had a GVWR of 25,000 lbs. Police charged him with following too closely. The truck was driven from the scene. The driver was belted and not injured.

The Critical Precrash Event was when another vehicle was in his lane, traveling in the same direction but at a lower steady speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event for Vehicle #3 was coded as a misjudgment of gap or other's speed, a decision error. This was chosen because the driver of the truck reported that he observed the green traffic signal ahead, no brake lights on the vehicles in front of him, and he thought that these vehicles were going faster than they actually were. No other associated factors were coded to this driver.