This single vehicle crash occurred in the westbound median of a four-lane divided (2 lanes westbound, 2 lanes eastbound) rural highway. The roadway was straight, flat and had a posted speed of 97 kmph (60 mph). Weather conditions were daylight and dry with clear skies. The crash occurred at noon on a weekday with very little traffic.

This single vehicle crash occurred in the westbound median of a four-lane divided (2 lanes westbound, 2 lanes eastbound) rural highway. The roadway was straight, flat and had a posted speed of 97 kmph (60 mph). Weather conditions were daylight and dry with clear skies. The crash occurred at noon on a weekday with very little traffic. Police Reported Travel Speed is 113 kmph for V1.

Vehicle 1, a 2003 Pontiac Aztec, was traveling west in lane two when it departed the left side of the road, re-entered the road, departed the left side of the road again, traveled 10 meters through a grass median and struck a cable guardrail. The Pontiac Aztec came to final rest on top of the cables after receiving sideswipe damage to the right and left side. The Pontiac Aztec was towed from the scene, even though it appeared to be driveable.

An unbelted 34-year-old female drove the Pontiac Aztec with an unbelted 5-year-old passenger in the right front seat. Both occupants received minor injuries and were treated and released at a local trauma center.

The driver reported she was looking down at the center console while trying to place a soda in the cup holder when she realized she had veered off the left side of the road. She immediately pulled her vehicle back onto the roadway but had overcorrected and lost control of her vehicle. She tried regaining control by braking and maneuvering left and right, but she failed to slow her vehicle until it struck the guardrail.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was when it traveled off the edge of the road on the left side and the Critical Reason was an internal distraction on the part of this driver. No other recognition or decision factors were coded but it was noted in the driver summary that her work schedule changed the week before the crash. She requested to work a Wednesday through Sunday schedule and in order for that to happen, she had work seven days in a row. Even though she worked 56 hours in seven days, fatigue was not thought to have contributed to this crash.

She was wearing eyeglasses, which complied with the corrective lens restriction on her driver license. She was also taking a generic prescription for high-blood pressure and Advil when necessary. The police cited her for two tickets, a lane use infraction, and a child seat violation.