Case #2006-116

The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a two-way, nine-lane interstate roadway, divided by a concrete traffic barrier. There were four northbound lanes, with a posted speed of 105 kmph (45 mph). This was a straight, level, asphalt roadway. Conditions were daylight on a weekday morning with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was congested due to rush hour traffic. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

V1, a 2005 Chrysler Town and Country minivan with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane three. V2, a 1992 Toyota Corolla with one occupant, was traveling ahead of V1 in the same lane. V3, a 1996 Dodge Dakota with two occupants, was traveling northbound in lane four. V2 slowed for traffic ahead. V1 attempted to avoid V2 by quickly changing lanes to the left. The right front of V1 made contact with the left rear of V2. V1 continued traveling into the path of V3. The front right corner of V3 nicked the left rear quarter panel area of V1 before making full contact with the left side driver's area of V1. V1 and V3 were towed due to damage.

V1, the Chrysler Town and Country, was driven by a 32-year old female, who was treated on-scene. She stated that she just got off work, and was on her way to school. The driver indicated that for no apparent reason, the driver in front of her came to a near standstill. She attempted to change lanes. In doing so, the driver said she would have cleared the back of V2, if not for V3 first hitting her from behind, pushing her vehicle into the rear of V2. This was inconsistent with damage patterns, however.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related decision error, traveling too close to respond to unexpected actions of other driver. One associated factor for this driver was fatigue. Another factor was a recognition-related internal distraction. The driver was conversing on the phone with her husband at the time of the crash. There was also the presence of rush hour traffic congestion.

V2, the Toyota Corolla, was driven by a 48-year old male, who was transported to the hospital due to injury. He stated that he was on his way to work, and was diligently keeping a safe following distance of 122 meters (400 feet) to traffic in front of him. The driver indicated that he slowed down due to traffic congestion, and then felt an impact from behind.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was “other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. As with V1, there was a traffic flow interruption factor.

V3, the Dodge Dakota, was driven by a 51-year old male, who was transported to the hospital due to injury. At the scene of the crash, the driver's supervisor did not give consent for an interview. V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. Due to lack of interview data, traffic congestion was the only associated factor coded for this driver.