This two-vehicle crash occurred in the mid-morning hours in a traffic tri-color signal-controlled intersection. The east/west roadway is level, straight and has five lanes, consisting of two through lanes in each direction with a center left-turn lane. The intersecting roadway is one-way southbound, consists of three lanes with parking lanes on both sides and is level and straight. The speed limit on both roadways is 48 kph (30 mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one, a 1995 Dodge Dakota pick-up, was southbound in the center lane, approaching the intersection, intending to continue going straight. Vehicle two, a 1996 Honda Accord sedan, was westbound in lane two, also intending to travel straight through the intersection. The traffic signal was green for southbound traffic. In the intersection, the front of vehicle two struck the left side of vehicle one. Vehicle one rotated counterclockwise and came to rest south of the intersection facing northeast. Vehicle two rotated counterclockwise and came to rest south of the intersection facing southeast and was towed due to damage. The driver of vehicle one, a sixty-seven-year-old male, was driving from a business appointment to work. He was familiar with both his vehicle and his route. He was well rested and in good health although he regularly takes two medications, He noted that his traffic signal turned green as he approached, so he proceeded through the intersection. The driver of vehicle two, a thirty-one-year-old female, was traveling with her twenty-eight-year-old husband, from immigration court to their home. She was well rested, healthy and very familiar with her vehicle, but this was the first time she had been on this roadway. She and her passenger were attempting to find the freeway as well as conversing about the court proceedings. She thought that the traffic signal for her was green. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-event was coded "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason "not coded to this vehicle."

The critical pre-event was coded "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason "driver related factor; internal distraction." (driver conversing with passenger).