A two-vehicle collision occurred after dawn, during daylight hours on a Sunday morning. The collision occurred in the northbound lane on a two-way, two-lane undivided residential roadway. The pre-crash roadway has bituminous paving. Access to the roadway is not controlled. The posted speed limit for the roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). It was not raining at the time of the crash but the roadway was wet.

Vehicle 1 (V1), a 1995 Buick Park Ave, was traveling southbound in lane one, negotiating a curve to the right. Vehicle 2 (V2) a 2000 GMC Sonoma Pickup was traveling northbound in lane one, negotiating a curve to the left. The front left of V1 impacted the front left, and down the left side of V2. V2 was driven rearward and redirected east over the raised curb. As it traveled east its right side impacted and uprooted a small tree before it moved across the sidewalk onto the grass, sidewalk and bark/dirt roadside. V1 moved forward approximately 14-meters (56-feet). V1 came to rest facing southbound in the northbound lane. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 26 year-old male who was transported to the local trauma center due to injuries sustained from the crash. Most of the driver related factors for this driver are unknown, as he was not interviewed. This driver was under the influence of Cocaine, Methamphetamines, and Opiates, per toxicology report. The police reported a BAC reading of 0.14 for this driver; however, medical records indicate a reading of 0.282 was obtained about 2 hours after the crash occurred. An event data recorder reading was obtained for V1 and showed an airbag deployment event with a speed change of 45-kmph (28-mph). The crash vehicle dynamics indicate that the driver of V1 failed to maintain control of his vehicle while negotiating the curve and crossed into the opposite direction travel lane initiating the crash events.

The driver of V2 was a 45 year-old male who is reportedly in good health, with no hearing or sight restrictions. He was well rested with 7.5-hours of sleep the night before. The driver had just left his home, and was heading to work. This was a scheduled trip, and he was not in a hurry. The driver of V2 claimed that V1 came around that corner right at him going at least 50. The driver of V2 steered his vehicle to the right curb and initiated braking but was unable to avoid the impact. An event data recorder reading was also obtained for V2. This deployment event reading indicated that: 5 seconds before the airbag deployment V2 was traveling at a speed of 50-kmph (31-mph); the bake switch came on 2 seconds before deployment; and the vehicle speed was reduced to 39-kmph (24-mph) one second before deployment.

The pre-event movement for V1 was coded "Negotiating a curve." The critical pre-crash event was coded "This vehicle traveling: Over the lane line on left side of travel lane." The critical reason for the critical event assigned to this driver is "Driver Related Factor: Other critical non-performance (specified as: Driver was intoxicated, and under the influence of drugs and alcohol)." The intoxication impaired the driver's ability to control the speed and to stay within his travel lane while negotiating the curve.

The pre-event movement for V2 was coded "Negotiating a curve." The critical pre-crash event was coded "Other Motor Vehicle in Lane, traveling opposite direction." The critical reason for the critical event assigned to this driver is "Not coded to this vehicle."