This two-vehicle crash occurred in a traffic signal-controlled intersection. The north/south roadway is straight and divided by curbed median. The northbound and southbound lanes consist of three lanes; these lanes are divided by a painted median near the intersection for one left-turn lane and two through lanes. The northbound lanes have a 2% upgrade and the southbound lanes have a 2% downgrade. The speed limit for this roadway is 64 kmph (40 mph). It was dark with street lights on at the time of the crash and the roadway was wet due to earlier rain.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Buick Century, was northbound, approaching the intersection. V2, a 1988 Oldsmobile Delta, was southbound in lane two. V1 was swerving erratically and then made a left turn at the intersection. The driver of V2 realized that V1 was not stopping and applied the brakes and steered right in an attempt to avoid the crash. The right side of V1 was struck by the front of V2. V2 rotated clockwise and came to rest in the intersection facing northwest. V1 rotated counterclockwise and traveled to the south. V1 moved in a circle in the eastbound lanes and then off the roadway on the southwest corner of the intersection. The front of V1 struck a traffic signal pole and V1 came to final rest facing south. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a sixty-nine-year-old male, was traveling from his home to meet a friend for dinner. He was a diabetic and had suffered strokes ten years earlier. His current medications were Warfarin, an unspecified medication for high blood pressure, an unspecified medication for diabetes and a diuretic. This driver was unconscious at the scene and passed away twenty-nine days after the crash without regaining consciousness. His friend was interviewed and stated that this driver suffered a stroke.

The driver of V2, a twenty-three-year-old female, was traveling from a friend's house to her home. She was well rested, healthy and comfortable with her vehicle. She takes Claritin and Triphasil. She drives this route daily.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.