This two-vehicle collision occurred during late evening hours on a weeknight. The collision occurred at the four-leg intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway. The north-south roadway is a five-lane, two-way, straight, level, bituminous roadway, and was designated a 56 kmph (35 mph) zone. The east-west roadway was a two-lane, two-way, straight, level, bituminous roadway. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light traffic signal that was working properly. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Chevrolet half-ton Tahoe SUV, was traveling southbound in the first lane, approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Dodge Grand Caravan minivan, was stopped at the intersection ahead of V1 in the same lane, during the red phase of the tri-light. The front of V1 impacted the back of V2. Both vehicles moved ahead a short distance and came to rest in their original lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 21-year-old unlicensed male driver of V1 could not be interviewed; he was arrested at the scene and charged with DUI. His blood alcohol content was .226, as determined by blood test at a medical facility. He reported to police that he had come from a friend's house where he had consumed about twelve beers in a two-hour period. He stated that he was traveling behind V2, and that V2 stopped suddenly during the yellow phase of the tri-light. He reported that he was unable to avoid a collision, but the statement was unclear what evasive action, if any, was taken. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: Other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related recognition error, unknown recognition error.

The 45-year-old male driver of V2 was traveling to his home with two passengers, after having visited the home of a friend. The driver and passengers had visited their friend to offer condolences on the death of their friend's father. The driver of V2 reported that V2 was stopped for the red light for between 10 and 60 seconds before the impact. He also stated that he never saw of heard the approach of V1. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.