This daylight two-vehicle intersection type collision occurred where a one-way, four-lane, straight, and bituminous roadway with a +6.5% grade intersects a one-way, three-lane, straight, level, and bituminous roadway. Traffic control signals control traffic. The posted speed limit is 48 kmph (30 mph) and no adverse weather conditions present. The crash occurred in the mid-afternoon hours.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1990 white Chevrolet Astro minivan occupied by a restrained 17-year-old male driver, an unrestrained 31-year-old male front right passenger, and an unrestrained 19-year-old male right rear passenger, was traveling north in lane one with the intention of going straight. V1 driver was running an errand to school (pay fines), was familiar with roadway, and claimed a vehicle approaching from the rear distracted him. According to V1 driver, another vehicle was approaching from the rear on his left side, about to make contact. Driver focused his attention on vehicle and sped up to avoid any collision. It was during this time that driver failed to notice red traffic signal and made contact with westbound vehicle. The driver was running the red light, which resulted in the collision. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 silver Pontiac Grand Prix coupe occupied by a restrained 44-year-old female driver, was traveling west in lane four with the intention of going straight. V2 driver who is familiar with roadway was commuting home. Driver, who travels this roadway daily, claimed nothing distracted her upon approach to the intersection. V2 driver made no avoidance maneuvers to avoid collision. The front of V2 struck the right side of V1. After impact, V1 rotated clockwise approximately 270 degrees; V1 came to final rest facing west in northwest corner of intersection, where rear passenger was ejected onto sidewalk. V1 was not equipped with any airbag. The right rear passenger complained of pain and was transported for treatment. V1, according to the Police was to be towed due to damage; after the police departed, V1 was driven from the scene. After impact, V2 rotated clockwise 180 degrees and came to rest in lane three facing east. The driver was not injured and V2 was towed due to damage. Both frontal airbags deployed in V2. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 is coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event is coded as a driver related factor: illegal maneuver.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 is coded: other vehicle encroachment: from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event is not coded to this vehicle.