The crash occurred in the westbound lanes of a six-lane interstate roadway divided by a grass median. There were three westbound lanes and three eastbound lanes with shoulders and rumble strips on each side. The roadway was straight, level, and asphalt with a posted speed limit of 105kph (65mph). The crash occurred on a weekday evening when it was dark (unlit) and traffic flow was very heavy. The crash occurred during a severe lightning and rain storm causing the roadway to be immersed with ponding at various spots.

V1, a 1995 Nissan Altima four-door with one occupant was traveling westbound in lane two. V2, a 1996 Mercury Mystique four-door, with one occupant was westbound in lane one. V3, a 2006 Freightliner conventional semi-tractor pulling a trailer, with one occupant was westbound in lane one behind V2. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A westbound non-contact tractor-trailer splashed standing water onto the windshield of V1. V1 then veered to the right and sideswiped the left front of V2 with the right back of V1. V2 decelerated suddenly and the driver of V3 saw the first impact and steered left and struck the left rear of V2 causing it to rotate slightly clockwise and veer to the right shoulder and eventually off the right side of the road. V3 then struck the right front of V1 causing it to rotate counter-clockwise and to veer to the left across lanes two and three. V1 came to rest on the left should facing east. V2 came to rest facing west off the right side of the road in grass. V3 veered to the right onto the shoulder. While the tractor braked with lock-up in a straight line, the trailer yawed to the right and went off the road on the right side. The driver of V3 was able to brake and regain control of V3 safely without a jack-knife or rollover event and came to rest westbound on the right shoulder.

V1, the Nissan Altima, was driven by a 39-year old male who was not injured. He reported that he was traveling cross country from one state to another traveling 72-80kph (45-50mph) in heavy rain in lane one. When another vehicle splashed standing water onto his windshield obscuring his vision. He claimed that two other cars in the lane to his right struck his. This contradicted his claim that he was in lane one; indicating that he was really in lane two as verified by the statement of the driver of V3 and the evidence of the damage to V1 and V2. The driver stated that one car hit him from behind on the right front and V2 hit him from behind on the right rear. The driver was very confused during his conversation with the researcher; he did not recall V3 just two other cars that hit his.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle lost control due to traveling too fast for conditions (a combination of the heavy traffic with the heavy rain and immersed roadway). The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was driver related, too fast to be able to respond to the unexpected actions of others. He was not expecting his vision to be obscured by the water from the other vehicle. Associated factors coded for this vehicle included a combination of insufficient steering and braking after the water splashed on his vehicle, the weather - heavy rain with standing water, and other sudden change in ambient conditions - the splashing of the standing water onto V1's windshield.

V2, the Mercury Mystique, was driven by a 23-year old male who was not injured. He also was traveling across country from one state to another at a speed of 64-80kph, (40-50mph) in lane two. He said a vehicle in front of his spun out of control causing him to decelerate and swerve to the right to avoid it. He did not recall hitting that vehicle or being hit by another vehicle. He advised that he felt something hit him from behind causing him to rotate clockwise and he went off the road to the right. This driver was also confused about his original travel lane. Damage evidence and the statement of the driver of V3 indicate that he was in fact in lane one.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from the same direction over the left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle. The weather, heavy rain, was coded as an associated factor for V2.

V3, the Freightliner, tractor-trailer was driven by a 42-year old male who was not injured. He advised that he was westbound in lane one on his regular weekly route across the same roadway traveling 80-97kph (50-60mph). He said although it was raining very hard he had an unobstructed view of traffic ahead of him and that he was behind V2. He added that V1 was in the center lane also ahead of him. The driver said he saw V1 rear-end V2 causing it to rotate to the left while V1 spun to the right. He advised that the vehicles were together in front of his and he drove to the left between them striking both with the front end of his vehicle. He said his vehicle then veered to the right shoulder where the trailer went off the roadway. He said he was able to regain control and pulled over onto the right shoulder. Once again, evidence shows that this driver's depiction was somewhat flawed in his description of the rotation directions of V1 and V2 being inaccurate. The damage evidence indicates otherwise.

V3 was not involved in the first critical event so it was not coded for the pre-crash event or reason. The weather, heavy rain, was coded as an associated factor for V3.