This two-vehicle collision occurred at a four-leg intersection. Both roadways are dry, level, asphalt have a left turn lanes. South of the intersection there are five-lanes including a left and right-turn lane for northbound traffic. North of the intersection the road narrows for northbound traffic to one lane and three southbound lanes including a left turn lane. On the east side of the intersection there are three westbound lanes including a left turn pocket and two eastbound lanes with a bike lane. West of the intersection there are two westbound lanes, three eastbound lanes including a left turn lane and bike lanes on both sides. The roadways have a speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The intersection is controlled by a tri-light signal that was working properly at the time. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Saturn Ion was westbound in the second lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Landrover Freelander was northbound in the second lane. As V1 crossed through the intersection, the front plane of V2 impacted the left plane of V1. V1 headed northwest. The left rear plane of V1 was impacted again by V2's front plane. Vehicle one continued northwest where it impacted a light pole on the northwest corner. V1 came to rest in the intersection facing northwest near the northwest curb in the crosswalk area. V2, after the first impact, rotated counter clockwise and headed northwest. V2 came to rest facing south in the north crosswalk area. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-eight year old female, was not interviewed. The police report has an extensive discussion of this driver taken at the medical facility. This driver has schizophrenia. She takes drugs normally prescribed for high blood pressure. She has some hearing impairment. This driver was taking Elavil, Clozapine, Clonazepam and Propanolol. This driver also stated that she had a few glasses of wine. This driver was unable to be interviewed.

The driver of V2, a thirty-four year old female, refused the interview.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over [passing through] intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: type of driver error unknown.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.