This two-vehicle crash occurred in a three-legged, uncontrolled intersection. The east/west roadway is undivided, straight and has two lanes in each direction. The eastbound approach has a 2% uphill grade and the westbound approach has a 8% downhill grade. The speed limit on this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). The intersecting roadway is on the north side of the east/west roadway. It was dark with streetlights on at the time of the crash and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Honda 1500cc motorcycle, was eastbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1987 Chevrolet Celebrity, was westbound in lane two. V1 turned left (north) in the intersection and the right side was struck by the front of V2. V1 slid on its left side to final rest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a seventy-one-year-old male, was fatally injured in the crash. His wife was interviewed. She was not present at the time of the crash but stated that he had been driving this motorcycle often for the past seven years and traveled on this roadway daily. She also stated that this driver had a heart condition and took aspirin daily. The autopsy revealed that this driver had a BAC of 0.041. His medical report indicated that he had been on medication for high blood pressure as well as Zocor, but had stopped taking them six months prior to the crash. According to the autopsy, the cause of death was multiple blunt force traumas.

The driver of V2, an eighteen-year-old male, was traveling with a seventeen-year-old male passenger, from a school function to a restaurant to meet friends. This driver was well rested, healthy and stated that he was comfortable with his vehicle. He also stated that he was comfortable with his passenger and that they were discussing the location of the restaurant prior to the crash. He had just gotten his regular driver's license the day prior to the crash; he had a provisional license for one year. This driver stated that he did not see V1 prior to the crash; he claimed that V1 did not have a turn signal or the headlights on at the time.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: type of driver error unknown.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was not coded to this vehicle.