A single vehicle night collision occurred on a Friday. The collision occurred on a transition roadway from an eastbound state highway to a southbound interstate highway. The transition roadway is one-way, concrete road with a positive grade that curves to the right and consists of three lanes. Asphalt shoulders border both the north and south edges of the transition. Adjacent to the south shoulder exists a raised asphalt curb. South of the curb exists a dirt and brush upgrade embankment. The transition has a warning sign indicating the danger of loss of control. The transition roadway has a posted advisory speed of 97 kmph (60 mph). It was raining at the time of the collision and the roadway was wet.

Vehicle one (V1) is a 1995 Chevrolet Cavalier, two-door coupe, traveling in the number two lane. V1 lost control as it negotiated the curve. V1 rotated clockwise as it traveled towards the south edge of the transition. The left rear wheel of V1 contacted the raised asphalt curb. V1 continued traveling until contacting the dirt embankment with its right plane. As V1 continued to rotate its front plane impacted an unknown signpost before V1 came to rest on the embankment facing northbound partially on the shoulder. V1 suffered major damage and was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1.

The driver of vehicle one is an 18-year-old female traveling with a 19-year-old male. The driver was traveling between 88 kmph (55 mph) to 97 kmph (65 mph) as she negotiated the curve. The driver had her wipers on as she traveled in the rain. The driver suffers from acne for which she takes Doxycycline. She also takes birth control pills. The driver has only been driving for two years. She rarely drives through the collision area. In fact, the driver stated this was probably only the second or third time she had driven through the area. She bought the vehicle two to three months ago. The driver stated that it was drizzling lightly as she entered the transition. She stated that she was not speeding because other vehicles were passing her. She stated that the curve "came up fast." . Upon inspection of the vehicle all four tires were 69 KPA (10 PSI) under-inflated below the recommended inflation pressure. The reduction in pressure would have a negative affect on handling capabilities on a wet road while negotiating a curve.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event was coded: This Vehicle Traveling - Off the Edge of the Road on the Right Side. The Critical Reason was assigned as a driver related factor: Too Fast for Conditions (specified as: traveling too fast on a wet roadway with under-inflated tires). This coding was chosen over Too fast for Curve because the condition of the under-inflated tires on the wet road impacted the handling capabilities of her vehicle while other vehicles were able to successfully negotiate the same curve while traveling faster than this vehicle.