This two vehicle crash occurred early evening during daylight hours. The location was a busy T-intersection in a residential area. The north/south roadway was a five lane, two way, undivided, bituminous arterial with a center turn only lane. The westbound roadway was a two way, undivided street with no centerline. The arterial was protected by passive stop signs. The weather conditions were cloudy and dry. It was daylight with no visibility problems. The posted speed limit for the arterial is 72 kmph (45 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Ford Ranger 4X2 pickup driven by a 32 year-old female with one passenger, was stopped westbound at the stop sign waiting for traffic to clear to turn left to southbound. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Dodge Dakota SUV driven by a 45 year-old male, was traveling north in the second lane approaching the intersection. The driver of V1 checked traffic in both directions then entered the roadway crossing the northbound lanes. As V1 reached the inside lane V2 struck the left side front. On impact V1 rotated clockwise approximately 30 degrees and came to rest facing west in the southbound lanes. V2 rotated counterclockwise coming to rest facing northwest in the center turn lane. Both vehicle's were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 had only been a licensed driver for one week before the crash. She had no formal driver training and this was the first time driving this vehicle and her first time driving on this roadway. The driver had just completed eight straight days working 10-hour shifts. She is in good health and does not take any medications.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see). Driver inexperience was a contributing factor for V1, as were the congested traffic and unfamiliarity with the vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded:other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction.