This two-vehicle crash occurred on a five-lane asphalt constructed roadway with a center painted left turn lane. At the area of this crash the roadway curves right for northbound travel. This crash occurred during daylight with no adverse weather and no obvious defects. The speed limit on the roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph). On the west side of this roadway is large electric marquee that displays messages and time of the day and temperature to passing motorists.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1993 Toyota pickup was northbound in the first travel lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 John Deere tractor was northbound in the first lane ahead of V1. The front of V1 impacted the rear of V2. V2 rotated and rolled over one quarter turn and came to rest on its left side. V1 was towed due to damage. V2 was not towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, an eighty-two year old female was heading from church to home. This driver had been driving for about ten minutes at the time of the crash. This driver indicated that she was hurrying home to get some lunch and then head back to church. This driver indicated that she normally drives this way on Sundays when she heads home to eat and then heads back to church. This driver indicated that as she was traveling she looked to the left side of the road at a restaurant's sign and was reading the messages. This driver indicated that she never saw V2 until it was too late. This driver was taking vitamins as a medication. This driver received eight hours of sleep the previous night and fatigue is not considered a factor. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.

The driver of V2, a forty-six year old male was transporting this tractor from his home to a job site. This driver had been driving for about twenty-five minutes at the time of the crash. This driver indicated that he was driving at the top speed of the tractor about 29 kmph (18 mph). This driver works as a fireman and works a 48 hours on and 48 hours off schedule. This driver was in an off cycle. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with lower steady speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: external distraction.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.