This two-vehicle crash occurred on the westbound lanes of a four-lane highway. The concrete highway is level, starts out straight as three lanes and then curves left and consists of four lanes in the pre-crash direction of travel. The road was dry and the sky was cloudy. It was dark, but lit with overhanging lights. An asphalt shoulder borders the north edge of the highway. North of the asphalt shoulder exists a downgrade dirt embankment. The south edge of the highway is bordered by an asphalt median. South of the asphalt median exists a metal/wood guardrail. The guardrail separates the westbound lanes from the eastbound lanes. The highway is designated a 104 kmph (65 mph) zone.

Vehicle one, a 1988 Mazda RX-7 was westbound in the number one lane. Vehicle two, a 1989, Honda Accord was westbound in the number four lane. As vehicle two was traveling, it traveled across all lanes towards vehicle one. The front plane of vehicle two contacted the rear plane of vehicle one. Vehicle two rotated clockwise as it skidded off the highway's north edge. The rear plane of vehicle two contacted the dirt downgrade embankment as it rotated towards its final rest. Vehicle one rotated counter-clockwise as it came to rest facing westbound in the number one lane. Vehicle two came to rest facing eastbound on the north edge embankment. Vehicle one was driven from the scene. Vehicle two was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a forty-two year old male was commuting home from work. This driver had been driving for about thirty minutes at the time of the collision. The driver had changed lanes to the number one lane from the number two-lane about a quarter of a mile prior to the collision. The driver stated he did not see the other vehicle approaching. He suddenly felt an impact to his rear plane. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a twenty-two year old male was heading home from a party at a friends house. Unfortunately, the driver denied being behind the wheel during the on-scene investigation. The driver and passenger stated that they were in the number four-lane when the vehicle traveled across all of the lanes. They both claimed that the vehicle's brakes failed and that the driver was changing lanes to the right. The "driver" wanted to exit the highway as soon as possible because of the unresponsive brakes. The skids on the highway contradict the brake failure claim. The driver and passenger stated that a third occupant was actually driving the vehicle. They both stated that the driver was someone they met at a friend's home. They were merely getting a ride from him to their homes. There was no evidence of a third occupant. The driver of vehicle two was not licensed.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane: traveling in same direction with higher speed". The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as "not coded to this vehicle". The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded "this vehicle traveling: over the lane line on the right side of the travel lane." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to vehicle two and was coded as a driver related factor: "poor directional control (e.g. failing to control vehicle with skill ordinarily expected)".