This crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a four-lane roadway divided by a grass median. There were two southbound lanes and two northbound lanes. This was a level concrete roadway that curved slightly to the left with a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). It was mid afternoon on a weekday, the roadway was dry, and conditions were clear. Traffic flow was moderate with a construction zone merge point in the right-hand southbound lane.

V1, a 2005 Saturn Ion four-door driven by 20-year old female, was traveling southbound in lane two behind V2. V2, a 2006 Jeep Grand Cherokee driven by a 56-year old male, was also traveling southbound in lane two. Two vehicles from lane one quickly changed lanes in front of V2 due to a construction lane merge point in lane one. According to the drivers of V1 and V2, the sign to merge was not placed at a sufficient distance from the merge point to properly react to it. When the other vehicles changed lanes, the driver of V2 applied his brakes hard. The driver of V1 also applied her brakes. The driver of V1 stated that she had been daydreaming and was not able to react fast enough to avoid the collision. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was inattention (daydreaming). Had the driver been paying more attention to the roadway, she would have been able to better observe the traffic pattern and possibly avoid the accident by leaving more room between her and V2 or recognizing the change in traffic flow earlier. The driver's inattention could also be related to the small amount of sleep that she had received the previous night. Associated factors coded to this driver include failing to look far enough ahead, following too closely, and the roadway construction zone.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre=crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to this driver were an unfamiliarity with the vehicle (he had only driven it 2-5 times in the last three months), and the roadway construction zone.