This two-vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane roadway. This road is straight and level with a parking lane on the east side. The speed limit on this road is 40 kmph (25 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Chevrolet Prizm was southbound in the first lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Honda Accord was northbound in the first lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 1996 Toyota Tacoma was parked northbound just north of a driveway. As V1 made a left turn into an apartment building's driveway, the front plane of V1 contacted the left plane of V2. The front plane of V2 then proceeded to contact the rear plane of a parked vehicle, V3. V1 came to rest facing southeast at impact. V2 came to rest facing northbound along the east curb. V1 suffered moderate damage and was driven from the scene. V2 suffered moderate damage and was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, an eighty-four year old male was traveling from his home to the home of his grandson. This driver had been driving for about twenty minutes at the time of the crash. The driver was wearing eyeglasses for a myopic condition. The driver takes three medications: Aspirin (all brands), calcium supplements, and an unspecified cholesterol medication. The driver stretches for ten minutes every morning and walks at least half a mile a week. The driver has no driver training. The driver claimed he saw the other vehicle approaching and believed he could make the turn into the driveway. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis. This driver was turning into the driveway to turn around and look for a parking spot.

The driver of V2, a twenty-four year old female was commuting to work from her mother's home. This driver had been driving for about ten minutes at the time of the crash. The driver was listening to the radio as she was traveling. The driver stated the other driver turned in front of her without any warning and without stopping. This driver drives this vehicle daily over this road on a weekly basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.