This two-vehicle intersection crash occurred in the early morning hours on a 6-lane asphalt constructed roadway, with a center painted two-way left turn lane. The roadway runs east and west at this location. The posted speed limit is 89 kmph (55 mph). The eastbound lanes curve right. This crash occurred during daylight with no adverse weather conditions. There was bright morning sun present at the time of the crash. There is a business driveway on the north side of this roadway.

Vehicle one (V1), a light gray/silver 1982 Pontiac Firebird 2 door hatchback, occupied by the 18 year old male driver and one female passenger was eastbound and entered the center turn lane to turn left into the business entrance. V1 entered the center turn lane and slowed to almost a stop; then proceeded to cross the westbound traffic lane. At this time of day, the sun was just starting to rise and was blinding the driver. The driver used the vehicle sunshade to block the sun, but could not clearly see the roadway and traffic. As the driver started to cross the westbound lane three the passenger yelled "watch out, a car"; but the warning was too late and V1 was impacted on the front by vehicle two (V2). V2, a light blue 1974 International half-ton pickup, was westbound in the travel lane three when the front impacted V2. V1 came to rest facing northeast across the number three westbound lane and the two-way left turn lane. V2 came to rest facing generally west in the number 3 westbound lane. The driver of V1 complained of lower back pain and was transported for treatment. The 18 year-old female occupant was slightly injured and also transported to a hospital by personal vehicle. Both occupants were treated and released the same day. The 50 year-old male driver of V2 was not injured and did not seek any treatment . V1 was towed from the scene while V2 was driven. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 was taking his passenger to work. He entered the two way left turn lane to attempt the left turn. Glare from the early morning sun prevented a clear field of vision for the driver. He attempted to block the glare by lowering the sun visor but was unsuccessful. The critical pre-crash event was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason was coded as an environment related factor: glare. The driver was attentive and tried to block the glare but failed.

The driver of V2 stated that he saw the car in the center turn lane and thought the driver would yield and not cut across in front of him. When V1 entered his traffic lane he applied the brakes. The critical pre-crash event was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction-over left lane line. A critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.