A four vehicle daytime collision occurred shortly after noon on a Saturday. The collision occurred in the four northbound lanes of a divided highway, in lane two. The pre-crash roadway for both vehicles is a straight and level, concrete roadway. The roadway has a posted speed limit of 97 kmph (60 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Chevrolet G-30 1-ton Coach Conversion van, was behind vehicle two (V2). V2, a 1995 Jeep Cherokee 4-door SUV was behind vehicle three (V3). V3, a 2002 Honda CRV 4 door, was behind vehicle four (V4), a 1992 Toyota Previa minivan. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V4 was traveling northbound in lane two ahead of V3, when V4 came to a fast stop. Apparently an uninvolved vehicle, a 2005 Ford F-150 pick-up truck, dropped a piece of furniture from the bed of the truck. This chair was not secured properly and traveled into the number two travel lane. The driver of V4 came to a sudden stop and avoided contacting the chair. V3 and V2 decelerated behind V4 nearly to a stop. The driver of vehicle one applied a full ABS application in an attempt to avoid the collision, however the front of V1 impacted the rear of V2. V2 was pushed forward impacting the rear of V3. The front of V3 impacted the rear of V4. V1, V2, V3 were all towed due to damage. V4 was driven from the scene.

The driver of V1 is a 70-year-old male that was traveling home from working with his brother, he had traveled 201 kilometers (125 miles), and he was not in a hurry. There were several car lengths between him and the forward vehicle; all vehicles were traveling at a constant velocity when traffic in front of him came to a fast stop. He did not realize caution was required and was keeping up with traffic under the assumption it would continue to proceed. His view of the chair was obstructed because from the vehicles in front of him and he did not realize it was present in the travel lane. He is retired, and reported being in good health. He does take lovastatin for cholesterol, and terososin for an enlarged prostate, levathroid for a thyroid imbalance, ½ an aspirin daily, and multivitamins. He had spent the night in his camper he was driving, and had about 7.5 hours of sleep. He is familiar with the roadway as he drives it monthly. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was assigned to this vehicle as a driver related factor: too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others (specified as: forward traffic slowed very quickly because a chair had fallen from a vehicle into the travel lane).

The driver of V2 is an 81 year-old male that was traveling from home, heading to a birthday party with his son and granddaughter. He was traveling about 93 kmph (58 mph), and there were 4-5 car lengths between him and the forward vehicle. He had traveled about 80 kilometers (50 miles), and is familiar with the roadway as he drives it several times a month. He takes Tolbutemide for his diabetes, which is completely under control. He was well rested with 8 hours of sleep at home. They were not in a hurry, as they had plenty of time to get to the party. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V3 is a 28 year-old female whose pre-crash factors are unknown. V3 was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle.