This three-vehicle collision occurred in the evening on a weeknight. The crash occurred on a straight, level stretch of a dry, five-lane, two-way, bituminous roadway. In the area of the crash, there are two northbound lanes, and three southbound lanes, including a left-turn-only lane. The speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph) in both directions. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Mitsubishi Galant 4-door sedan, was traveling northbound in the second lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Volkswagen GTI 2-door hatchback, was traveling ahead of V1 in the same lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 2001 Honda Civic 2-door coupe, was traveling behind V1 in the same lane. An unmarked vehicle with activated police flashers and siren was traveling southbound and approaching all three vehicles. V2 applied the brakes and was decelerating. V1 applied the brakes and veered left partially into the median, and the front of V1 impacted the back of V2, bringing V1 to a sudden stop. Then the front of V3 impacted the back of V1. All three vehicles came to rest in the northbound lanes. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 22-year-old male driver of V1 reported that he saw the emergency lights of the unmarked car in the opposing lanes, and he saw the car in front of him slow suddenly. He reported that he tried to avoid the collision by applying his brakes and veering left, but was unable to avoid V2. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related decision error, following too closely to respond to unexpected actions.

The 25-year-old male driver of V2 reported that he saw the emergency light of the unmarked car in the opposing lane and tried to come to an immediate stop. He thought first that he should pull over to the right, but traffic to his right prevented that. Before he was fully stopped, his back end was impacted by V1's front. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.

The 21-year-old female driver of V3 was traveling with a passenger. She has a myopic condition (near sighted) but does not have a restriction on her license. She says she feels sick quite often and has a hard time waking up in the morning. She saw the emergency lights of the unmarked car in the opposing lane and applied the brakes, but was unable to avoid impacting the back of V1. No critical precrash event was coded for V3, as she was not involved in the first harmful event.