This three-vehicle mid-morning crash occurred on a seven-lane southbound concrete expressway with no traffic control device. There was a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph) and a concrete jersey barrier separating southbound lanes from northbound lanes, which were not a factor in this crash. The number one and two lanes become a two-lane exit ramp to the right in the pre-crash area and beyond that point the number of travel lanes is five. At the time of the crash the road is concrete, dry, and congested with heavy traffic. The skies were clear and there were no sight restrictions or road defects.

Vehicle one (V 1), a white 1998 International 4700 Straight truck was in lane one of the expressway going approximately 56 kph (35 mph). The driver, a 35-year old male, was conversing with his two passengers, Vehicle two (V 2), a 2002 Honda CRV SUV, driven by a 64 year-old male was stopped in lane one for congested traffic. Vehicle three (V 3), a 2003 Mitsubishi Galant 4-door, driven by a 20 year-old female with one passenger was in front of V 2 in lane one and was also stopped for congested traffic. V 1 had closed to a short distance behind V 2 before recognizing the stopped traffic and braked and steered right as avoidance maneuvers but was unable to avoid a frontal event with the back of V 2, which was propelled forward so that the front of V 2 and back of V 3 collided. V 2 was towed due to damage; V 1 and V 3 were driven from the crash scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V 1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event coded as a driver related recognition error: Inattention. This was due to the driver conversing with his two passengers and did not notice stopped traffic ahead in time to bring V 1 to a safe stop.

The critical pre-crash event for V 2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V 3 was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.