The crash occurred at the intersection of a two-way, four lane, undivided roadway and a two-way, four lane, undivided roadway. All four legs of the intersection were controlled by stop signs. Both roads were dry, traveled, level asphalt. The posted speed limit was 48 kmph (30 mph)Traffic was light at the time of the accident. There were no adverse weather conditions. The collision occurred late in the morning on a sunny, clear day.

Vehicle one (V 1), a 1995 Ford Windstar, was driven by a 49 year-old female with one passenger was traveling westbound in the second travel lane and entered the intersection. Vehicle two (V 2), a 1997 Plymouth Voyager, was driven by a 56 year-old female. It was northbound in the second travel lane and entered the intersection after stopping for the stop sign. Vehicle three (V 3), a 1986 Buick LeSabre, was driven by a 26 year-old male was stopped at the stop sign southbound in the second travel lane. V 1 entered the intersection and it's front impacted with the right side of V 2. V 1 rotated clockwise and it's front struck the front of V 3. V 1 came to rest facing northwest in the intersection. V 2 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest facing northwest in the intersection. V 3 came to rest at the point of impact facing south in the intersection. V 1 and V 2 were towed from the scene, no reported injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V 1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. Critical reason was a driver related recognition error: inattention. The driver was conversing with the passenger and did not pay full attention to the driving task. She failed to stop for the stop sign. The driver was going home from her mother-in-law's house due to a funeral after driving 161-kilometers (100 miles) for this trip. Fatigue was a factor for this driver

The critical pre-crash event for V 2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. This driver takes the medication Aleve. This driver assumed that the driver of V1 would yield the right-of-way.

V 3 was not involved in the first harmful event.