The crash occurred in the evening of a holiday weekend in the southbound lanes of a divided (raised concrete median) urban roadway. The bituminous roadway featured four lanes with lane four serving as a left-turn only lane and a posted speed limit of 64kmph (40 mph). The roadway was dry, straight, and level. The were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash and the sun was still out, but the traffic flow was interrupted due to a previous crash in lane one of the southbound lanes.

V1, a 2000 Ford Crown Victoria (which served as a taxi cab), was southbound in lane two traveling the speed limit. V2, a 2004 Ford F-250, was also southbound in lane two ahead of V1. V3, an unknown vehicle, was stopped in lane two ahead of V2. As V2 stopped abruptly behind V3, V1 was unable to stop in time and contacted the rear of V2. V2 was subsequently pushed into the back of V3. All vehicles came to final rest in the lane two slightly south of the point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by 33 year-old male who worked as a taxi cab driver and was on duty at the time of the crash. He said he was traveling in lane two when the truck in front of him (V2) suddenly slammed on his brakes. The driver stated he in turn applied his brakes but could not avoid hitting V2. Neither the driver nor passenger in V1 were injured but V1 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded other vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The Critical Reason was coded as a driver related factor of driver inattention. In addition to the driver inattention factor, the presence of a previous crash nearby was also coded as an associated factor for V1.

V2 was driven by a 29 year-old male who was on his way home after dining out. He stated in the interview that he was looking to the right at a previous crash that had just occurred before the crash. When he finally looked forward he saw V3 stopped in front of him and he slammed on the brakes, just barely avoiding V3. Shortly there after he was struck from behind by V1 and pushed into V3. The driver was not injured and he was able to drive V2 from the scene.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason was not coded to this driver. Some associative factors related this driver was that he was here for only a few weeks and was unfamiliar with the roadway. He was also focusing his attention on the crash to his right thus, causing the quick stop in front of the taxicab.

V3 left the scene shortly after it came to final rest and was neither the vehicle nor the driver were able to be located. The Critical Precrash Event for V3 was coded as other, not involved in the first harmful event. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Other than the presence of a prior crash nearby there were no known associated factors coded to V3.