This crash involving three vehicles occurred mid-afternoon at an intersection with traffic lights. The speed limit for the roadways is 64 kmph (40 mph) for the southbound lanes and 72 kmph (45 mph) for the eastbound lanes. The road is a 4-lane straight, divided (no positive barrier) concrete roadway in both directions. The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V 1), 1996 Toyota Camry was driven by a 66 year-old male. It was traveling north in the second lane. Vehicle two (V 2) was a 2004 Chevrolet Cargo Van. It was driven by a 30 year-old male and was traveling east in the first lane of traffic. Vehicle three (V 3) was a 2002 Chevrolet Impala driven by a 49 year-old male with one passenger. It was traveling east in the second lane. V 1 was approaching the intersection of both roadways. The light for V 1 was red. The lights for V 2 and 3 turned green moments prior to the crash. Within the intersection the front of V 1 impacted with the right side of V 2. V 2 rotated counter clockwise and moved into lane 2. V 1 rotated clockwise after the impact, and its left rear corner side slapped with the right rear corner of V 2. V 1 came to rest within the intersection, facing northeast. V 3 impacted the left side of V 2 in a sideswipe type collision. Both vehicles came to rest within the intersection. V 1 and 2 were towed from the scene. V 3 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event driver related recognition factor: external distraction. The driver told the researcher during the interview he was looking at a business in northeast corner of the intersection. The business was to the right, and V2 and V3 were coming from his left. He was also thinking about a medical appointment he was on his way to. He has sleep apnea.

The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason not coded to this vehicle.

The V 3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason not coded to this vehicle.