This two vehicle crash occurred mid-afternoon during daylight hours at the intersection of a four-lane (seven overall), east-west roadway divided by a concrete median and a four-lane (seven overall), north-south roadway divided by a concrete median. The intersection was controlled with tri-color traffic signals. The east-west roadway was straight, concrete with a posted speed of 56 kph (35 mph) and +3.3% grade. The north-south roadway was straight, level concrete with a posted speed of 56 kph (35 mph). the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was light.

Vehicle one (V 1), a 1994 Ford Tempo coupe driven by a 19 year-old female was traveling eastbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V 2), a 2005 Lexus ES330 sedan driven by a 19 year-old male was traveling southbound in lane two. V 1 entered the intersection and was struck on the left side by the front of V 2. V 1 rotated counterclockwise and continued on its path of travel. V 1 came to rest in the first travel lane east of the intersection facing southeast. V 2 continued on its path of travel and the driver directed the vehicle to final rest in the third travel lane south of the intersection. The driver of V 1 stated that she was on her way home from a friend's. She advised that he was traveling at between 48-64 kph (30-40 mph) when she recognized that V 2 was not going to stop. She steered to the right in an attempt to avoid the collision, but was unsuccessful. The driver of V 2 advised that he was on his way to a friend's from home. He advised that he was traveling at between 48-64 kph (30-40 mph) when he recognized that V 1 was not going to stop. He applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid the collision, but was unsuccessful. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical event for V 1 coded other vehicle encroachment from crossing street across path. Critical reason not coded to this vehicle.

The critical event for V 2 coded this vehicle traveling crossing over passing through intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded driver related factor "inadequate surveillance".

Associated factor for V 2 that he did not see V 1 until he was entering the intersection. This is a controlled intersection and both drivers claimed green light.