This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-way traffic signal controlled intersection. On the east and west sides of the intersection, the roadway is undivided and the traffic lanes consist of a left turn lane, a through lane, and a right turn lane for each direction of travel. This roadway is straight and level, with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred at night; there was moderate traffic flow.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Chevrolet Lumina with four occupants, was stopped at the intersection, eastbound in lane three, the left turn lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Ford Windstar van with a single occupant, was westbound in lane two, approaching the intersection. The traffic signal indicated a green light for both directions of travel and the driver of V1 proceeded to make a left turn. The driver of V2 applied the brakes, but the right side of V1 struck the front of V2. V1 continued its left turn and drove to a controlled stop, facing north in lane one on the north side of the intersection. V2 came to final rest facing west-northwest on the northwest curb of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a sixteen-year-old male, was driving with three of his friends from a basketball game at their school and was on the way to another friend's house. He had been cruising with his friends for about forty-five minutes before the time of the crash. He stated that he looked, but didn't see V2 at all prior to the collision. The other occupants of the car distracted the driver; he was talking to them and not paying close attention to the driving detail. This inattentiveness and driver inexperience are considered associative factors.

The driver of V2, a forty-two-year-old female, was driving to pick up her son. She stated that she applied the brakes, but was unable to avoid the crash. She did not provide any further information.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as: this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see). The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction, over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.