This two-vehicle crash occurred mid-block several hundred feet before the intersection. The roadway consists of one westbound and one eastbound undivided lanes. Planted in the center lane were two sets of active metal trolley tracks. This wide center section used for east/westbound trolleys is also used as a turning lane for vehicles approaching the intersection. The posted speed limit for this roadway was 56 kmph (35 mph). The roadway was level, dry, and there were no adverse weather conditions. There were no traffic controlled devices at this mid-block point. The crash occurred in the late afternoon daylight hours. The traffic flow was normal for this roadway.

Vehicle 1, a 1998 Volvo, was traveling westbound in lane two also used for trolleys, vehicle 2, a 2001 Volkswagen Cabrio was traveling westbound in lane one. V2 made a U-turn in front of V1, V1's front contacted V2's left side. After the initial impact, vehicle one rotated slightly clockwise traveled a few feet where it came to final rest continuing to face westward. Vehicle two, after being struck by V1 continued traveling jumped the slightly raised curb on the south side of the roadway where it came to final rest a couple of feet before the concrete wall where it came to final rest facing southward. Vehicle two damages were disabling and it was towed. Vehicle one damages were moderate and it was not towed. According to both drivers there were no view obstructions. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a 38-year old male, said he was traveling westbound in lane two the center lane when a vehicle also traveling westbound in lane one cut in front of his vehicle and although he slammed on his brakes, he was unable to avoid contacting the left side of V2. The center lane is used for the trolleys and for turning at the intersection. However the intersection was several hundred feet from the point of impact. When asked why he didn't see V2 traveling in lane one to his right, he said he was so focused on his intended destination he didn't notice V2. He was also asked if the center lane is also used for turning at the intersection, why was he traveling in it several hundred feet before the intersection? His reply was he was getting a jump start and cutting through the busy traffic. He was not sure of the speed limit, however, said he was traveling within the speed limit. He was listening to the radio. He slept seven hours in the past 24-hours. He normally sleeps 8 hours in a 24-hour period. However, he said he was not tired. He travels on this roadway daily and said he knows how to cut in and out of traffic. He was transported to the hospital by medics with minor injuries.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event was coded “other motor vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane (same direction) - over the right lane line”. The Critical Reason was “not coded to this vehicle”. Associated factors for this driver include: possible fatigue, he slept seven hours in the past twenty-four hour, normally he sleeps eight hours.

The driver of V2, a 19-year old female, said she'd left the zoo a few minutes ago and got on the road to go home. She was traveling westbound in lane one and at the same time she and her passenger were trying to determine if they were going in the right direction. At some point they realized they were traveling in the wrong direction. She decided to make a u-turn. I asked why didn't she see V1 in the center lane? She said, she saw V1 in the center lane and thought it was completely stopped. V1 must have been speeding because one minute it was several feet back and the next minute it contacted her vehicle's left side. I asked why she thought V1 was stopped and she said because it was so far back she couldn't tell. She was traveling approximately 64 kmph (40 mph) just slightly over the speed limit. She had no idea what the speed limit was for the roadway. It was her first time on this roadway. She lives two hours away. Neither she nor her passenger were injured.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event was coded “other - making a u-turn”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was coded a “inadequate surveillance”. Associated factors for this driver include: misjudgment of the velocity of the other, vehicle's speed. She thought the other vehicle had come to a complete stop. Proceeding with insufficient clearance. Inexperience driver, she's only been a license driver for two years. This was her first time on this roadway.