This five-vehicle crash occurred on a straight, level, divided, access-controlled roadway that has a 5% uphill grade. The speed limit on this roadway is 97 kmph (60 mph). It was dawn on at the time of the crash and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions. The traffic was congested due to the morning rush hour.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Buick LeSabre, was westbound in lane three and changed lanes into lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Ford Econoline van, was westbound in lane two in front of V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 2005 GMC Yukon, was in front of V2, vehicle four (V4), a 1991 Chevrolet K1500 pickup, was in front of V3 and vehicle five (V5), a 1995 Ram van, was in front of V4. V2, V3, V4 and V5 came to a stop. The front of V1 struck the back of V2. V2 moved forward and the front struck the back of V3. V3 moved forward and the front struck the back of V4. V4 moved forward and the front struck the back of V5. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a fifty-nine-year-old female, was traveling from her home to work. She was well rested, in fairly good health and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver has high blood pressure and high cholesterol, for which she takes unspecified medications. She also takes Zoloft. This driver stated that she had changed lanes into lane two in anticipation of moving into lane one to exit the roadway at the next exit. She further stated that she looked down at the odometer and when she looked up, she realized that the other vehicles had stopped. She applied the brakes but was unable to stop in time to avoid the crash.

The driver of V2, a fifty-seven-year-old male, was traveling from his home to work. He was healthy, well rested and comfortable with his vehicle. This driver travels this route daily.

The driver of V3, a forty-five-year-old male, was traveling from his home to work. He was well rested, in good health and familiar with his vehicle. This driver travels this route daily.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; other vehicle stopped." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; internal distraction."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."

The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded as "other; not involved first harmful event." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was "not coded to this vehicle."