This two-vehicle crash occurred on a four-lane divided concrete, level roadway with a grass median, controlled by a traffic signal with a pedestrian crossing. This road has a speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one, a 1999 Kia Sephia was westbound in the second lane. Vehicle two, a 2005 Suzuki XL-7 was westbound in the second lane ahead of vehicle one. Vehicle two had just started moving just prior to the crash. The front of vehicle one impacted the rear of vehicle two. Vehicle one deflected and came to rest off the road to the northwest of the crash. Vehicle two deflected and came to rest in the southwest corner. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a twenty-nine year old male had just left a restaurant with the passenger. This driver had been driving for over one half hour at the time of the crash. This driver was taking Lexapro, Depakote and Cephalexin as medications. Medical records indicate that this driver had a BAC of 0.25. In his interview this driver indicated that this was his friend who had too much to drink and he put him in the back seat. This driver indicated that he did not see the other car at all and remembers waking up in the hospital. This driver said he was trying to talk to the passenger as they drove. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a fifty-six year old female was heading home from a car dealership after buying a new car. This driver had been driving for about forty-five minutes at the time of the crash. This driver indicated that she had stopped for the light and started up on the green and got hit from behind. This driver is taking Atenolol, Actos, Baycol, Hyzaar, Metronidazole, Synthroid, Diabet and Zocor as medications. This was the first time this driver had driven this vehicle but she was familiar with the vehicle, as her daughter owns a similar vehicle. This driver drives this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to vehicle one and was coded as a driver related factor: other critical non-performance (specified as: driver passed out from alcohol consumption).

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded: other motor vehicle in lane: other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was not coded to this vehicle.