A two-vehicle collision occurred at dusk on a Tuesday evening in congested rush hour traffic. The collision occurred heading north on a one-lane, one-way freeway off-ramp. The pre-crash roadway is a 4% downhill grade; the area of the crash was straight with bituminous paving and overhead lighting. After the area of the crash the off-ramp curved to the right. At the beginning of the curve tangency is a curve warning sign with an advisory speed limit of 32 kmph (20 mph) posted. At the bottom of the off-ramp were stop signs with "no-left-turn" signs posted at an intersection with a cross street. The posted speed limit for the roadway is 97 kmph (60 mph).

Vehicle 1 (V1), a 2006 Ford Focus 4 door sedan, was traveling north in lane one. Vehicle 2 (V2) a 2002 Kenworth tractor-trailer was traveling north in lane one ahead of V1. V1 approached V2, which had decelerated and then stopped for forward traffic. The front of V1 impacted with the right rear corner of V2. V1 was towed due to damage, and V2 was left at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 25-year-old male who was reportedly in good health with no hearing or sight restrictions. He does have a schizoid effective disorder, which he takes medications for, and he claims it sort of slows him down. The driver takes the following medications: Effexor XR, Risperdal, Klanapam, Lithium, and Prevacid. This was his first time driving this vehicle as it is a loaner car, and he rarely drives on this roadway. He was headed to his aunt's house to pick up his guitar, and take it to the guitar shop. He was well rested, but may have been physically tired as his job is sometimes strenuous. This driver indicated that as he was taking the exit his cell phone with head set rang, making an unusual noise. After answering the call, he told the caller that he would call him right back. He stated he was looking at the cell phone trying to figure out why it had rung with the unusual sound. While looking at the phone he rear-end the trailer of V2 and did not have time to avoid the collision.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event assigned to this driver is a driver related recognition error: Internal distraction. Due to the use of the cell phone the driver's full attention to the driving task was diverted to his cell phone. Due to this inattention, the driver assumed the forward traffic would continue to proceed and did not realize that caution was required and that forward traffic had stopped.

The driver of V2 was a 50-year-old male whose pre-crash factors are unknown, as he was not interviewed. This driver was in possession of a commercial driver's license with unknown endorsements or restrictions. V2's trailer was used to haul solid waste. The rear of the trailer had red/white reflective material across the bottom that was partially worn off. The rear of the trailer also had working brake lights and reflectors. On the back of the trailer is a no-zone sticker that states: "if you can't see my (side) mirrors, I can't see you". Conspicuity was not considered a factor for the rear of V2's trailer, and the investigating officer assigned no violations to the driver or the vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with a higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.