A three-vehicle rear-end collision occurred a couple hours after noon on a Thursday. The collision occurred on an interstate highway. The roadway is a six-lane divided highway with three travel lanes in each direction. The third travel lane is an HOV lane that was terminating. An overhead sign so indicated the termination of the lane. The pre-crash roadway is straight and level with bituminous paving. The weather was clear and the roadway was dry. The posted speed limit for the roadway is 97 kmph (60 mph). Access to the roadway is controlled. Traffic was congested at the time.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Ford Explorer with one occupant, was headed south in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Nissan Titan with one occupant, was ahead of V1 in lane two and slowed for traffic ahead. Vehicle three (V3), a 1998 BMW 540i with one occupant, was traveling southbound ahead of V2 and V1 in lane two, and also was slowing for traffic. The front of V1 hit the rear of V2, and pushed V2 forward into the rear of V3. All three vehicles came to rest in lane two adjacent to the impact point. All three vehicles were moved to the right shoulder after impact. V1 was towed due to damage; V2 and V3 were driven. None of the three occupants were injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 67 year-old male with no hearing restrictions. He is in overall good health and takes lipitor for his cholesterol and toprol for high blood pressure. He does moderate exercise regularly, and he was well rested and familiar with the vehicle and roadway. He was in a hurry on his way to pick up a security badge to start a new job the following day. He was looking up at a sign for the HOV lane termination. As he looked back at traffic ahead of him the cars in front of him had slowed for traffic, and he hit the brakes, and rear-ended the vehicle in front of him. The driver had some concerns since he was starting a new job the next day.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: external distraction.

The driver of V2 is a 79 year-old male whose pre-crash factors are unknown, as he was not interviewed. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling-this vehicle decelerating. A critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle.

The driver of V3 is a 43 year-old male whose pre-crash factors are unknown, as he was not interviewed. V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. A critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.