The crash occurred on a weekday afternoon involving two passenger cars at an intersection with traffic lights. The speed limit for the roadway is 54 kph (35 mph). The north/south road is a 4-lane (in each direction) divided (no positive barrier) concrete roadway for both vehicles. The fourth lane is a left turn lane only with a protected left turn arrow. The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash. Approaching the intersection from the north, the roadway curves to the west with a radius of 348 meters (1141 feet).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Ford Explorer with two occupants, was traveling north in lane four of the northbound lanes attempting a left turn. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Nissan Sentra with one occupant, was traveling south in the third lane, attempting to pass through the intersection. At the intersection, the front of V2 impacted the right side of V1. Both vehicles rotated and moved to the south corner of the intersection where they came to rest. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. The driver of V2 suffered minor injuries and was treated by medical personnel at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 21-year old male drove V1, the 2000 Ford Explorer. He stated the protective left turn arrow was not illuminated when he started his left turn. He did not stop at the intersection and attempted his turn at a low rate of speed. He was heading for a food store located in the northwest corner of the intersection. He said he looked to the north but did not see V2 approaching the intersection. An unlisted witness at the scene said V1 was attempting a U-turn. This witness account could not be recorded by the researcher and was overheard during the interview with the driver of V2, who stated the same fact. The driver is familiar with the vehicle and drives the route daily.

The pre crash movement for V1 was coded “decelerating in traffic lane”. The critical pre crash event was coded “this vehicle traveling-turning left at an intersection”. The critical reason for the critical event was coded “inadequate surveillance.” The driver proceeded with the left turn, despite the fact that he knew it was not protected by a left turn arrow. According to his own account he never stopped at the intersection but slowed down and proceeded with the left turn. He did not detect V2 and therefore attempted no evasive maneuvers

A 24-year old female drove V2, the 2005 Nissan Sentra. The driver was involved in another collision when her vehicle was rear-ended. The incident occurred a few weeks earlier. At the time of this collision, she was driving a rental vehicle. Her mother stated the driver would receive therapy due to a traumatic effect of this crash. She was heading home from her university at the time of the crash. The driver was visibly shaken by the crash events and barely able to speak. She did point out V1 attempted a u-turn but the police officer on location would not understand her. The driver is familiar with the vehicle and the travels the route daily.

The pre-event movement of V2 was coded “negotiating a curve”. The critical pre crash event was coded “other vehicle encroaching into the lane, over the left lane of travel”. No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle.