This two-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours on a weekday morning with congested traffic. The crash occurred at the four-leg intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light traffic signal, and the speed limit is 72 kmph (45 mph) in all directions. Both roadways are divided by a raised median. The northbound lanes are straight and level, and consist of a right turn lane, three through lanes, and two left turn lanes. The eastbound lanes are straight and have a downhill slope, and consist of a right turn lane, a single through lane, and a left turn lane.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Eagle Vision 4-door sedan, was traveling northbound in the third lane, and approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Nissan Altima, was stopped at the intersection facing eastbound in the second lane, and waiting at a red light. The traffic light for eastbound traffic changed to the green phase, and V2 proceeded. In the intersection, the front of V1 impacted the right side of V2. Both vehicles rotated clockwise to final rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

The 47-year-old female driver of V1 reported that as she was approaching the traffic light, the light entered the yellow phase and she attempted to slow, but the brakes failed completely. The physical evidence indicates that she applied the brakes with lockup as she crossed the threshold of the intersection and skidded forward, but was unable to avoid a collision. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. This driver takes the medication Levothroid & vitamins for a thyroid condition. She was on her commute home from work but claimed no interior or exterior distractions. She typically works 14 hours per day & 61 hours per week, so fatigue was considered a factor for this driver. By her statements and other factors it was reasoned she was not paying full attention to the driving task. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related recognition error, inattention (i.e., daydreaming).

The 37-year-old female driver of V2 reported that she had dropped off her children at school and was going home. She was looking at the traffic signal prior to entering the intersection. When the light changed to the green phase, she proceeded without observation of crossing traffic. She never saw the approach of V1. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.