This single vehicle crash occurred on a north/south, rural two-lane undivided roadway. The road was level and curved to the left with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The surface was bituminous and the road was dry. This crash occurred on an overcast weekend morning at dawn with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle 1, a 2001 Lexus LS 430 four-door sedan with one occupant, was traveling south in lane one. V1 was traveling at a high rate of speed, and the driver departed the right side of the roadway while negotiating a left curve. The driver of V1 steered sharply to the left to return to the roadway, but over-corrected, and the vehicle started to yaw counterclockwise. V1 left approximately 40 meters (131 feet) of tire marks on the roadway before departing the road to the left. V1 continued to travel right side leading through a level damp grass field. V1 traveled 72 meters (236 feet) before the vehicle straightened. V1 then traveled 20 meters (65 feet) before the front end contacted an air conditioning unit on the side of a house. V1 rotated clockwise approximately 30 degrees and came to final rest against the air conditioner with disabling front end damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1.

V1 was driven by a 31-year-old male who was a full-time student learning to drive 18-wheelers. His mother provided the surrogate interview because his mouth was wired closed. He exited the car unassisted and acted confused and in pain as he waited for EMS to arrive. The homeowner reported him as looking very tired and not knowing what was happening. The driver had been celebrating his best friend's wedding the night before the crash. After the reception he went back to the groom's house for a party. When morning came, the driver decided to leave the groom's house to go to another friend's house. He borrowed the groom's car, which he drives frequently. After about 20 minutes on the road, the crash occurred. The driver had no recollection of the crash, or any memories of being on that roadway. The mother claimed that the driver had been awake approximately 20 hours prior to the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as overcompensation, a performance error. Two significant associated factors were alcohol intoxication and fatigue. The driver hadn't slept in 20 hours prior to the crash. At the wedding he danced and consumed alcohol, which contributed to his fatigue. Based on scene evidence, it was not believed that the driver fell asleep or passed out at the wheel. Speed was also a factor in the crash. A speed reconstruction indicated that the vehicle was traveling at approximately 90-100 mph prior to the crash sequence. The driver was charged with DWI, and the result of the BAC test as per the medical records was .174. The driver also tested positive for cocaine and cannabinoids.