The crash occurred just before an intersection in a northbound lane of a three-lane roadway. This was a straight, level, and bituminous roadway and had a speed of 72 kmph (45 mph). It was a clear afternoon weekday and the road was dry and the sky was cloudy. Traffic was flowing freely though the roadway was busy.

V1, a 1998 Toyota Corolla four door with three other occupants, was traveling northbound in lane two behind V2. V2, a 2006 Pontiac Vibe four door with driver as only occupant, was stopped in lane two at a red light. While V2 was stopped and waiting for the traffic light to turn green, V1 who had been traveling behind V2, drove directly into the rear of V2. Upon impact V2 was pushed forward approximately one car's length and V1 sat about one car's length behind V2. Officers had V1 moved off of the roadway and V2 was able to drive off the roadway under it own power. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

V1, the 1998 Toyota Corolla, was driven by a 41-year old female who was reported by V2 driver to have had 3 occupants in V1 at the time of the crash and that all occupants left the scene immediately following impact. V1 driver did not speak English and was evaluated by emergency personnel on-scene. The driver did not have any noticeable injuries and remained with her vehicle until someone showed up to tow V1. Many attempts were made to contact the driver but the driver could not be reached.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane, other motor vehicle stopped." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a "driver related factor - type of driver error unknown". Associated factors coded to V1 were over-inflated tires. No associated factors were coded to the driver of V1.

V2, the 2006 Pontiac Vibe, was driven by a 24-year old female. The driver reported no injuries. Driver was on her way from one place of work to another and traveling on a road that she was familiar with. She described being stopped at a red light for about 8 seconds and was then struck in the rear by the front of V1. V2 driver stated that she heard tires screeching behind her as the vehicle was struck.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to V1.