This two-vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane one-way roadway. This road is straight and level with no defects. The speed limit on the road is 97 kmph (65 mph). At the time of the crash, it was dark and the road was wet from recent rain.

Vehicle one, a 1995 Ford Windstar was eastbound in the second lane. Vehicle two, a 2000 Chevrolet Tahoe was eastbound in the first lane. Vehicle one changed lanes to the right and the front impacted the left of vehicle two. Both vehicles then side slapped, vehicle one right to vehicle two left. Vehicle one then impacted the barrier with its left side. Vehicle one spun across the both lanes of traffic and impacted the other barrier with its back plane. Vehicle two departed the right side and impacted the barrier with its front plane. Vehicle one crossed both planes of traffic and impacted the other barrier with its front plane. Both vehicles came to rest in the first lane. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a twenty-one year old female had just left home to go to work. This driver had only been driving for a few minutes at the time of the crash. This driver was having a conversation with her mother (passenger) at the time of the crash. This driver indicated that she did look but did not see the other vehicle. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a thirty-year old female was heading to work at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about five minutes at the time of the crash. This driver never saw the other vehicle. This driver was taking pre-natal vitamins as medications. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on right side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded as a driver related factor: inattention.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from adjacent lane [same direction] - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was not coded to this vehicle.