This three-vehicle collision occurred at the intersection of a north-south street and an east-west arterial road. The arterial road has five-lanes of two-way traffic, with the center lane acting as a two-way turn lane and left turn lanes. The intersecting street is a simple two-lane, two-way street. The intersection is controlled by a color traffic signal with a pedestrian signal. The speed limit the arterial road is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Honda Accord coupe was westbound in the first lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Ford Bronco was northbound in the first lane. Vehicle three, a 1996 Isuzu Box truck was stopped southbound waiting to turn left. Vehicle two entered the intersection as vehicle one did, and the front of vehicle one impacted the right side of vehicle two, beginning at the right front wheel. Vehicle two was pushed to the left, and the front of vehicle two collided with the front of vehicle three. All vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-seven year old female refused to be interviewed on scene. The police report indicates that this driver was looking at street signs while she was looking for a store.

The driver of V2, a fifty-three year old male had just left a restaurant and was heading back to work at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for less than one minute at the time of the crash. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of V3, a thirty-one year old male had left his office and was making a delivery at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about two hours at the time of the crash. This driver is not taking any medications. This driver was stopped at the time of the crash. It is unknown how often he drives this vehicle but he drives over this road on a weekly basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: external distraction.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.