This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The east/west roadway is straight and divided by a curbed median. The approach roadways consist of a left turn lane, a right turn lane and two through lanes. The westbound approach has an uphill grade and the eastbound approach has a downhill grade. The speed limit on this roadway is 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions. Traffic was heavy at the time of the crash due to rush hour.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1990 Ford Mustang, was westbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Pontiac Grand Prix, was eastbound in lane four, turning left (north) in the intersection. In the intersection, the front of V1 struck the right side of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-two-year-old female, was traveling from home to work. She was well rested, in good health and travels this route daily. This driver takes Lexapro for her depression. She stated that she was not very comfortable with her vehicle; there was no measurable tread on the tires. This driver applied the brakes when she realized that V2 was not going to stop, but skidded longitudinally.

The driver of V2, a twenty-four-year-old female, was traveling from her home to work. She had just dropped off her child and was late for work. She was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she was watching the vehicle in front of her that was also turning left and she had the sun in her eyes before entering the intersection.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was "not coded to this vehicle."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)." The driver's focus on the uninvolved vehicle and the sun glare were associated factors.