This crash occurred in the early evening of a weekend in the middle of an intersection between two roads. The intersection was composed of a northbound three-lane asphalt exit ramp and an east/west six-lane divided roadway controlled by a properly functioning traffic control signal. The bituminous exit ramp was dry, straight, and level with a posted speed limit of 37 kmph (35 mph). The east/west roadway was also bituminous, dry, straight, and level, but featured a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1998 Oldsmobile Silhouette with two occupants, was stopped northbound in lane three of the exit ramp at the intersection preparing to go straight. V2, a 2005 Toyota Sienna with one occupant, was westbound in lane one approaching the intersection where it also intended to go straight. As the light turned green in V1's direction it proceeded to cross the intersection. V2 failed to stop for the light and the front of V2 contacted the right side of V1. V1 came to rest past the intersection in the northbound lanes (before being moved off the roadway) while V2 came to rest on the right roadside of the westbound lanes. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 36-year-old female, suffered minor injuries (no injuries per the PAR) and was transported for treatment. She reported that she had been traveling between 18-32 kmph (11-20 mph) prior to the crash. She stated that her and the occupant had just left the mall and were on their way to the passenger's house. She saw the driver of V2, but assumed that he saw her and would stop for his red light. The driver of V1 stated that she did not have time to react to V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason was coded as a false assumption of the other driver's action (she believed that V2 would the right of way). An associated factor coded to this driver was the fact that this was her first time on this roadway.

The driver of V2, a 63-year old male, reported no injuries as a result of the crash. He advised that he had been traveling between 50-64 kmph (31-40 mph) prior to the crash. He stated that he had just left his sister's house and was on his way home. He was reading the navigation device and thought that he had the green light as he approached the intersection. He tried to apply the brakes but could not avoid V1.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factor for V2 include an internal distraction as the driver was looking at his navigation system, an illegal maneuver (failed to stop for TCD) and inexperience (he rarely travels this roadway).