This two-vehicle crash occurred in the intersection of a two-lane road and a four-lane roadway. The two-lane road is straight, level and controlled by a stop sign. The four-lane road is straight, level and has no controls. The speed limit for all directions is 48 kph (30 mph). On the south side of the intersection there is an embankment off the road on the west side. The embankment has a -17% slope down and a +24% slope up the other side. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one, a 1998 Dodge Caravan was stopped at the stop sign westbound. Vehicle two, a 2002 Ford Explorer Sport Trac was southbound in the second lane. Vehicle one proceeded to cross through the intersection. The front of vehicle two impacted the right of vehicle one. Vehicle one came to rest off the roadway in the southwest corner. Vehicle two rotated and rolled over four quarter turns and came to rest on its wheels in the southwest corner. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a sixty-year old female had just left the hospital and was stopped at the intersection. The driver had only been driving for a few minutes. This driver stated that while at the intersection she noticed some houses for sale across the street. This driver had just visited her husband who recently had a stroke and they were in need of a single floor residence. This driver had decided to go look at these houses. This driver indicated that she looked left and right but never saw the other vehicle. She believed that the other vehicle was blended into the background. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a forty-year old male was not interviewed. There is no known pre-crash information on this driver. While on-scene a police officer told the researcher that driver two made the statement that he couldn't believe she just went. He apparently saw her at the intersection.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as “this vehicle traveling: crossing over [passing through] intersection”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as “driver related factor: inattention (daydreaming)”. The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “other vehicle encroachment: from crossing street, across path”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “not coded to this vehicle”.