This is a two-vehicle crash that occurred shortly after noon in daylight hours at a four-way intersection that is controlled by a traffic light on colors. There are three westbound lanes, a dedicated right turn and a left turn lane. There are also three eastbound lanes, two eastbound left turn lanes and a dedicated right turn lane. The east/westbound lanes are separated by a raised concrete median. There are two northbound lanes, two southbound left turn lanes and a dedicated right turn lane. There is one southbound through lane. The roadway is straight, level and constructed of bituminous asphalt. The speed limit for the roadway is posted 56 kmph (35 mph). The roadway was dry and the sky was clear.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Ford Explorer SUV driven by a 38 year-old male with one passenger was traveling westbound in the # 2 lane approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (-2), a 1990 Ford Thunderbird coupe driven by a 27 year-old male was making a left turn in the #2 southbound lane. V1 entered the intersection on a red light and was struck on the right side by the front of V2. The impact caused V1 to rotate clockwise and travel in a westerly direction through the intersection. V1 tripped in the westbound lanes and rolled to it's left 4 quarter turns before coming to rest on it's wheels in the #1 and #2 westbound lanes facing in a northeasterly direction. V2 continued to travel in a southeasterly direction until it traveled off the south edge of the eastbound lanes coming to rest facing in a southeasterly direction. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 was commuting home (to a foreign country) from work. He drives the route daily and claimed no distractions. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street- turning into opposite direction. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. Factors for this driver include: an illegal maneuver (e.g., disregard of traffic control signal), inadequate surveillance, and the sight line restriction created by surrounding vehicles.

The driver of V2 was commuting home from work for this trip. When he turned left on the green light he did not see V1 due to other vehicles that obstructed his view. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason coded to this vehicle as a driver related decision factor: Other decision error (specified as: turned with obstructed view). Since V1 was traveling straight & this vehicle was turning at the intersection, this driver imposed upon the path of travel of V1, even though he had the green light.