A two vehicle daytime collision occurred on a Thursday just before noon during daylight. The collision occurred in a four-leg intersection with a traffic control signal with pedestrian signal. The pre-crash roadway for V1 is straight with an uphill grade of 3% and V2 is straight and level. Both roadways are paved with bituminous. There is a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph) for both vehicles.

Vehicle 1 (V1), a 1993 Volkswagen Jetta sedan, was traveling northbound on the roadway in lane two wanting to go straight through the intersection. Vehicle 2 (V2), a 1987 Honda Accord sedan, was traveling eastbound in lane one, also wanting to go straight through the intersection. V1 entered the intersection on the red light. The front of V1 impacted the right side of V2 causing them to deflect north/east. The front of V1 was snagged by V2's right wheel well, causing it to rotate counter clockwise coming to rest facing south. V2 continued east in a c clockwise yaw, both rear tires impacting the curb and coming to final rest with its rear plane against a chain link fence. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

On the other side of the chain link fence was a vehicle, a 2005 Pontiac Grand Am sedan that was legally parked in a car dealer's lot. There was no contact from V2, but the service manager wanted that car to be put on the report in case the owner found a scratch.

The driver of V1 was a 31-year-old male. He was not cooperative during the interview and refused to answer many questions. When asked if the driver was using a cell phone before the crash, he replied “no, but a cell phone was present”. Later during the interview he indicated his left hand was on the steering wheel, but he was holding a cell phone in his right hand. It is suspected that the driver either had just finished a conversation on the cell phone or was about to begin a conversation on the cell phone, or perhaps dialing the phone. This action would divert the driver's full attention from the driving task. He stated he was going straight through the intersection and was aware there were traffic controls at the intersection. He indicated to the investigating officer that he thought he had a green light but couldn't be sure. When the driver of V2 entered the intersection he said he made no speed reduction efforts & was traveling at a constant speed. Indications by the other driver, occupant of V2 and a witness listed on the police report are that the driver of V1 did not stop for a red light, an illegal maneuver. It is unknown what the purpose of the trip was for the driver of V1 or if fatigue was a factor. The pre-event movement for V1 was coded: going straight. The critical pre-crash event was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded to this vehicle as a driver related recognition factor: inattention. This coding was chosen because the driver's full attention to the driving task was diverted by actions related to a hand held cell phone. Because of this he became inattentive and he was not sure if the light was red or green when he entered the intersection.

The driver of V2 was a 57-year-old male. A surrogate interview was conducted with the right front passenger, a 42-year-old female, and the driver's wife. The interviewee indicated that they had a green light as the entered the intersection and out of no-where V1 appeared and then the collision occurred. The driver of V2 takes an unspecified high blood pressure medication, but was in good health. He had been on vacation the past week and was well rested. They were on their way to pick up their children from school. The pre-event movement for V2 was coded: going straight. The critical pre-crash event was coded: other vehicle encroachment/ from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event is not coded to this vehicle.