The crash occurred just after noon on a weekend on the eastern roadside of a six-lane divided roadway. The roadway consisted of three lanes in each direction divided by a small, raised, concrete median. The bituminous roadway was dry, level and curved to the left with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1994 Toyota Camry Wagon with one occupant was southbound in lane one. According to Fire/Rescue that was still on the scene, the driver fell asleep while at the wheel. V1 departed the southbound lanes (over the median), crossed over the northbound lanes, jumped the curb, rolled left one-quarter turn, and struck a tree. V1 came to rest against the tree and was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1, a 36-year-old male was transported for treatment of injuries suffered in the crash. When interviewed by phone several days after the crash the driver hesitated answering questions. He claimed that he was driving on the road at about 35 mph and all of the sudden someone sideswiped him and the next thing he knew he was turned over in his vehicle. After a few questions the driver said he did not want to answer any more questions because he felt uncomfortable answering questions from a stranger*. The driver did state that he works 80 hours a week as a postal worker and was over worked and tired (medical reports and fire rescue team both state that driver did in fact fall asleep at the wheel).

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road left side. The Critical Reason for the Precrash Event was a driver related error; sleeping, that is, actually asleep. Associated factors include fatigue, work related stress, and a diabetic condition.

*The driver believed that researcher was the one that sideswiped him. He asked to have interview form mailed to his residence so he could fill out the questionnaire and return it. Researcher offered to come by residence to show proof of employment by the driver reacted with a verbal threat.