The crash occurred in the eastbound lane of a bituminous, semi-urban, straight, level, 4 lane, 2 way roadway. There was 1 eastbound lane and 3 westbound lanes. On the south side of the roadway was a commercial driveway. Just east of the commercial drive was a busy, controlled intersection. Traffic volume was moderate to heavy. At the time of the mid-day, weekend crash, the roadway was wet, it was raining heavily and the wind was gusting to 80kmph (50mph). The posted speed limit was 72 kmph (45mph).

V1, a 1998 Sonoma pickup truck solely occupied by the 18-year-old male driver, was exiting the commercial drive and turning left to go westbound on the roadway described above. V2, a 1998 Saturn solely occupied by the 33-year-old female driver, had just proceeded straight through the intersection and was eastbound in lane one of the roadway described above. V2, front, contacted V1, left. V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest in the left turn lane facing west. V2 came to a stop facing northeast next to the lane one curb. Neither driver was injured. Both vehicles were towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was an 18 year old male who advised that he was leaving the gas station and had sat in the driveway for about 25 seconds waiting to turn left. He had looked left, right, left and right again and pulled out when he heard a horn blow and saw V2 coming at him. He didn't see V2 when he pulled out to turn left. He had not taken driver training and had only been driving for 2 months.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was the "recognition error of inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see)". Some factors for V1 include the driver's lack of driving experience and his lack of familiarity with the roadway (it was his first time there.). Other factors include the rainy, windy weather conditions and the driveway's proximity to the busy intersection.

The driver of V2 was a 33 year old female who advised that she was eastbound and traveling at a steady speed through the intersection when she observed V1 waiting to pull out of the driveway. She was going below the posted speed limit when V1 "just pulled out" in front of her. She did not have her lights on and even though it was mid-day, the rainy conditions made it seem dark and dreary. She was on her way to conduct a cooking party at a client's home but was on time.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment from driveway, turning into opposite direction". The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. Some factors for the driver of V2 include her thinking about her presentation at the party and about her desire for a new job so she would not have to augment the earnings from her full time job with part-time employment. The driver also advised that she drove this roadway rarely. The inclement weather may also have been a factor.