A two-vehicle collision occurred on a Wednesday at dusk. The collision occurred at a four-leg intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway. The north-south roadway consists of five bituminous main traffic lanes and is bordered on both sides by bicycle lanes. The roadways are designated 56 kmph (35 mph). The intersection is controlled by a tri-light signal, which was working properly at the time. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions, and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Ford Explorer sport utility, was traveling north in the number fourth lane and entering the intersection with the intention of turning left. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Acura MDX sport utility, was traveling south in the third lane and entering the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. As V1 made its turn, the front of V1 impacted the front of V2. Both vehicles moved southwest and came to rest in the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 20-year-old male, with 11 months of driving experience. He was on his way to a store after he went to the mall. He is training for a new position at his work. He was listening to the radio at the time of the crash. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling - turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1 and was coded as a driver related decision error: false assumption of other's actions.

The driver of V2 is a 60-year-old male with 44 years of driving experience. He has only driven this type of vehicle for the last 5 years. He and his wife were on their way to their son's home. The driver has a myopic (near sighted) condition and was wearing his glasses at the time. The driver has high blood pressure and high cholesterol. The driver takes Atenolol, Hydrochlorothiazide and Mevacor. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment - from opposite direction over the left lane line. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.