This two-vehicle crash occurred on a two lane, undivided, dry, asphalt roadway. This roadway runs east to west with various grades and curves. At the area of this crash, the eastbound lane is straight with a 5% uphill grade and the westbound lane curves right with a 2% downhill grade. This crash occurred in the evening with no street lighting and no adverse atmospheric conditions. The posted speed is 89 kmph (55 mph). Warning signs are posted for the curve and include an advisory speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 GMC Sonoma pickup, was eastbound, following a non-contact vehicle. V2, a 2003 Dodge Ram pickup, was westbound on the same roadway. The driver of V1 drove into the westbound lane attempting to pass the non-contact vehicle. The front of V1 struck the front of V2. V1 then continued eastbound, rotating counterclockwise. V1 traveled off the left side of the roadway, tripped in a shallow ditch and rolled four quarter-turns up a dirt embankment. V1 came to final rest on its wheels facing northwest. V2 continued westbound and came to rest facing west in the westbound lane. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1 and 89 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a fifty-one-year-old female, was traveling with a three-year-old female, from a relative's home to her own home. She stated that she takes Lisinopril for high blood pressure and had a head cold at the time of the crash. She claimed that she was well rested when she started her trip and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. This driver claimed that due to injuries sustained when she was ejected during this crash, she did not remember all of the precrash details but did state that she realized that she was on the wrong road. Her blood alcohol test result was 0.225. According to a witness statement in the police report, the witness was in a vehicle forward of V1 traveling in the same direction. The witness reported that the driver of V1 attempted to pass the witness vehicle and crossed the double yellow lane line in a no passing zone.

The driver of V2, a sixty-three-year-old male, was traveling for leisure and on his way home. His passengers were a sixty-year-old male and a sixty-year-old male. He was well rested and was comfortable with the route, his vehicle and his passengers. He stated that the headlights of the non-contact vehicle temporarily "blinded" him and he did not see V1 until the last moment. He steered right in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid a collision with V1.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related decision factor: illegal maneuver. This coding was selected based on the witness statement to the police and also that regardless of whether the driver of V1 saw V2 or not, the decision to pass the witness vehicle in the no passing zone placed V1 in the immanent path of collision with V2 making the situation critical. Alcohol consumption was also as considered a factor in her decision-making process.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.