A two vehicle daytime collision occurred during morning hours on a Saturday. The collision occurred on a five lane two-way arterial street with a two-way turn lane. At the site of the crash, there is a fast-food restaurant with two driveways, and the crash occurred at the second driveway when heading south. The arterial road is straight and level at the site of the crash, and is paved with asphalt. At the time of the crash the road was wet and it was raining lightly. The speed limit for the road is 48 kmph (30 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1987 Cadillac Brougham sedan, was headed south in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Peterbilt tractor pulling a refrigerated semi-trailer, was headed south in lane two. V2 was well ahead of V1 when it moved into the center two-way turn lane to initiate a right turn into the second driveway of the restaurant. After putting on a turn signal and checking for clear traffic, V2 entered the driveway and slowed to ensure the trailer did not strike a sign for the restaurant. As the trailer wheels of V2 entered the first lane, V1 approached and skidded into the wheels. The front of V1 struck the wheels, causing disabling damage to V1 and a subsequent tow. The driver and passenger of V1 were treated on-scene for soreness but were not transported to the hospital. The driver of V2 was uninjured and V2 showed no residual deformation. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 42-year-old male. He and his passenger were on their way to a restaurant for breakfast when the crash occurred Just prior to the crash the driver of V1 was lost in internal thoughts due to having a conversation with the right front passenger. This took his attention away from the driving task and he was not looking forward until his passenger warned him of the impending impact. He stated that after the passenger said his name as a warning; he looked forward to see the truck in front of him. At that point, he slammed on the brakes and skidded into the rear set of wheels on V2. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was assigned to this driver as a driver related recognition factor: internal distraction.

The driver of V2, a 33-year-old male, stated that V1 was not in the vicinity when he initiated his slow right turn. Prior to the turn, the driver stated he put on his emergency flashers and also had his turn signal on. The driver assumed that V1 would yield to his turn. The driver of V2 first saw V1 when he was looking to the right to make sure that a sign was not run over by the wheels, and saw V1 skid into the rear wheels. Trailer conspicuity was not a factor for V2. The trailer was white with proper side marker light and red/white reflective tape along the right side of the trailer. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning right at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle.