This single vehicle crash occurred in the eastbound lanes on an exit ramp. This was a one-way road with three lanes, one lane turning right, one lane a combination of straight and a left turn and one left turn lane. It was a straight, uphill, bituminous roadway with an advisory speed of 72 kph (45 mph). It was late afternoon and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow at the time was unknown. There was an intersection adjacent to the crash site that is controlled by traffic signals

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Chevrolet Lumina four-door with one occupant, was eastbound on the exit ramp approaching the intersection. The vehicle initiated a clockwise yaw in lane three as the vehicle skidded off the left side of the roadway, the front left wheel struck a curb and the vehicle initiated a roll over with the left side leading. As the vehicle rolled the top struck a breakaway sign support as the vehicle came to rest on its top. During the rollover, the right side struck a utility box and base before coming to rest on its top facing east. The vehicle had rolled two-quarter turns. The vehicle was towed from the scene. The driver was transported due to injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1.

The 27 year-old male driver was partially interviewed at the hospital less than an hour after the crash occurred. The driver claimed the brakes failed so he ran off the road to prevent hitting other vehicles. Post crash inspection did not verify brake failure as probable cause. Physical evidence shows the vehicle was in a yaw with left side leading as it ran off the left side of the roadway at the intersection. The driver claimed he was listening to the radio at the time, and was returning home from work. He drives the route daily and is familiar with the vehicle. The report completed by the investigating officer indicates drugs and alcohol were involved. . The driver was transported to a trauma center for injuries and the police took blood for alcohol and drug use, which both showed positive. The medical report states the driver had slurred speech and the driver admitted to taking Percocet and drinking alcohol prior to the crash. His medical history consists of asthma and kidney stones

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason was coded as a driver related factor: overcompensation.