This two-vehicle crash occurred on a four-lane southbound expressway, divided from the northbound roadway by a jersey concrete barrier. The roadway is not controlled by any traffic devices, has a speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph), is made of bituminous asphalt, is straight, level and has no visible deficiencies. The weather at the time of the crash was clear and dry and there were no adverse conditions or visibility restrictions. Heavy traffic congestion was present at the time.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 two-door Jeep Wrangler driven by a 23 year-old male, was driving southbound in lane three of the expressway behind vehicle two (V2), a 1990 four-door Toyota Corolla driven by a 56 year-old male with one passenger. V2, also traveling southbound in the third lane, slowed due to congested traffic ahead. The front of V1 struck the rear of V2. Both vehicles came to rest forward of the impact point in lane three. The driver of V2 was transported due to non-incapacitating injuries and V2 was towed to due to significant rear-end damage. The driver of V1 was not injured and the vehicle was not towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 is familiar with the vehicle and travels the route weekly. He claimed to be attentive to the driving task, was aware of V2 in front of him, but when V2 decelerated because of congestion, the driver could not stop in time. He could not estimate the gap distance he was following V2. He applied the brakes as an evasive maneuver.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded as: driver related error, following too closely to respond to unexpected actions.

The driver of V2 refused to be interviewed. Records indicate he is a diabetic. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as: this vehicle traveling-this vehicle decelerating. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.