This three-vehicle crash occurred on an undivided two-lane roadway near an intersection with another two-lane roadway. The north/south roadway was straight with a positive 2 per cent grade and a posted speed limit of 56 KMPH (35 MPH). The surface was new asphalt and the roadway was dry. This crash occurred on a sunny early afternoon weekday, with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

V1, a 1999 Ford Taurus four-door sedan with one occupant, was stopped in the southbound lane waiting to make a left hand turn. V2, a 1999 Nissan Sentra four-door sedan with two occupants was stopped six feet behind V1 waiting for V1 to turn so it could continue straight. V3, a 1995 Toyota Corolla four-door sedan with one occupant was traveling southbound on the same roadway coming up behind V2 and V1 respectively. V3 left 4.9 meters (16 feet) of skid marks before contacting the rear of V2. The collision subsequently pushed V2 into the rear of V1. V1 traveled approximately 15 meters (50 feet) after impact before coming to final rest. V2 and V3 came to final rest near the area of impact in their original travel lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1 and 0 kmph for V2.

V1, the Ford Taurus, was driven by a 46-year old female who reported minor injuries from the crash. She reported being stopped at the intersection with the intention of turning left to go home. She was on her way back from the diabetes center at a local hospital. She remembers looking straight ahead watching traffic, waiting for a break so she could make her left turn. She heard a crash, then felt a bump as the front of V2 contacted the rear of her vehicle.

No Critical Pre-crash Event and no Critical Reason were coded for V1 because V1 was not involved in the first harmful event (the impact between V3 and V2). Associated factors coded to this driver were the use of prescription medications to control diabetes and high blood pressure and an exterior distraction in that she was looking at approaching traffic.

V2, the Nissan Sentra, was driven by a 26-year old male who reported neck and back injuries. He stated he had just left a store on the corner approximately one-tenth mile from the crash, en-route to the bank. He said he drove up on V1, which was stopped in the roadway with its left turn blinker on, and stopped 2 meters (6 feet) behind V1. As he was waiting for V1 to turn, he looked in the rearview mirror and saw V3 coming up on him at a high rate of speed. He braced for a collision and had no time to take any avoidance maneuvers before the front of V3 contacted the rear of his vehicle. The collision with V3 caused his vehicle to be pushed into the rear of V1.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in the same direction with a higher speed." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle. One associated factor coded to this driver was the use of a muscle relaxant, taken for an unknown condition.

V3, the Toyota Corolla, was driven by an 18-year old female who was transported from the scene with wrist injuries. She stated she was on her way back to work after meeting her mother for lunch. She had just turned onto the roadway heading south at about 40 KMPH (25 MPH), when she looked in her right side mirror at something behind her that had caught her attention. She doesn't remember what caught her attention, but stated that when she looked straight again after a few seconds she realized traffic was stopped and applied the brakes, which locked up, but couldn't stop in time before contacting the rear of V2. She claimed to have not been able to see V2's brake lights and that contributed to her colliding into the rear of V2, but ultimately said her inattentiveness was the cause of her crashing into V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V3 was "other motor vehicle in lane, stopped." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a recognition error-external distraction. The driver of V3 reported to have been looking out the window at something. One associated factor could be stress. The driver is in the National Guard, and was due to deploy for active duty. She denied worrying about being deployed in the interview. She had just come from lunch with her mom, on her way back to work. She reported not having a deadline for getting back to work since she only had a few days left, therefore ruling out that she was in a hurry. Associated factors coded to this driver include inattention and inadequate surveillance in that she failed to look far enough ahead prior to checking her side mirror.