This three-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours on a cloudy weekend morning. The crash occurred on a straight, level stretch of a five-lane, two-way, bituminous north-south roadway, in the area of an intersection with an east-west roadway. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light traffic signal, and the speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph). There was heavily congested traffic in the area of the intersection. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions, and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Toyota Sienna minivan, was traveling southbound in the second lane, traversing the intersection on a green light. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Chrysler LHS 4-door sedan, was ahead of V1 in the same lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 2001 BMW X5 compact SUV, was ahead of V2 in the same lane. V3 came to a sudden stop due to congested traffic. V2 came to a stop behind V3. Just past the intersection, the front of V1 impacted the back of V2. V2 moved ahead and impacted the back of V3. All three vehicles came to rest in their original lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 35-year-old female driver of V1 was traveling with four passengers, three of whom are her children. The driver reported that she has no formal driver's training, and her husband instructed her. One of the children reported that the driver was talking to the children in the back seats and was not paying attention to the driving task. The child yelled out at as V1 approached V2. The driver applied the brakes, but was not able to avoid the collision. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: Other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related recognition error, inattention (i.e., daydreaming) due to the focus of her attention on the conversation and not the driving task.

The 39-year-old female driver of V2 reported that she was able to come to a complete stop when traffic suddenly stopped in front of her. She looked in the rear-view mirror, and could see the driver of V1 engaged in conversation with her children and not looking ahead. She braced for the impact. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.

The 37-year-old female driver of V3 reported that she was able to come to a complete stop when traffic suddenly stopped in front of her. She looked in the rear-view mirror and saw V2 come to a complete stop before the impacts occurred. V3 was not involved in the first harmful event.