This three-car crash occurred at an intersection with two divided roadways that intersect at an angle. The north/south roadway curves to the east with a radius of 24 meters (78 feet). It is a two-lane divided (four lanes overall) with a concrete surface. The east/west roadway prior to the scene curves to the south but through the scene is straight and level. It is also a two lane (four lanes overall) roadway with a concrete surface. The speed limit for the roadways is 54 kph (35 mph) for the east\west roadway, and 48 kmph (30 mph) for the north/south roadway. There is a stop sign for the north/south roadway. The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash. It was late afternoon on a weekday just before the rush hour, and there was increasing traffic on the roadways.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Chevrolet Malibu with five occupants was traveling south in the second lane of traffic approaching the intersection of both roadways. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Ford Escort with one occupant, was traveling west in the first lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 2000 Mazda Protégé with three occupants was also traveling west in lane two a short distance behind V2. V1 entered the intersection without stopping at the stop sign and the front of V2 struck the left side of V1. V2 came to rest facing west adjacent to the impact point. At about the same time of the first impact, the front of V3 struck the front of V1. At impact V3 rotated counter clockwise, the right rear corner struck the left passenger side of V2 where both vehicles came to rest. V1, after impact with V3, rotated counterclockwise as it moved backward and entered the median where it came to rest. The right side axles on V1 fractured when the vehicle mounted the curbed median. V1 and V 3 were towed from the scene. V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 58-year old female, who claimed minor injuries, drove V1, the 1997 Chevrolet Malibu. She told police and the researcher she could not remember what happened. She does not posses a valid drivers license but stated she was driving cars since she was a teenager. This was her first crash. Her grand daughter, the left rear occupant stated V1 was traveling eastbound when entering the intersection. In her vision V3 hit the front hit V1. It pushed the vehicle back onto the median. The driver picked up her grand daughters and grandson at a nearby school and was heading for a super market located one block away from the crash site. The driver and left rear occupant said there was no conversation or distraction going on inside the vehicle. The driver does not take any medications and was not in a hurry. She was familiar with the vehicle but rarely drives the route. The vehicle belonged to her son. He reclaimed private possessions from the vehicle next day at the local police auto pound. There he informed the researcher the vehicle had been in a previous crash with airbag deployment. The airbags have not been replaced afterwards, but cut off. The critical pre crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver decision error: illegal maneuver. The vehicle did not stop for a stop sign. The exact reason for this illegal maneuver is not known.

A 47-year old female, who reported minor injuries, drove V2, the 1995 Ford Escort. She stated she was in the first lane, traveling at a normal rate of speed and saw V1 coming from the northern direction. She was heading home from her job site. She said she applied her brakes once she realized V1 was not going to stop. At the crash site she pointed out skid marks leading from lane two of the south bound lanes to the point of impact. She believed the driver of V1 hit her brakes that hard. A closer look revealed these were acceleration marks extending past the final rest positions of all vehicles. The critical pre crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street-turning into opposite direction. No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle.

V3, the 2000 Mazda Protégé was driven by a 29-year old male, who suffered several cuts and bruises in this crash. He was heading to a local restaurant for a light dinner. His work shift was to start later that day. Prior to the crash he was talking to his wife, the right front occupant. The conversation revolved around the wife's evening activities. Despite the conversation the driver was looking straight ahead, concentrating on the roadway. He stated he did not see V1 approaching the intersection due to V2 driving ahead of him, limiting his line of sight on his right side. He did not have time to attempt any evasive maneuvers. He is familiar with the vehicle but rarely drives the route. V3 was not involved in the first harmful event.