This three-vehicle crash occurred on a straight, jersey barrier-divided roadway. The westbound lanes have a 4.1% uphill grade and consist of four through lanes. The speed limit on this roadway is 105 kmph (65 mph). It was dark with streetlights on at the time of the crash with no adverse atmospheric conditions. Traffic was heavy at the time due to a nearby sports event.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1987 Chevrolet S10 Blazer, was westbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Chevrolet 1500 pickup, was westbound in lane four. Vehicle three (V3), 2006 Nissan Xterra, was westbound in lane four in front of V2. V2 and V3 came to a stop for traffic conditions. V1 changed lanes into lane four. The driver of V1 then realized that V2 was stopped and applied the brakes. The front of V1 struck the back of V2 and the front of V2 struck the back of V3. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-two-year-old male, was traveling with a twenty-five-year-old male passenger, from his home to a friend's home. He was healthy and well rested. This driver did not answer questions regarding his familiarity with his vehicle (he was the registered owner) or the roadway.

The driver of V2, a twenty-five-year-old male, refused to be interviewed. No further information is available for this driver.

The driver of V3, a thirty-year-old female, was traveling from work to her home. She was well rested, healthy and familiar with her vehicle. This driver travels this route monthly.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; other vehicle stopped." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."

The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded as "other; not involved in first harmful event." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was "not coded to this vehicle."