This two-vehicle collision occurred in the eastbound lanes of a two-way, five-lane undivided roadway. The pre-crash roadway is level and straight with bituminous paving. The posted speed limit for the roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). Access to this section of roadway is not controlled. The weather was clear and the roadway was dry.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1991 Toyota Camry was eastbound in the first lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 Cadillac Seville was westbound in the center turn lane. V2 turned left into the driveway and the front of V1 impacted the right of V2. V1 was towed due to damage. V2 was not towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a seventy-one year old male who could not be interviewed due to a language barrier.

The driver of V2, a twenty-nine year old male was heading to an office to check in with his parole officer. This driver had been driving for less than ten minutes at the time of the crash. His near-sighted vision is corrected with the glasses he was wearing. He was well rested, and familiar with the roadway as he drives it several times a month. This driver claims, he stopped for 5-10 seconds prior to proceeding, as he checked traffic waited for one vehicle to clear, and then went. He stated that V1 was clear back at the previous intersection, and must have been going way over the posted speed limit. This driver then indicated that he did look but never saw V1.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V2 and was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance. This driver may have also experienced inattention due to his upcoming appointment with his parole officer.