This two-vehicle crash occurred on a dry, straight, physically divided, six-lane, state highway with warning signs for lane closures and working on road for controls. The highway runs north and south at the location of the crash and has three lanes in each direction. The speed limit on the highway is 104 kmph (65 mph) and there were no adverse weather conditions at the time. This crash occurred during stop and go traffic.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Ford Escape was northbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1987 Ford F-250 was northbound in front of V1 stopped in traffic. V1 did not stop and impacted with its front to V2's back. V1 came to rest at impact facing north in lane two at impact. V2 after the impact bounced backwards slightly and came to rest on its wheels facing north in lane two. V1 was towed due to damage. V2 was not towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-eight year old male, was heading to the airport to pick up his boss. This driver had been driving for almost twenty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver indicated that he has a very stressful job and was worried about work related stuff at the time of the crash. This driver does not remember if he was on the phone at the time of the crash, but said that typically when he is in his car he is on the phone. This driver said that from the time he went to bed and the time he got up it was six hours but he had a restless sleep and only slept for about four hours. Fatigue is considered a factor for this driver. This driver drives this vehicle on a daily basis and over this road on a daily basis

The driver of V2, a thirty-four year old male, was driving from his house to a doctor's appointment. This driver stated that he was stopped and was looking in his rearview mirror at V1 as it approached. This driver drives this vehicle on a daily basis but only rarely on this roadway.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: inattention (I.e., daydreaming).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.