This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-way intersection. The south, west, and east side of the intersection consisted of two thought lanes. The north side of the intersection consists of two through lanes and one right turn lane. The intersection was straight, level, and bituminous, with a posted speed limit of 48kph (30mph) in all directions. Shrubbery restricted the sightline of both drivers. Traffic on the north/south roadway is controlled by stop signs before entering the intersection. It was late afternoon on a weekday, the road was dry and the sky was clear. The traffic flow was minimal.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Landrover Discovery four door with only the driver present, was traveling northbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Toyota Camry four door with only the driver present, was traveling westbound in lane one. As V1 entered the intersection, the driver of V2 saw V1 and applied the brakes and began to skid longitudinally. The front of V2 struck the right back side of V1. At impact, V1 initiated a clockwise yaw until coming to rest on all four tires facing east on the north side of the intersection approximately 18 meters (59 feet) from the impact. V2 came to rest in the middle of the intersection on all four tires facing in the northwest direction. Tire skid marks on the roadway identified the impact and final rest positions of both vehicles. Although at the scene the investigating officer stated V1 would be towed from the scene, both vehicles were driven. Neither of the drivers was injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

A 33-year old male drove V1. He stated that he was going to work from home. He is familiar with the vehicle but this was the first time he was on this roadway. He stated that he got approximately seven and a half hours of sleep the night before and works eight hours a day. Although he claimed he had stopped at the stop sign for 3-4 seconds, the driver of V2 denied this. The location of the final rest position of V1 indicates the driver failed to stop prior to entering the intersection. The driver admitted to some work stress but would not elaborate. Shrubbery in the southeast corner restricted the sightline of the driver.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: illegal maneuver. Associated factors coded to this driver are first time on that road and bushes as a possible sightline restriction.

A 22-year old female drove V2. She stated that she was on her way to work from school when she saw V1 run the stop sign and pull into the intersection. She stated she got five and a half hours of sleep the night before and works approximately five hours per day. Although the sight line was somewhat restricted by the shrubbery, the driver did apply the brakes pre-crash as an avoidance maneuver. The driver said she was also checking her messages on her cell phone prior to the time of the collision.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.