The crash occurred in the westbound lanes of a 7 lane roadway divided by a median in the westbound lane. There were 3 eastbound and 4 westbound lanes with a left turn lane in the westbound lane. This was a straight level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). It was the mid-afternoon on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was normal. There is a slight curve to the right in the westbound lanes.

V1, a 1999 Chevy Malibu 4-door with two occupants, was turning left at an intersection heading northbound on the highway in lane 4. V2, a 1999 Plymouth Voyager 3-door with 2 occupants was in lane 3 which was heading eastbound. V1 turned left at the intersection and V2 then struck V1 in the front right corner. V1 came to a rest on the entrance ramp. Upon arrival to the scene, V2 had moved to a medical building at the same intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

V1, the 1999 Chevy Malibu was driven by a male who was approximately 20-25 years of age was not injured and neither was his occupant. The researcher was unable to talk to the driver because he was becoming a bit irritated about his vehicle being removed by an outside towing facility that his insurance company would not cover. He was also stating that it wasn't his fault and that he shouldn't be faulted for the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “this vehicle traveling, turning left at the intersection”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was “type of driver error unknown”. The driver seemed to be driving aggressively and probably ran a red light.

V2, which was the 1999 Plymouth Voyager, was driven by a 40-year-old male who reported no injuries. He stated that V1 entered the intersection without even slowing down to yield to the traffic and was probably running the red light. He said it happened so fast that he could barely react to what happened.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 is “other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction - over left lane line”. The Critical Reason for Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle.

No PAR was generated for this crash because the supervising officer categorized it as a A9 which means that both drivers exchanged insurance information so there was no need for an Accident Report.