The crash occurred on an east/west urban interstate that was straight and level. It was located in a construction area, but workers were not present at the time and three lanes were open in each direction. There were no shoulders for the westbound lanes and a concrete barrier wall was 0.5 meters off the north edge of the road. Barrels were located just off the south edge of the westbound lanes. The eastbound lanes had a similar layout. The interstate was heavily traveled; traffic counts indicated the six lanes carry 142,840 vehicles per day in the area. Conditions at the time of the crash were dark and wet with heavy rain falling on a weekend night. The posted speed limit in the construction zone was 72kph (45mph) and street lights were illuminating.

Vehicle #1 was a 2004 Pontiac Grand Am traveling westbound in the center (2nd) lane. Vehicle #2, an unknown passenger vehicle, was westbound in the right (1st) lane. Vehicle #2 crossed the lane line and its left front struck Vehicle #1's right back. The impact sent the Pontiac (V1) into a clockwise rotation and it rotated 270 degrees before being contacted in the left side by the front of Vehicle #2. Vehicle #1 continued its clockwise rotation and struck the barrier wall off the north edge of the road with its front. The Pontiac (V1) came to rest facing north just west of impact. Vehicle #2 reportedly came to a stop momentarily before fleeing the scene. Vehicle #1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle #1 was driven by a 26-year old female that was belted with deployed frontal airbags. She was not injured in the crash. The driver reported the hit and run vehicle to possibly be a silver Pontiac Trans Am, or similar type vehicle, and was able to get three digits of the license plate. However, the other vehicle was never located.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was other vehicle encroaching from adjacent lane over right lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors included rain and wet roads.

Vehicle #2 was never located by police and all information was unknown.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #2 was this vehicle over lane line on left side of travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was unknown. The only associated factors that could be positively coded were rain and wet roads; all others are unknown.