This crash occurred at the intersection of a four-lane, concrete divided roadway with +2% grade, and a two-lane undivided roadway with a -1.5% grade. The two-lane road is controlled by a stop sign. The four-lane road has a speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph) and the two-lane road has a speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1990 Oldsmobile Regency was heading east in the right lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1990 GMC Bus was stopped heading north in the first lane of the two-lane. V1 changed lanes to the second lane around a non-contact vehicle. V2 turned left at the intersection. The front of V1 impacted the left of V2. Both vehicles came to rest near the point of impact. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-year-old male, was not interviewed. A witness and the police indicated that this driver was driving about 144 kmph (90 mph). A discussion with this driver's brother indicated that this person should be driving home from work at this time. There is no known sleep or health information for this driver. The witness indicated that this driver passed a non-contact vehicle very suddenly.

The driver of V2, a forty-nine year old male was working as a city bus driver at the time of the crash. This driver had been working 1.5 hours that morning. This driver indicated that he had been stopped for about one to two minutes at the time of the crash. He indicated that he saw a non-contact Jeep about one block away and then started to turn left. The driver looked but did not see V1's approach. There may have been a partial sightline restriction by an intervening in-transport vehicle that V1 was in the process of passing. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this route on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event not coded to this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see).