The crash occurred in the middle turn lane of a five-lane roadway. There were two southbound travel lanes and two northbound travel lanes. The third lane was the middle turn lane, and additionally there was a parking lane on either side of this street. This was a straight, level, bituminous street with a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). It was an early afternoon on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was cloudy. Traffic flow was congested, with stop-and-go activity.

V1, a 2006 Kia Optima with driver as the only occupant, had been traveling southbound in lane two. V2, a 1998 Mercedes Benz C-280 with driver as the only occupant, had been parked in a parking lot on the west side of the street. V1 driver had intended to make a left turn into a parking lot on the east side of the street and had merged into the middle turn lane to make his left turn across the northbound travel lanes and into a parking lot. V2 driver had intended to exit its parking lot, cross the southbound travel lanes and then make a left into the northbound travel lanes. As V2 pulled out onto the driveway the southbound traffic in lanes one and two stopped to allow V2 cross their paths and make its left turn. V2 pulled onto the roadway and crossed the southbound travel lanes and when V2 entered the middle turn lane, with its front side middle and right section struck the front right corner of V1, which had just begun to make its left turn from the middle turn lane. V2 had received disabling damage and was still in the middle turn lane upon researcher's arrival. V1 had been driven onto the east sidewalk by a tow truck operator. Both drivers had already been transported to an emergency room to be evaluated for possible injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1 and 0 kmph for V2.

V1, the 2006 Kia Optima, was driven by a 42-year old male who had reported to the police that he had been engaged in his left turn when his vehicle was struck by V2. Attempts to contact V1 driver were made but V1 driver chose not to participate in the driver's survey. It was known that V1 driver suffered from arthritis, though it was unknown if this had any affect on V1 driver's ability to operate a motor vehicle. It was also unknown if V1 driver had been engaged in any non-driving activities at the time of the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was, "other vehicle encroachment, from driveway, turning into opposite direction." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated driver related factors coded to V1 driver were having an obstructed view and a sightline restriction, both of which were caused by the vehicles that had stopped to allow V2 to enter the roadway. Additional driver related factors were non-rush hour related congestion.

V2, the 2004 Honda Civic, was driven by a 46-year old female. Attempts to contact V2 driver at the hospital were unsuccessful though V2 driver's husband was present at the emergency room. He advised that his wife had arranged to leave work early and was on her way home when she had pulled out of the workplace parking lot to head north. He stated that V2 driver makes this turn every day when she leaves work and exits the parking lot. During the surrogate driver's survey it was also learned that V2 driver was in fine health, had thirty years of driving experience and was also very familiar with this particular street.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason was a driver decision error, turned with an obstructed view. A view obstruction, a sightline restriction, and roadway congestion were also coded to V2 driver for the same reasons as V1.