This three-vehicle rear end crash occurred mid-morning in the number three westbound lane of a six-lane, two-way roadway at a four-way intersection. There are two through westbound lanes, a left turn lane and a right turn lane. There are also two eastbound lanes. This crash is intersection related. The intersection is controlled by a traffic light on colors that was functioning properly at the time of the crash. The posted speed limit for the roadway is posted 56 kmph (35 mph). The roads were dry asphalt and the sky was clear.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Chevrolet Impala sedan driven by a 48 year-old female was traveling westbound in the number three lane approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1992 Plymouth 4 door hatchback Sundance driven by a 43 year-old male was stopped behind vehicle three (V3) a 1991 Chevrolet pick-up driven by a 36 year-old male with one passenger, in the westbound number three lane. They were stopped for an ambulance that was traveling southbound through the intersection. V1 struck the rear of V2 forcing it into the rear of V3. The vehicles came to rest in the westbound number three lane facing west. V2 was towed due to damage. V1 and V3 were removed from the scene on their own power. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason was attributed to V1 as a driver decision factor: too fast to respond to unexpected actions of others (specified as: forward traffic stopped on a green light in traffic lane for an emergency vehicle traveling through the intersection).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful, and the critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. The vehicle was stopped for about 5-10 seconds before the crash.