This two vehicle crash occurred during early morning daylight hours at an intersection with tri-color traffic lights. The primary road is a 5-lane divided concrete roadway from west to east. The intersecting roadway is a two lane (two-way traffic) concrete roadway from north to south. The speed limit for the roadways is 54 kmph (35 mph) for both roadways. The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash. It was early morning on a weekend and there was little to no traffic on the roadways.

Vehicle one (V 1), a 2003 Ford F-150 Super Crew pick-up driven by a 19 year-old male with two passengers. It was traveling south in the second lane of traffic approaching the intersection of both roadways. Vehicle two (V 2), a 2000 GMC Yukon, driven by a 25 year-old male with one passenger. It was traveling west in the second lane. As both vehicles entered the intersection, the front of V1 impacted the right side of V2. V1 rotated clockwise and came to rest within the intersection, facing northwest. Both vehicles collided again in a side slap impact, with V1's left side impacting the right rear corner of V2. V2 rotated counter clockwise after the impact, and moved southwest. Its right front impacted concrete storm drainage, located in the southwest corner of the intersection. It continued to move southwest until it came to rest 11 meters (37 feet) from the south curb of the westbound lanes. Both vehicles came to rest approximately 16 meters (52 feet) apart, this was the distance between V1's left front wheel and V2's left rear wheel. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 19-year-old male, left the scene on foot. The right front passenger was interviewed at the scene. He said he did not know the driver that well. He stated all three occupants spent the night together at a party and were on their way home. The passenger remarked that the driver was probably still drunk. He claimed he did not pay too much attention to the driver's pre-crash actions, other than he was going straight and did not slow down prior to entering the intersection. There was no conversation going on in the vehicle prior to the crash. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded "illegal maneuver". This vehicle entered the intersection on a red light. The exact reason for this maneuver is not known.

The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason not code to this vehicle. The driver of V2 was a 25-year-old male who was driving his sister from their home to work, a daily commute on this roadway. He observed V1 prior to the collision and assumed he would yield the right of way.