Case Summary 2006-05-10

This midday two-vehicle crash occurred on a two-way, two-lane roadway, which was not physically divided. The roadway was dry, and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions. The gradient for both vehicles involved was determined to be level. No traffic control devices were present at the crash location. The posted speed limit for the roadway was 72 kmph (45 mph). Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle one (V1), a blue 1997 Oldsmobile Cutlass, was traveling north on the roadway intending to continue straight. Vehicle two (V2), a yellow 2002 Chevrolet School Bus was heading south on the roadway, also intending to continue straight. Vehicle one crossed full double barrier lines, entering the path of V2. The front left of V1 made contact with the front left of V2. The impact caused vehicle one to rotate counter clockwise approximately 110 degrees before coming to final rest on the roadway facing southwest. Vehicle two rotated counter clockwise approximately 90 degrees before coming to final rest off of the roadway facing east. As V2 left the roadway, the right side of the vehicle made contact with a utility pole where it came to final rest. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage.

The driver of vehicle one, a 22 year-old male, had to be extricated from the vehicle, however, the extent of his injuries were unknown. He was transported to a medical facility for treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle at the time of the crash. An interview with this driver could not be obtained even after numerous attempts. It is therefore uncertain if any fatigue or health related issues contributed to this crash. One possible associated factor present at the scene was illegal drug paraphernalia, which was found in the vehicle. The Critical Precrash Event that was coded to this vehicle was: this vehicle traveling over the left lane line. The reason for the Critical Precrash Event was coded as: unknown reason for critical event.

The driver of vehicle two, a 45 year-old female, did not suffer any injuries as a result of the crash. There were no other occupants on the bus when the crash occurred. No phone number was provided on the police report for this driver. No contact number could be obtained from any other sources. For this reason, an interview could not be obtained from this driver. The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was: other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction over left lane line. The reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle.