The crash occurred in the northbound lane of a one-way roadway with one lane of travel, and a bicycle lane. The roadway was straight, level, bituminous with a speed limit of 48kmph (30mph). It was morning on a weekday and it was daylight and clear with no adverse conditions. The traffic flow conditions were normal.

V1, a 1996 International School bus was traveling northbound. V2, a 2000 Honda Civic four door with one occupant was traveling northbound behind V1. V3, a 1999 Jeep Grand Cherokee was legally parked and unoccupied on the western parking lane. V1 was attempting to go around a double-parked vehicle, when V2 was attempting to pass V1 on the left side. The right side of V2 then impacted the left side of V1, and then the left side of V2 impacted the right side of V3. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the International School Bus was driven by a 41 year-old male who reported no injuries. He stated that he was going around a doubled parked vehicle. As he was going around the parked vehicle, V2 was trying to go around me and got wedged between the bus and V3.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V1 was “this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the left side of the travel lane”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded “inadequate surveillance”. No associated factors were also coded to the driver.

V2, the Honda Civic was driven by a 30 year-old male who reported no injuries. He stated that he was attempting to pass V1 on the left side but did not realize that there was a double-parked vehicle in the path of which V1 was attempting to go around.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V2 was “other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane (same direction) - over right lane line”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. A recognition factor, inadequate surveillance (Failed to look far enough ahead) was coded as an associated factor. Another associated factor was a decision error because he proceeded with insufficient clearance.