This two-vehicle rollover crash occurred at the intersection of a two-lane undivided gravel road running east-west and a two-way, divided, bituminous county road running north-south. The intersection is controlled with a stop sign for the east-west traffic only. The gravel road has a speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph) and a +3% grade leading up to the intersection. The northbound roadway has a -7% grade pre-crash and a speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred during early evening hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one, a 2001 Chevy 1500 Pickup was eastbound in the first lane. Vehicle two, a 2001 Ford Expedition was northbound in the first lane. Both vehicles entered the intersection and the front of vehicle two impacted the right rear of vehicle one. Vehicle one came to rest in the first westbound lane. Vehicle two rotated clockwise and departed the east should and rolled over one quarter turn. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a fifty-five year old male was heading home after work. This driver had been driving for less than five minutes at the time of the crash. This driver had worked outside all day painting houses in 90-degree heat. The driver asked his passenger (his son) to adjust the air conditioner. The air conditioner in the vehicle was not working properly, and then the driver started adjusting the controls. This driver does not take any medicines. This driver drives this vehicle daily but this was his first time on the road.

The driver of vehicle two, a forty-nine year old male was coming from work and heading home. This driver had been driving for almost one hour at the time of the crash. This driver does not take any medicine. This driver never saw the other vehicle. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over [passing through] intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to vehicle one and was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction, for adjusting air conditioning controls.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.