This single vehicle crash occurred during early evening dark hours The location was a three-lane concrete divided (without a positive barrier) straight up hill roadway. The weather was clear and the roads dry. The posted speed limit for the roadway was 72 kmph (45 mph).

Vehicle one (V 1) a 1993 Jeep Grand Cherokee driven by a 14-year-old male with one passenger was traveling west in the number three lane when a vehicle described as a mid 1990s Ford Taurus with four doors, driven by a female of about 50 to 55 years of age. This vehicle was changing lanes frequently and driving in an erratic manner as observed by a witness and the driver. This vehicle changed into lane three in front of V 1. The driver avoided a collision by steering to the left. V 1 entered the median of the roadway. The driver saw the lights of the on-coming traffic and steered to the right to re-enter his original lane of traffic. In order to get the vehicle under control the driver over compensated his steering actions. After it re-entered its original traffic lane, V 1 partially entered lane two and started to rotate counter clockwise. V 1 rolled over its right side onto its roof and continued to move eastward on its roof. The vehicle came to rest 40 meters (60 feet) from its initial point of roll over. The vehicle was towed from the scene. The driver and passenger were transported to a local medical facility. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side. The Critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related performance factor: overcompensation. Associated factors according to the police report: the driver was distracted while reaching for objects inside the vehicle. When he looked up he saw the non-contact vehicle being to close to his. At that point he panicked which led to his overreacted avoidance actions. The evidence found at the scene indicates the vehicle re-entered the roadway at a high rate of speed and continued to drive into lane two of the roadway. The driver was still correcting the path of the vehicle while it kept rotating until it tripped over.