This two-vehicle rear end crash occurred at a four-way straight, level, bituminous intersection with a posted speed limit of 56kph (35mph). Traffic at the intersection is controlled by traffic signals. The east/west roadway is a two way, four lane undivided roadway. The north side of the intersection consisted of two through lanes and one left turn lane. The south side of the intersection was an entrance into private parking, but had two through lanes. The crash occurred late in the afternoon on a weekday; the sky was clear and the road was dry. The traffic flow was moderate.

Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Toyota Camry with two occupants, was stopped eastbound in lane two waiting for the traffic signal to turn green. When it turned green, the driver waited for westbound traffic to clear the intersection with the intended purpose of making a left turn. Vehicle one (V1), a 1986 Toyota 4Runner with only the driver present, was traveling eastbound in lane two approaching the intersection. V1 was following a non-contact vehicle. The non-contact vehicle moved into the right lane and the front of V1 contacted the back of V2. Both vehicles came to rest on all four tires facing east. V1 was driven from the scene while V2 was towed. The two occupants in V2 were transported to a trauma center. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

An 18-year old female drove V1. Not very much information was obtained from the driver due to her refusal to talk to the researcher about the crash. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded "other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded “type of driver error unknown”.

A 36-year old female drove V2. She reported that she was going to day care from home when she saw a car pull around to the right of her and the next thing she knew she was getting hit from behind. She stated she got six hours of sleep the night before due to being, "up and down all night with the baby" and has not worked in the past seven weeks. She also stated having no physical problems but does take Ortho Tri-Cyclen

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to this driver is driver fatigue.