This crash occurred on a two-lane, two-way, undivided busy urban roadway. It occurred in mid-block where one of the vehicles attempted a left turn into a driveway in front of an oncoming vehicle. At the site, there are traffic control signal (on colors) with pedestrian signal. The purpose of the signal is to allow pedestrians to safely cross the bury roadway. The roadway is appropriately marked with stop lines and pedestrian walkway. Other roadway markings consist of double solid yellow lines indicating a no-passing zone. The roadway runs east/west with a -6% grade for eastbound traffic. This crash occurred on a clear sunny weekday in the early afternoon hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions. The speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1990 Pontiac Grand Am with one occupant, was eastbound in lane 1. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Dodge Ram Pickup with one occupant, was westbound in lane 1 with the intention to turn left into a parking lot. As V2 attempted the left turn, the front of V1 struck the right side of V2. V1 rotated clockwise and came to rest facing southwest in the eastbound lane. V2 at impact rotated clockwise as it left the south road edge. The left side of V2 struck the left side of V3 which was parked adjacent to the traffic way. V3 moved laterally and the right side struck the left side of an adjacent vehicle. V2 came to rest facing northwest adjacent to V3. V2 had cargo in the bed of the truck that consisted of a large paint dispenser. At impact the dispenser shifted and sprayed V3 & V4 with white paint. Both V1 and V2 were towed from the scene. The driver of V1 was transported to a local treatment center, the driver of V2 refused treatment. V3 and V4 were parked and unoccupied. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 46-year-old male who is self-employed. He drives the route daily and is familiar with the vehicle. He was traveling from his home to a client to collect money from a job he completed. He claimed to have a 75% hearing loss in his left ear but does not wear any hearing aid. He works 66 hours a week that includes remodeling his own home after regular job hours. He braked prior to impact but could not avoid V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded; other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction-over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V2, a 34 year-old male, was on his way from his residence to a local repair shop to have the muffler on his vehicle repaired. He stated he was halfway into the left turn when V1 came flying over the hill and hit his truck. The driver of V2 was from out of town; unfamiliar with road, and claimed he was not drinking. During the on-scene interview, the researcher smelled alcohol on the driver's breath. A witness told police that they had seen the driver throw a whiskey bottle out the passenger window prior to turning. Police retrieved the bottle. The driver refused a breath test at scene and was arrested for DUI. The driver was focused on his turn destination and did not detect V1 until too late. He claimed to be well rested. This driver failed to look far enough ahead and detect V1 approaching from the opposite direction.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason was coded: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).