This two-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of a four-lane one-way roadway and an eight-lane divided roadway. For westbound traffic there are three-lanes (one of which was closed for construction at the time of the accident). For southbound traffic there are three-travel lanes. The westbound road was dry, traveled and concrete. The southbound road was dry, traveled and asphalt. The posted speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph). Traffic was heavy at the time of the accident. This crash occurred during daylight hours with clear skies.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Ford Explorer was southbound in the first travel lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Chrysler Pacifica was stopped westbound in the second travel lane. V1 entered the intersection and the front of V1 impacted the right of V2. The driver of V1 steered to the right, departed the roadway, struck a pole to the north and came to rest facing northwest partially off the roadway. V2 did not move from the point of impact. V1 was towed due to damage. V2 could be driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a sixty-seven year old male was heading home from his daughter's house at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about ten minutes at the time of the crash. This drive stated that he thought he had enough room to make the turn. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of V2, a thirty six year old female was heading home from work at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about thirty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that she never saw the other vehicle coming. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as: this vehicle traveling; turning right at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into same direction. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event not coded to this vehicle.