The crash occurred on a level four lane undivided roadway with a posted speed limit of 48 KPH (30 MPH). The roadway curved to the right with a radius of curvature of 2,250 Meters and 0% superelevation. It was cloudy, the roadway was wet and it was daylight at the time of this afternoon weekend crash.

Vehicle 1, a 1992 Mitsubishi Galant, was traveling south in the passing lane of the four lane undivided roadway negotiating the curve to the right. Vehicle 1 crossed into and over the northbound lanes. Vehicle 1 continued off the left side of the roadway and struck the front of a parked vehicle (1999 Chevrolet Cavalier) with its left side. Vehicle 1 continued, struck and sheared an unknown diameter pole with its front. Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise, began to roll to the left and struck the back of a parked vehicle (2004 Volkswagon Jetta) with its left side. Vehicle 1 rolled onto its left side and struck the front of a parked vehicle (2001 Nissan Sentra) with its top. Vehicle 1 came to rest on its left side facing in a southerly direction. Vehicle 1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The Mitsubishi Galant (Vehicle 1) was driven by a belted 49-year-old male who was transported, treated and released for minor bleeding to the head. The driver indicated that he was testing a friend's car traveling approximately 31-40 MPH and was told he hit a pole. He does not remember any other details of the crash. He advised that he is in fair health, on disability for a bad back and takes an unspecified pain medication. He also stated that he had only three hours of sleep in the past 24 hours. He was thinking about family problems at the time of the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle 1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was an unknown type of driver error. This was chosen because there was no additional information to make a determination. Associated factors for this driver were: (a) fatigue, since he had only had 3 hours of sleep in the past 24 hours, (b) prescription drugs: an unspecified pain medication and hypertension medication. The police did consider alcohol or illegal drugs the be involved and ordered a test. The test was given 2 hours and 12 minutes after the crash at the hospital; alcohol was not detected, but was positive for opiates, cannabinoids and benzodiazepine.