This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged intersection. Both roadways are straight, undivided and consist of one lane in each direction. The speed limit on these roadways is 40 kmph (25 mph). The north/south approach lanes are controlled by stop signs. The northbound approach has a three percent downhill grade and the westbound approach has a twelve percent downhill grade. It was daylight and raining at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Ford Taurus, was westbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Econoline van, was northbound in lane one. In the intersection, the front of V1 struck the right side of V2. V2 traveled off the northwest corner of the intersection and the front struck a tree. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a sixty-year-old female, had left her home to go to work and was returning home after realizing that she had forgotten her phone. She was in good health, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle. This driver rarely drives on this roadway. She takes an unspecified medication for high blood pressure. This driver stated that she applied the brakes when she realized that V2 was not going to stop, but slid on the wet pavement.

The driver of V2, a twenty-one-year-old male, was a delivery driver and was traveling his usual route, making deliveries for Christmas. He was well rested, healthy and familiar with his vehicle. He drives this route daily. This driver stated that he was stressed due to the usual hectic holiday schedule and was thinking about finishing his route and going home. He also stated that he applied the brakes to stop at the intersection, but started sliding on the wet road and realized that he would not be able to stop. He accelerated when he noticed V1 approaching the intersection.

The pre-event movement for V1 was coded as "going straight." The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was "not coded to this vehicle."

The pre-event movement for V2 was coded as "going straight." The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "driver related factor; too fast for conditions (wet road)."