A single vehicle daytime collision occurred on a Wednesday in mid afternoon. The collision occurred on a north/south state highway that is divided, dry, has a downgrade slope, concrete, and curves to the east with a radius of 375 meters and consists of four lanes. An asphalt shoulder followed by a dirt shoulder and a steep upslope hillside borders the east edge of the highway. The highway is designated a 104 kph (65 mph) zone. The highway has a warning sign on the east shoulder that indicates the merger of the number one lane with the number two lane.

Vehicle one (V1) is a 1999 Chevrolet C3500, pickup, carrying approximately 3,000 lbs of tools and equipment need for the installation/repair to irrigation systems. Vehicle one was traveling northbound in the number two lane. As vehicle one was negotiating the curve, the left rear tire suffered partial tread separation. Vehicle one rotated clockwise as it traveled towards the east shoulder. The left door of V1 contacted the warning sign located on the east shoulder. Vehicle one proceeded to contact the hillside embankment with its rear plane. Vehicle one then rolled unto its right plane. Vehicle one came to rest facing southwest on the east shoulder. Vehicle one received rollover damage and was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of vehicle one is a 21-year-old male traveling home from a work site. The driver was listening to the radio as he was traveling. He had traveled approximately 53 kilometers (33 mi). The driver stated that he is under some stress from work. The driver was wearing non-prescription sunglasses at the time of the collision. The driver had 5.5 hours of sleep in the last 24 hours. The driver stated that he normally feels fatigued upon waking. He also stated that his job is physically strenuous. The driver has four years of driving experience, three years with this class of vehicle.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event was coded: This Vehicle Control Loss Due to non-disabling vehicle problem-partial tread separation on the left rear wheel. The critical reason was coded: vehicle related factor-tires/wheels failed. When the tread separated from the carcass, the vehicle initiated a clockwise yaw and the driver did not recover.