A four-vehicle daytime collision occurred in lane two of a divided ten-lane freeway with five-lane controlled access heading south. This portion of the roadway has five lanes of travel paved with concrete and is on a hillcrest in the area of the pre-crash travel, with a slight curve to the right. The speed limit for the road is 96 kmph (60 mph). There were overhead regulatory signs posted above various travel lanes for upcoming exits & lane control.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1991 Chevrolet Van with only a driver, was traveling south in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Honda Pilot SUV with a driver and several passengers, was heading south in lane two. Vehicle three (V3), a 1992 Toyota Camry sedan with only a driver, was heading south in lane two. Vehicle four (V4), a Cadillac Deville, was traveling south in lane two. Traffic slowed ahead of the involved vehicles, and V2 through V4 slowed with traffic. V1 did not slow in time and the front of V1 impacted with the rear of V2. V2 was pushed forward into the rear of V3. V3 was then pushed forward into the rear of V4. V1 and V3 were towed due to disabling damage, and the driver of V3 was transported for possible injury. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

A 25-year old male familiar with the road drove V1. At the time of the crash, V1 was delivering windshields. The driver of V1 stated that as they were heading south, the driver observed a small car to his left in lane three was trying to merge in front of V1, where there wasn't enough space. When the driver of V1 looked forward again, the vehicles in front had slowed, and a crash was imminent.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the critical event assigned to this driver as a driver recognition factor: external distraction. The driver admitted that had he not been paying attention to the merging vehicle, he would have been able to stop in time. An additional factor of aggressive driving: obstructing the paths of others was coded for not allowing the small car to merge.

The driver of V2 was an unknown age female. This driver refused a complete interview, but stated that she was slowing when the crash occurred. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle.

An unknown age female who was transported for possible injury drove V3. This vehicle was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle. Due to the failure to obtain a collision report, no contact information was found for the driver.