This is a three-vehicle intersection crash that occurred on a five lane bituminous roadway within the confines of a 12.2 meter (40 feet) offset four-leg intersection. The crash occurred during daylight during mid-afternoon. There were no weather or environmental issues and no roadway deficiencies noted. There were no traffic control devices for east/west traffic on the five-lane roadway. The two offset roadways for north/south traffic were each controlled by functional stop signs.

Vehicle one (V1) a 2004 Ford Taurus 4 door sedan, driven by a 25 year-old female was traveling west in the number two lane of the five-lane roadway. Vehicle two (V2) a 1993 Chevrolet 1500 series step side pickup with a fiberglass camper shell over the bed. driven by a 68 year-old male. The driver of V1 saw V2 at the stop sign to her left. This roadway to the left is the first of the two, offset, intersecting roadways. V2 accelerated from the stop sign attempting to go across the path of V1. The driver of V1 attempted to steer right and applied the brakes. This maneuver was not successful and the front of V1 struck the right side passenger door of V2. This impact occurred in the number one westbound lane at the intersection with the two-way roadway on the right. This roadway was controlled by a functional stop sign. Vehicle three (V3) a 2003 Chevrolet S-10 pick-up driven by a 55 year-old male with one passenger was stopped at the stop line waiting to make a right turn. The impact between V1 and V2 caused both vehicles to collide in a second left side impact to V1 and a second right side impact to V-2. V2 continued to travel forward and right until the front of V2 struck the front of V3. This impact caused V3 to be pushed against the right curb and did damage to both the wheel and rim of the right front wheel. V1 was facing generally northwest at final rest and was in contact with V2. V2 was facing generally northwest at final rest and was in contact with V2 and V3. V3 was facing generally southwest at final rest and was in contact with V2. V1, V2 and V3 were all towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 25 year old female working two jobs totaling 65.5 hours per week. She was coming from the primary place of employment to the secondary place of employment. She was not late but was very close to being late. She had driven about three miles at the time of the crash and was about 1.6 kilometers (1 mile) from her destination. She was an experienced driver, familiar with both the roadway and vehicle. She had about seven and a half hours of sleep the night before and was not taking any medications.

The driver of V2 was a 68- year old male who was going to his home after completion of an eight-hour workday. He had driven about 4.8 kilometers (3 miles) at the time of the crash and was about four miles from his residence. He works an average of eight hours a day and forty hours per week. He was a very experienced driver, familiar with both the roadway and his vehicle. He had about seven hours sleep the night before and was not taking any medications.

The driver of V3 was a 55- year old male who was with his wife running errands. This driver is disabled and has an artificial limb. The vehicle is equipped with an overhead, wheelchair lift. This driver requires a wheelchair for general movement although it does not interfere with his driving of the vehicle. The vehicle interior is not equipped with any handicap controls. He is unemployed and retired. He had driven about 8 kilometers (5 miles) at the time of the crash. He had about nine hours of sleep the night before and was taking numerous medications. He refused to provide any information regarding the specific medications being taken.

The driver of V1 attempted to avoid by both steering right and braking. There were no sight line restrictions. She clearly saw V2 accelerate while making a left turn across her path. The driver of V2 made no avoidance efforts. He clearly saw V1 approaching "pretty fast", faster than he thought and misjudged both speed and distance. The driver of V3 was stopped at a stop sign waiting to make a right turn and made no avoidance efforts.

The critical reason for the critical pre-event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment, from a crossing street, across path. The critical event was not coded to this vehicle.

The critical reason for the critical pre-event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical event was coded as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed. This driver stated he saw V1 and thought he had enough time to make the maneuver.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event and the critical reason was not coded to this vehicle..