This single vehicle crash occurred mid-morning on a residential street. The weather was clear and the road was dry and there were no visibility problems. The roadway was a two way, two lane, undivided straight, bituminous surface with a double yellow centerline and 1.6 meter (5 feet) wide paved shoulders. There were no curbs or sidewalks. The westbound approach to the crash location was a negative 5% grade. Just past the site, the roadway makes a 90-degree turn to the right. The posted speed limit was 40 kmph (25 mph). There is an advisory sign just prior to the crash location indicating a 90-degree right turn with an advisory speed of 24 kmph (15 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Ford Explorer XLT 4 door SUV with on occupant, was traveling westbound down the hill. The driver stated his brakes failed when he tried to turn right on his normal route to his place of work. He tried the emergency brake, but it did not work either. The driver started weaving left and right in an attempt to slow the vehicle. As he approached the crash site another vehicle (witness #1) ahead of him in the road slowed for the sharp left curve ahead. The driver of V1 steered his vehicle to the right into a yard to avoid striking the other vehicle. V1 struck a large rock and a tree. V1 continued forward for approximately 3.5 meters (11.5 feet) before coming to rest. V1 was towed due to damage. The driver was not injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1 is a 22 year-old male who has been driving for 9 months. He is familiar with the vehicle but rarely drives the route although he was on his way to work. He was not distracted but was late for work at the time. He had no pre-existing health conditions and was well rested. Both the driver and the PAR stated the service brake and emergency brake failed. The failure was not verified during the vehicle inspection. The odometer reading at the inspection was 319,742 kilometers (198, 678 miles). A witness to the crash who was traveling in front of V1 saw the vehicle weaving in the roadway before it ran off the road.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded "this vehicle control loss due to -disabling vehicle failure." The critical reason was coded "vehicle related factor-brakes failed."