The crash occurred on the west roadside of a two-way, north/south, residential roadway. There was a lane of travel in both directions but no lane markings. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 40kmph (25 mph) and a level grade. Conditions were daylight and dry with cloudy skies. The setting was morning hours on a weekday.

V1 was a 2005 Ford Mustang convertible accelerating southbound in lane one. V1 accelerated aggressively causing the vehicle to travel partially into the oncoming lane. The driver steered right but overcorrected, sending v1 off the roadway to the right. V1 rotated clockwise and struck a telephone pole with its left plane. The impact caused V1 to rotate clockwise further, striking a chain link fence with its rear plane and then front plane in the process. V1 came to rest facing southeast partially in the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1.

V1 was driven by a 16-year-old male driver who was treated on scene for possible injuries. His right front passenger was also treated on scene for possible injuries. The driver was taking medication for Attention Deficit Hyper activity Disorder. He stated that he was accelerating in the traffic lane and had just shifted into second gear when he lost control of the vehicle. It veered left and he steered right. He subsequently steered left but the vehicle had already begun traveling off the right roadside. He estimated his impact speed to be 40kmph (25 mph). However, the investigating officer estimated V1's travel speed to be closer to 72kmph (45 mph). The convertible was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was this vehicle control loss due to traveling too fast for conditions. The Critical Reason was a driver related factor of aggressive driving behavior. The driver's behavior was determined to be aggressive due to the excessive speed used on this small, residential street located within a school zone. The 16-year old driver was driving his dad's sports car as a special privilege on the last day of school, and had just picked up a friend at school to give him a ride in the car. The circumstances and scene evidence would suggest a "joyride". Other associated factors include poor directional control as well as inexperience as the driver had only been licensed for a few months.