This crash occurred in the early afternoon of a weekday in the middle of a four-way suburban intersection. The intersection consisted of a north/south 5-lane (two lanes each direction, center turn lane) roadway intersected by an east/west 5-lane (two lanes each direction center turn lane) roadway controlled by a properly functioning traffic signal. The bituminous north/south roadway was dry and straight with a slight positive slope. The posted speed was 56 kmph (35 mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1995 Cadillac De Ville, was stopped at the intersection facing south in lane three waiting for the signal to change so it could turn left. V2, a 2000 Dodge Dakota was northbound in lane two approaching the same intersection where it intended to go straight. When the light turned green V1 began its left. As V1 continued the turn its driver saw a police vehicle with activated lights sirens approaching the intersection from the east. V1 stopped in the middle of the intersection in response to the approaching police vehicle. V2 entered the intersection and struck the front of V1 with its front left corner. Both vehicles came to final rest in the intersection and were both towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 44-year-old male, claimed to be in good health despite taking prescribed medications for diabetes, high blood pressure, and depression. He was on his way to pick up insurance at the time of the crash. He stated that when the light changed he had enough space to complete his turn, but stopped not knowing were to go when he saw the police car approach. He than saw V2 enter the intersection and he braced for impact. He was not injured in the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling over the lane line left side of travel lane. The Critical Reason was coded as a driver related error panic or freezing. The associated factors coded to V1 include an incorrect evasive action (he should have cleared the intersection and not stopped) as well as the approaching police vehicle disputing the traffic pattern.

The driver of V2, a 37-year-old male in good health was wearing his corrective lenses for a myopic condition at the time of the crash. He was on his way home from work when the crash occurred. He stated he was northbound in lane 2 as the traffic light turned green. He noted the vehicle in the left facing south had room to turn left and clear the intersection. He watched as the vehicle started its turn and stop in the middle of the intersection. He braked but could not avoid V1. He only saw the police vehicle with its lights and siren on after he entered the intersection. He sustained minor injuries and was going to be checked out at a later date.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The associated factors coded to this vehicle include inadequate surveillance (he failed to see the approaching police vehicle) as well as a false assumption (he assumed the other driver would turn without stopping).

The policeman in the approaching the intersection served as a witness and stated that the southbound vehicle had the space to make his turn but stopped quickly when he noticed his police vehicle approaching. He enough time to complete his turn before his vehicle reached the intersection, but stopped instead. He also stated that the northbound vehicle did not note the police vehicle until after final rest.