This two-vehicle crash occurred near an intersection on a straight, level, undivided roadway that has two lanes in each direction. The speed limit on this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1988 Mercury Sable, was northbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 GMC Sierra 1500 pickup, was northbound in front of V1. V2 stopped due to a non-contact vehicle that was turning at the intersection. The front of V1 struck the back of V2. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a sixty-four-year-old female, was traveling from a beauty shop to her home. She was well rested and familiar with her vehicle and the route. She has diabetes and takes the medications Accupril, Diliazem, Metformin, Lipitor and Glucotrol XL. This driver stated that she applied the brakes when she realized that V2 was stopped but skidded and was not able to avoid the crash.

The driver of V2, a fifty-eight-year-old male, was on a work-related trip from one business to another business. He was well rested, in fairly good health and comfortable with his vehicle and route. He takes the medications Gemfibrozil, Trazodone, Ranitidine and Vardenafil. This driver stated that he was stopped for more than ten seconds before the crash.

The pre-event movement for V1 was coded as "going straight." The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; other vehicle stopped." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)."

The pre-event movement for V2 was coded as "going straight." The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."