The crash occurred at a three-leg intersection. The north/south street was a two-way, three-lane, undivided roadway controlled by a stop sign. The east/west street was a two-way, five-lane roadway with a two-way left turn lane in the center. These were straight, level, asphalt roads, with an east/west posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). Conditions were daylight on a weekend afternoon with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 2005 Chevy Cobalt, was stopped at the stop sign, facing south, waiting to turn right. V2, a 1999 Honda Accord, was traveling westbound in lane one. As the driver of V1 attempted to turn, the front of V2 made contact with the left side of V1. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

V1, the Chevy Cobalt, was driven by a 59 year-old male, who was not injured. He stated that he was on his way from one church member's house to another, as part of a community program. He said that he came to a complete stop, but the stop line was set back so far from the intersection that his sightline to cross-traffic was hampered somewhat by a fence and a utility pole. The driver said that before he pulled out he looked to his left, but did not see anything coming. As he entered the intersection, he took a second glance to his left and saw the other vehicle, but it was too late.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, turning right at intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a recognition error, inadequate surveillance. The driver looked in the required direction, but did not see approaching traffic. One associated factor for this driver was the presence of a sightline restriction. The driver's view was obstructed by a roadside appurtenance. Another associated factor was a performance error. After the driver had committed to the right turn and was already in the path of V2, the driver of V1 panicked, applying the brakes.

V2, the Honda Accord, was driven by a 35 year-old male, who was not injured. He stated that he was going home from the corner convenient store. He saw the other driver waiting at the intersection. Suddenly, the other driver turned in front of him. He stated that he locked his brakes but could not stop in time.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, turning into same direction". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle, nor were there any associated factors for the driver.