This two-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours on a weekday. The crash occurred at the intersection of a straight, level, five-lane, two-way, east-west, bituminous roadway and a two-way private business driveway that intersects the south curb of the main roadway. The speed limit on the main roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph); there is no posted limit in the private drive. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions, and the roadway was in good repair.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Toyota RAV-4 compact SUV, was stopped in the private drive and waiting to turn left into westbound traffic on the main roadway. Vehicle two (V2), a 1990 Ford Escort 2-door hatchback, was traveling eastbound in the second lane of the main roadway an approaching the private drive on its right with the intention of continuing straight. As V1 made its turn, the front of V1 impacted the front of V2. Both vehicles deflected east to final rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The 47-year-old female driver of V1 reported that she was leaving a shopping center for home, and had been stopped for about two minutes before turning. She stated that she never saw V2's approach before the impact. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related recognition error, inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

The 68-year-old female driver of V2 reported that she is diabetic and takes Glyburide twice a day. She was not experiencing any diabetes-related symptoms at the time of the crash. She was traveling home from a restaurant. She stated that she did not see V1 until after it had turned into her path. She applied the brakes and tried to steer left, but was unable to avoid a crash. She reported that there were other vehicles in the first eastbound lane, which might have obstructed the view of traffic between her and the private drive. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment, from driveway, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.