This two-vehicle crash occurred in a T-type intersection. The north/south roadway is straight and divided by a curbed median. The northbound lanes have a 3% downgrade and consist of two through lanes. The speed limit on this roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph). The east/west roadway (on the right side of the northbound lanes) is undivided, level and consists of one lane in each direction. The westbound lane is controlled by a stop sign at the intersection with the north/south roadway. The speed limit on this roadway is 40 kmph (25 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Nissan Pathfinder, was stopped at the stop sign in the westbound lane, waiting to turn left (south). V2, a 1988 GMC Safari, was northbound in lane two, intending to continue straight through the intersection. The driver of V1 waited for a northbound non-contact vehicle to pass and was focused on southbound traffic. When the southbound traffic cleared, the driver of V1 proceeded into the intersection. The driver of V2 noticed V1 pulling out and applied the brakes (with lockup) and steered left. The front of V1 struck the front of V2. Both vehicles rotated and moved to the northwest. Both vehicles came to rest in the intersection and were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-five-year-old female, was traveling with her fifteen-year-old son, from a store to their home. She was healthy, well rested, familiar with her vehicle and drives on this roadway weekly. This driver stated that she waited for the northbound vehicle and then checked for southbound traffic. Once the southbound traffic cleared, she failed to look left again before entering the intersection.

The driver of V2, a fifty-eight-year-old male, was traveling between two stores with a thirty-five-year-old female and a ten-year-old female. He was conversing with his passengers just before the crash but remained focused on the driving task. He was healthy, well rested, familiar with his vehicle and drives on this roadway daily.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "not coded to this vehicle."