This single vehicle crash took place during morning hours on an east/westbound street. This street had one lane for travel in each direction, east and west, and the travel lanes were physically undivided. The posted speed limit for this street was 40 kmph (25 kph). The weather was clear, the asphalt surface was dry, and though the roadway just prior to the first impact was slightly curved and on an uphill incline, the roadway was generally level and free of any defect.

Vehicle 1 (V1), a 1994 Toyota Land Cruiser driven by a 32-year-old female, was traveling westbound in lane 1. The main witness to this crash was an individual who just happened to be driving behind V1. According to this witness he stated that he was very aware of V1's presence, but that V1 was not doing anything out of the ordinary. The witness stated that the driver of V1 was not driving aggressively or speeding in anyway, and was maintaining her lane very well. After both vehicles negotiated two uphill curves and were approaching a very straight and level portion of the roadway, the witness explained that it looked as if V1 was about to make a left turn onto a side-street (though there was no turn-signal activated) when all of a sudden, it seemed as if she changed her mind and attempted to steer back to the right. According to the witness, it was at this point that V1 just "hit the gas". (verbatim) V1 accelerated and instead of returning to her travel lane V1 struck the southwest curb of an intersection with her front right tire and departed the roadway. This was the first impact of twenty-three. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The witness continued to drive along in his travel lane as he watched V1 travel the entire length of one block downing residential railings, breaking concrete steps, and then when V1 reached the end of the block it literally drove over a stop sign pole, bending it to the ground. V1 continued across the street and entered a second residential block where it continued to cause the same type of damage as it had caused on the previous block. Additionally on this block, V1 struck 2-parked vehicles causing disabling damage to both. At the end of this second block, V1 struck a raised concrete wall and came to its final rest. According to this witness and other neighbors who were standing outside at the time of the crash, the driver quickly exited her vehicle and began to pray in a language that they did not recognize. A medic unit arrived and took the driver to an ER for evaluation. The witness who had been driving behind V1 stated that he was certain that she must have had a heart attack or some other physical emergency based on the way she accelerated and traveled out of control for as long as she did without attempting to brake, steer, or return to the roadway. He stated that he was shocked to see that the driver was fully conscious and apparently healthy.

A second witness, who did not see the first harmful, had just returned home from dropping her grandchild off at daycare, parked her vehicle, and stepped onto the curb. She stated, "From what I seen ... she came up here (witness pointed to the front yards and sidewalks), she hit the railing and I looked up and I seen the car coming down and it was over my head and it comes down, and I start screaming for someone to help me ... cause I thought it was going to land on me." (verbatim) This witness was so close to V1 that hot fluid from the vehicle splattered across her exposed foot as V1 passed by her. (witness was wearing sandals) This witness also explained that V1 then smashed into her vehicle that she had just parked, as well as the vehicle parked behind hers, and then V1 struck the wall and came to its final rest. The distance between where V1 first struck the curb and the wall where it came to its final rest was 160 meters. (528 feet)

While the researcher was surveying the extensive crash scene, the driver of V1 returned to her vehicle from the emergency room. Two relatives were escorting her. When the driver was asked what had happened, the driver stated that it was all up to God. When asked if she had attempted to try to take control of her vehicle once she left the roadway she said no and that she had panicked. A relative of hers then said something to her in French Creole and the driver of V1 was unwilling to say anything else. Many attempts were made to re-contact this driver including a visit to her residence. The driver did not return phone calls, respond to a mailed letter, or answer her door.

The Critical Pre-Crash Category and Event coded to V1 was: "This Vehicle Traveling/Off the edge of the road on the left side". The Critical Reason for Critical Pre-Crash Event was coded as: "Driver Related Factor/Unknown performance error". Pre-first harmful event maneuvers coded to this vehicle were: a lane departure to the left side and a road departure to the left side.

The driver of V1 spent less than 2 hours in the emergency room where she complained of mild pain to her neck, back, arm, and abdomen. She was diagnosed with a motor vehicle related neck strain.