This two-vehicle crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a five-lane roadway divided by a painted median. There were two southbound lanes. There was one left turn lane and two through lanes for northbound traffic. This was a straight, level and bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). It was early afternoon on a weekend and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was moderate.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 four-door Honda Accord driven by a 75-year-old female, was traveling southbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a four-door 2000 Chevrolet Malibu driven by a 59-year-old female, was traveling southbound in lane one in front of V1. V1 was traveling a police reported speed of 72 kmph (45 mph) and V2 was driving a police reported speed of 64 kmph (40 mph). The front of V1 struck the back of V2. After the impact, V1 departed the right side of the road and drove along the curb for 24.8 meters (81.4 feet). At this point, the front of V1 struck the right side of V2. V1 came to rest on its wheels facing southeast on the curbed side of the road. V2 was driven to final rest after the second impact and stopped on its wheels in lane one facing south. V1 was towed from the scene due to moderate frontal damage. V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 drives this route daily and is comfortable with her vehicle. She stated she is retired. Her husband left two months ago and she has no idea where he is. She also stated that taking care of everything in the house plus the surgery is taking a toll on her. She has diverticulitis, arthritis and Meniere's disease, with 24% hearing loss. She takes Ambien, Protonix, Gingkoba, Hydrocodone/apap, Vitamins and unknown eyesight pills on a regular basis. She only wears glasses for reading and was not wearing them at the time of the crash. She sleeps eight hours a night and wakes up rested. She had leg surgery nineteen days before and had left home to go to a medical center to get a band for her leg. She was not in a hurry. She had placed her canes on the front passenger side of the car. The canes distracted her when they fell over and she took her eyes off the road to adjust them. The driver failed to look far enough ahead before reaching for the canes and did not realize she was too close to V2.

The driver of V2 stated she had just left her house and was driving to her daughter's house to visit her and the grandchildren. She drives this roadway daily and feels comfortable with her vehicle. She stated she is retired and visits her daughter and grandchild almost everyday. She has high blood pressure and takes aspirin on a daily basis. She is near-sighted and wears glasses. She usually sleeps five to six hours a night and wakes up rested, but the night before the crash, she slept seven and one half hours.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with lower steady speed." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: internal distraction.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle.