This two-vehicle crash occurred in the early afternoon of a weekday in the middle of a four-way urban intersection. The intersection was composed of two, two-lane roadways controlled by stop signs in all directions. Both roadways were bituminous, dry, straight, and level with posted speed limits of 56kmph (35 mph). There was curbside parking on each side of all of the travel lanes. The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1994 Nissan Maxima, was northbound in lane one approaching the intersection where it intended to go straight. V2, a 1999 Ford Taurus, was stopped eastbound at the stop sign preparing to continue through the intersection. As V1 neared the intersection, a non-contact vehicle entered V1's lane from its parking spot. V1 swerved to the left and enter the intersection. V1's front struck V2's right side as it crossed the intersection. After the initial contact V2 continued traveling and struck, with its front, the stop sign located on the northeast corner of the intersection before coming to final rest facing north. V1, after the impact, rotated slightly clockwise and came to final rest in the intersection facing east. Both V1 & V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a 37-year-old male, said he was traveling northbound at approximately 56kmph (35 mph) approaching the intersection. He saw a vehicle leave its parking position and he swerved to avoid it, entering the intersection. He was familiar with the intersection, as he travels on it daily. He first saw the non-contact vehicle parked on the roadside, he said, and than noticed V3 leaving its parking position, causing him to make an evasive action to avoid hitting it. He steered left and then right to avoid striking it however, he could do nothing to avoid striking V2. He was transported to the hospital by EMS on scene.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason was not coded to V1; hoever, several associated factors were coded to the driver. Associated factors for the driver of V1 include incorrect evasive action, conversing with his passenger as well as inadequate surveillance and an illegal maneuver.

The driver of V2, a 67-year old female, was eastbound when she came to a complete stop at the corner of the intersection. She began to accelerate had gotten almost completely through the intersection when she was struck by V1 traveling northbound. She could not add much to the crash sequence because she was shaken by the events and it all happened so fast. She was transported to the hospital by the EMS to be checked out.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded this vehicle traveling - crossing over intersection. The Critical Reason was coded as inadequate surveillance because the driver of V2 failed to look to her right before entering the intersection. Associated factors coded to the driver of V2 include the physical conditions of hypertension and high cholesterol and the use of prescription medications to treat these conditions.