This two-vehicle crash occurred on a straight, one-way, four-lane off-ramp with traffic lights and pedestrian signals for controls. The road runs westbound with one right turn lane one straight/left turn lane and two left turn lanes. The speed limit on the ramp is 105 kph (65 mph) and the advisory is 72 kph (45 mph). There were no adverse weather conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one, a 1994 Honda Accord was westbound in lane three. Vehicle two, a 1999 Ford F150 was stopped at the red light in front of vehicle one. Vehicle one failed to stop and impacted with its front to vehicle two's back. Vehicle one came to rest on its wheels at impact facing west. Vehicle two was pushed forward and came to rest on its wheels facing west. Vehicle one was towed due to damage. Vehicle two was towed due to the lack of a driver. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a thirty-four year old male was driving to work from home. This driver did not know how long he had been driving on this trip but had driven about twenty miles. This driver had only been driving for about six months at the time of trip. This driver stated that he was up late the previous night playing tennis, till about 2200. This driver stated that he was tired and sore. In the interview this driver stated that he fell asleep while driving. This drivers sleep pattern also changed in the last seven days, this driver was on business related travel the previous week and had just come back and his sleep pattern changes. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a fifty five year old male was stopped at the stoplight. This driver had been stopped for about ten seconds. The driver indicated that he was driving to a morning breakfast meeting. He stated that he was a little late but was not in a hurry. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as “other motor vehicle in lane: other vehicle stopped”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for this crash was attributed to vehicle one and was coded as “driver related factor: sleepy, that is actually asleep”. The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “other vehicle in lane: traveling in same direction with higher speed”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “not coded to this vehicle”.