This two-vehicle crash occurred at a "T" type intersection of a 5-lane asphalt roadway and a 2-lane asphalt roadway. This intersection is controlled by a stop sign for the 2-lane northbound traffic. The northbound travel lane is straight and slightly uphill prior to the stop sign. The east and westbound roadway is straight and level. The speed limit for the area is 72 kmph (45 mph). The crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse weather or road conditions present.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Oldsmobile Intrigue 4-door sedan, was stopped at the stop sign facing north with the intention of turning left (west). V1 proceeded to turn left and with its left front corner contacted the right side plane of Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Chevrolet S-10 pickup that was eastbound in the #2 lane. V2 was pushed across the center turn lane then rotated counter-clockwise as it crossed the westbound lanes where it rolled right 4 quarter turns coming to rest on the westbound roadside facing north. V1 crossed all lanes as it rotated counter-clockwise and came to rest in the #1 westbound lane facing east. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 47-year-old female, is a house-cleaner and was coming from her last job of the day headed home. Traffic was heavy at this time of the day. She had stopped at the required stop sign for a couple of minutes and when a large truck in the #1 eastbound lane slowed to turn right onto the street she was coming from, she did not see Vehicle #2 next to it in the #2 lane. She began to turn left and impacted V2. She also made a statement to police that the setting sun was in her eyes and contributed to the crash. She has been driving for only 7 months. She stated that her husband, who passed away, did all of the driving and she never cared to but now needs to for her job. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a monthly basis.

The driver of V2, a 52-year-old male, was traveling to a weekend cabin in another town. His wife was a passenger and their dog was in the bed of the truck within a pet containment area. They had stopped for gas and coffee after traveling 2 hours from their residence. The driver stated that a large truck to the right of him was turning right and blocked his view of V1 as it began to turn left in front of him. He steered left and braked but was unable to avoid the crash. This driver was taking Viagra and Vytorin as medications. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road several times a month.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver recognition error: other decision error (specified as: turned with obstructed view).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.