This crash occurred in a 4-way intersection controlled by signalized traffic control devices in all directions. The north/south roadway was a 4-lane undivided roadway (2 lanes in each direction). The westbound approach to the intersection was a 2-lane undivided roadway. The eastbound approach to the intersection was a 3-lane undivided roadway (1 lane in each direction and a left turn-only lane in the eastbound direction). The east/west roadway was straight, bituminous, and level with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The north/south roadway was a straight, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 80 kmph (50 mph). The crash occurred early on a weekday morning, the roads were dry and skies were clear. It was the end of rush hour and the intersection was slightly congested with stop-and-go activity.

V1, a 2000 Lexus GS 300 4-door with two occupants, was traveling westbound in lane 1 intending to continue straight through the intersection. V2, a 2002 Toyota Camry 4-door with one occupant, was stopped at the intersection in the first southbound lane, intending to also continue straight through the intersection. V3, a 1999 Oldsmobile Silhouette minivan with three occupants, was stopped at the intersection in the eastbound left turn-only lane, intending to turn left to head north. As V1 approached the intersection, the cars in front of her were slowing down, one to make a left turn and the car directly in front of her to make a right. She observed a yellow light at some point before traveling through the intersection and saw the cars in front of her traveling through the intersection as well. At some point either before entering the intersection or as she was in the intersection, the light turned red for V1 and green for V2. The driver of V2 was only looking at the light, not at the intersection, and started to go when the light turned green. V2 struck the right rear of V1 in the intersection. Neither drivers saw the other vehicle approaching and were not able to avoid the collision. V3 was stopped facing east, waiting at the light in lane 2, and its driver observed V2 striking V1, and the force of that impact forced the left rear of V1 to strike the left front of V3. All vehicles came to final rest near their point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the 2000 Lexus, was driven by a 25-year-old female. Both the driver and her occupant reported "C" injuries and were transported to the hospital. She stated that she and a friend were coming home from spending the night at a friend's house in the next town. She stated that as she approached the light she observed that the light was yellow and saw the other cars in front of her still passing through the intersection so she did too. Since it was rush hour, the traffic was slightly congested approaching the intersection and she observed the cars in front of her slowing down to make a left and a right turn at the light. She did not look at the light one final time before passing through the intersection and does not know if the light was still yellow or if it had now changed to red, but she continued through the intersection anyways. She did not see V2 pulling out into the intersection and therefore did nothing to attempt to avoid the collision.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "Other vehicle encroachment from crossing street across path." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle; however, some associated factors were coded to the driver. First of all, the driver of V1 was coded for an illegal maneuver, because she ran a red light. Another associated factor coded to this driver was an exterior distraction because she was too concerned with looking at what the drivers in front of her were doing to give one final glance at the light to make sure it was still yellow. An associated factor coded to all three drivers was a traffic flow interruption because of the rush hour traffic with its stop-and-go traffic pattern.

V2, the Toyota Camry, was driven by a 63-year-old female who reported no injuries. The driver was traveling home from physical therapy and was waiting at the traffic light intending to head south through the intersection in travel lane 1. She was stopped at the light for a little bit of time before the light turned green. The driver started to go when she saw the light turned green and thought that the intersection was clear for her to pass through. She did not see V1 until the vehicles were too close to each other to avoid the collision.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "This vehicle traveling - crossing over (passing through) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as inadequate surveillance because the driver of V2 failed to look to either side ahead before proceeding into the intersection. Although the driver had the right of way due to the green light she should have not assumed the intersection was clear because drivers frequently attempt to beat the yellow light and pass through the intersection when they no longer have the right of way. Associated factors coded to the driver of V2 include the physical conditions of recent knee surgery and high blood pressure for which she takes two prescription medications. Rush hour traffic was also coded.

V3, the Oldsmobile Silhouette, was driven by a 34-year-old male with two occupants; none reported injuries. The driver was coming from his home on the way to the doctor's office for a checkup for their infant. The driver was stopped in travel lane two on the eastbound approach of the intersection intending to make a left. The force of the first impact caused V1's rear to hit into the left front of V3.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. Therefore, no Critical Pre-crash Event or Critical Reason was coded to the driver. One associated factor coded to this driver was that the driver was fatigued from having to stay up with an infant. The night before the accident the driver only got 5.5 hours of sleep and in the months since the baby was born, the driver stated that he has only gotten an average of 6 hours sleep a night. Rush hour traffic was also coded as an associated factor.