This two-vehicle crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a five-lane roadway divided by a double yellow lane line. There were three eastbound lanes and two westbound lanes. The crash occurred right before a tri-light controlled intersection with pedestrian crossings. The roadway is bituminous asphalt and has a speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). It was in the afternoon on a weekday and the road was wet and it was slightly raining. Traffic was flowing normally.

Vehicle one, a 2002 Dodge Stratus was eastbound in the second lane. Vehicle two, a 1994 Dodge Intrepid was eastbound in the second lane in front of vehicle one. As vehicle two approached the intersection it stopped with a green light. The front of vehicle one struck the rear of vehicle two. Both vehicles came to final rest at impact. Vehicle one was towed from the scene. Vehicle two was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a forty-eight year old female stated that she might have blacked out for a minute due to a blood sugar problem. She is an insulin dependent diabetic. She further advised that she was following vehicle two and all of a sudden she saw vehicle two right in front of her. She doesn't remember if she depressed the brake. She stated she didn't put her foot on the brake but witnesses saw the front of V1 nosedive and heard the tires on the pavement. This driver was taking Humulin, Actos, Lipitor, Lisinopril and Voltarin as medications. The paramedics on-scene tested driver one's sugar level and got a reading of 35, which is very low. She was given glucose on-scene. When interviewing driver one she was asked if she had eaten today. The only thing she had eaten was a bowl of cereal that morning. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a twenty-eight year old female was listed on the police report as the right front passenger. Two witnesses placed this passenger as the driver. This driver was not interviewed. Medical records indicate that this driver was not taking any medications. An associated factor for aggressive driving (suddenly stopping) and other decision factor (stopped when not required) are present for this driver.

There were two witnesses in a non-contact vehicle sitting on the north side of the intersection. The witnesses stated that their light was red and they could see the green light for eastbound traffic. They stated that vehicle one stopped abruptly in the roadway for no reason-causing vehicle one to strike vehicle two. They further stated that they saw the nose of vehicle one dive forward and heard the tires on the pavement sliding due to the wet roadway. The driver of the non-contact vehicle pulled into the turn lane. Both witnesses exited their vehicle and observed the "younger" of the adults in the vehicle, exit the driver's side of the vehicle and begin to curse and scream at driver two. She stated that her kids were injured and she wanted driver one's insurance information to take her kids to the hospital. She further stated that she was going to sue. While this was going on the two kids occupying the back seat exited the vehicle and were running around. The witnesses stated that the driver yelled at the kids and told them they were hurt and to get back into the car. They further stated that the "older" adult came over to them and said she had previous back problems previous to this crash. She further stated that she didn't know why her daughter was acting that way. The witnesses further stated that when the EMS arrived they took the older of the children out of the back seat on a backboard. The witnesses are positive the younger adult was driving the vehicle. By the time this researcher was on scene V2 had already been driven from the scene. Three of the four occupants of V2 were treated and released. However, it is unknown if the younger child was taken by EMS or driven by driver two.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded: other motor vehicle in lane: other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded as driver related critical non-performance factor: heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act. The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling at higher speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was not coded to this vehicle.