A two vehicle daytime collision occurred around noon on a clear Saturday. The collision occurred at a four-leg intersection comprised by a north/south roadway and an east/west roadway. The north/south roadway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of seven lanes. The east/west roadway is divided, dry, level, and asphalt. The west leg has four eastbound lanes and three westbound lanes. The east leg has three eastbound lanes and four westbound lanes. A raised concrete island separates the eastbound and westbound lanes. Both roadways are designated 56 kmph (35 mph) zones. The intersection is controlled by tri-light signals that were functioning properly at the time of the collision.

Vehicle one (V1) is a 1998 Honda Accord, four-door, sedan traveling eastbound in the number one lane. Vehicle two (V2) is a 1995 Ford Probe, two-door hatchback, traveling southbound in the number three lane. As V1 traveled through the intersection, the front plane of V2 contacted its right plane. The impact rotated both vehicles towards southeast and they side-slapped with each other. The vehicles continued forward towards the east curb of the southeast corner of the intersection. The front plane of V2 contacted the east curb, and then contacted a tri-light signal located east of the east curb. V1 also contacted the east curb with its front plane and came to rest facing southeast against the east curb. V2 came to rest facing southeast partially on the sidewalk and against the east curb and tri-light signal. Both vehicles were towed with major damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 46-year-old female traveling with her 18-year-old daughter. The driver was en route from a gas station to a shoe store. The driver had taken her daughter to a therapy session at a psychologist's office and was taking the daughter to a shoe store as a reward for getting through the therapy session. The driver's daughter had a party scheduled 6 hours after the time of the crash. As the vehicle approached the intersection, the driver was talking to her passenger about the new building that was opening on the southeast corner of the intersection. The driver and passenger were also listening to music on the radio. The driver takes Loratadine (AKA Claritin) every night for allergies. The driver was wearing eyeglasses for a hyperopic condition. The driver is a caretaker for an elderly woman and considers her job to be stressful by nature. She rarely drives through the collision's intersection and this is only the second time she has driven through it. The driver has been driving for four years, however her license expired two years prior to the crash. The driver was adamant that her light was green as she drove through the intersection; however, she was unsure if she had stopped at the intersection for a red light, prior to proceeding into it.

The driver of V2 is a 53-year-old female traveling home from an uncle's home. The driver was listening to radio. The driver has five years of driving experience. She drives through the collision's intersection at least once a month. The driver had planned on making a left at the intersection, however she decided to avoid traffic by proceeding straight. The driver was adamant that her light was green.

One of the witnesses stated that both vehicles were going through the intersection. She stated that the light turned yellow as V1 was passing through. She also stated that V1's driver might have been on the cell phone because she observed her talking on the cell phone after the collision. The witness stated it was possible she was on the cell phone calling for assistance.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was coded: This Vehicle Traveling - Crossing Over (Passing Through) Intersection. The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was coded: Other Vehicle Encroachment - From Crossing Street, Across Path.

The Critical Reason was assigned to V1 as a driver recognition factor: External Distraction. The driver was too preoccupied attempting to make her daughter feel better through conversation, that she failed to realize that the light was still red. The driver was discussing the new building on the southeast corner.