This two-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours on a weekday. The crash occurred on a straight, level stretch of a five-lane, positively divided, concrete expressway. The speed limit in the area of the crash is 105 kmph (65 mph). A wide, paved shoulder borders the right-most travel lane. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions, and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Nissan Quest minivan, was traveling southbound in the first lane, approaching slower traffic ahead. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Mercedes-Benz C280 4-door sedan, was ahead of V1 in the same lane, decelerating. A marked state police cruiser was behind V1. The front of V1 impacted the back of V2. Both vehicles moved ahead and came to rest in their original lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1 and 80 kmph for V2.

The 30-year-old female driver of V1 has eleven years driving experience, but only five years in the United States. She was traveling with her two small children in the back seat, but did not report any internal distractions in her vehicle. She reported that the state police vehicle had been following closely behind her for about 1.6 kilometers (one mile), indicating that she had been monitoring the police vehicle. She reported that she believed V2 must have veered suddenly in front of her and stopped quickly, because she did not see any vehicles in front of her. The police report indicates that V2 was originally in the same lane. When the driver of V1 realized V2 was slowing in front of her, she applied the brakes, but did not attempt to steer away from the crash, despite the availability of the paved shoulder to her right. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related decision error, inadequate evasive action, e.g., braking only, not braking and steering.

The 63-year-old female driver of V2 refused to be interviewed. She reported to police that she was slowing for stopped traffic ahead when the impact occurred. She did not see V1's approach. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.