This two-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours on a weekend afternoon. The crash occurred in a residential area, at the four-leg intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway. The intersection is controlled by stop signs for northbound and southbound traffic; the speed limit is 40 kmph (25 mph) in all directions. Both roadways are straight, level, two-lane, two-way roads with no visible defects. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Chrysler Aspen 4-door SUV, was traveling northbound in the first lane, approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Ford Taurus 4-door sedan, was traveling westbound in the first lane, approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. In the intersection, the front of V1 impacted the left side of V2. The vehicles rotated toward each other and the right side of V1 contacted the left side of V2 in a side-slap configuration. The vehicles separated and deflected northwest. Both vehicles departed the road over the northwest corner and both impacted a wooden fence frontally. V1 came to rest along the fence. V1 continued forward and impacted a shrub and then the corner of a house with its front plane, bringing V2 to rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 28-year-old male driver of V1 reported that he just bought his vehicle, and that he has driven it less than ten times. He had just come from a car wash, and was on his way to a business meeting. He had never driven on this roadway before. He had just completed a phone call using his hands-free cellular phone, and his thoughts were focused on his upcoming meetings and the stress of his new career. As he approached the intersection, he did not see the stop sign or the approach of V2 until it was too late. He applied the brakes, and reported that the brakes felt weird to him; he was unfamiliar with antilock braking systems. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related recognition error, inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). The inadequate surveillance was related to the associated factor of inattention.

The 45-year-old female driver of V2 reported that she was on her way home from work. As she approached the intersection, she saw V1's approach but assumed he would stop for the stop sign, and she did not take any evasive action. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.