This two-vehicle collision occurred at the intersection of a five-lane roadway and a seven-lane roadway. This intersection is controlled with a traffic signal with pedestrian controls. The seven-lane roadway is divided, level, bituminous, and has a posted speed limit of 64 kph (40 mph). The five-lane roadway is undivided, level, bituminous, and has a posted speed limit of 56 kph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse weather conditions.

Vehicle one, a 1985 Chevrolet Nova sedan was eastbound in the third lane. Vehicle two, a 1994 Oldsmobile 88 Royale was southbound in the second lane. As both vehicles passed through the intersection the front of vehicle one impacted the right of vehicle two. Both vehicles rotated and the left of vehicle one impacted the right of vehicle two. Both vehicles came to rest in the southeast corner of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a sixty-eight year old female stated that she was coming from home and heading to work at the time of the crash. This driver indicated that she had been driving for about fifteen minutes at the time of the crash. A neighbor of this driver indicated that this driver had been at a holistic doctor and was heading home at the time of the crash. The driver indicates that she works and the neighbor remarked that this driver is not employed. This driver takes medication (Cortisol and Ambiem) and other holistic type medications to treat chronic fatigue syndrome. At the time of collision, driver was fatigued due to lack of sleep and nutrition. This driver also just ended a ten-day visit with her son who left the day before. This driver had been having issues with her son and was thinking about these issues. The witness to the crash stated that the driver of vehicle one was sitting upright with both hands on the wheel at the time of the crash. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a twenty-two year old female was heading from home to work to pick up her paycheck. This driver had been driving for about ten minutes at the time of the crash. This driver takes no medication. This driver never saw vehicle one before the crash. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one is coded as “this vehicle traveling: crossing over (passing through) intersection” and the critical reason for the critical pre-crash event is coded as “driver related factor: inattention”. The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two is coded as “other vehicle encroachment: from crossing street; across path” and the critical reason for the critical pre-crash event is coded as “not coded to this vehicle”.