This two-vehicle crash occurred near a four-legged intersection. The eastbound approach roadway is undivided, has a 3.3% downhill grade and curves to the left (radius of curvature is 84 m). This roadway is controlled by a stop sign. The speed limit on this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). The north/south roadway is divided and straight. The northbound approach has a 2.5% uphill grade and consists of three through lanes and a left turn lane. The speed limit on this roadway is 64 kmph (40 mph). It was dark with streetlights on at the time of the crash and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Suzuki Forenza, was stopped eastbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Kia Sephia, was northbound in lane two. V1 entered the intersection, turning left. The front of V1 struck the left side of V2. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-two-year-old female, was traveling, with two young children, from her home to a store. She was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle and passengers. This driver stated that she looked for traffic in both directions before entering the intersection. She stated that she did not see V2 because its headlights were not on.

The driver of V2, a nineteen-year-old female, was traveling, with a twenty-year-old male, from a store to her home. She was well rested, in good health and familiar with her vehicle. She did not see V1 in time to attempt any avoidance maneuvers.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into same direction." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."