This two-vehicle collision occurred at the intersection of a seven-lane, north/south roadway and a two-lane, east/west roadway during afternoon daytime hours on a weekday. The intersection was controlled by a tri-light traffic signal. The speed limit for northbound traffic was 40 kmph (25 mph), 56 kmph (35 mph) for southbound. At the time of the crash there were no adverse weather conditions. The roadway in the area of the crash was in poor condition; the travel lanes in both directions had undergone resurfacing preparation by a riding grinder, removing lane lines and leaving the road surface very rough.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Ford Escort station wagon, was traveling northbound in the fourth lane and approaching the intersection with the intention of turning left. Vehicle two (V2), a 1985 Toyota Celica, was traveling southbound in the third lane of opposing traffic and approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. As V1 executed the turn, the front of V1 impacted the front of V2. Both vehicles deflected southwest and cam to rest in the southbound lanes. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 81-year-old female driver of V1 stated that she saw V2's approach, but that V2 appeared to be very far away, and she believed she had adequate time to execute the turn. The driver was on her way to a poetry club, and was thinking about her poetry meeting at the time of the crash. The critical precrash event for V1 was: This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded as a driver related decision error, misjudgment of gap or other's speed.

The driver of V2, a 19-year-old male, was traveling with a 20-year-old male passenger. The driver was heading home from a fast food restaurant. The driver was talking to his passenger about social matters as he was traveling. The driver exercises every day by walking for 30 minutes. The driver has three years of driving experience. He does not have any formal driver training. The car belongs to a co-worker. He has been driving the car since the day before the crash, but has borrowed it in the past. His driver's license is currently suspended. The driver thought V1 would yield the right-of-way as he approached. He stated V1 turned in front of him, without warning, as he entered the intersection on a green light. The driver applied the brakes and swerved right, but could not avoid the impact. The critical precrash event for V2 was: Other vehicle encroaching into lane, from opposite direction over left lane line. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.