This crash occurred in the morning of a weekday in the middle of a four-way urban intersection. The intersection consisted of an east/west four lane undivided roadway (with designated left turn lanes) and a north/south five lane undivided roadway (with designated left turn lanes) controlled by a properly functioning traffic signal. The east/west road is dry and straight with a negative grade greater than 2%. The posted speed limit on the roadway is 64kmph (40mph). Traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions.

V1, a 2005 Mercury Montego, was eastbound in the left turn lane approaching the intersection behind a large truck. V2, a 2000 Ford Focus, was westbound in lane two approaching the same intersection where it intended to go straight. As the large truck turned left V1 followed. The front of V1 struck the front left corner of V2 as it traveled through the intersection with the green light. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 28 year-old male was who had left his home early for a work related appointment, and had driven for 30 miles prior to the crash. Numerous attempts to contact the driver did not yield an interview and his wife could only provide minimal information. The driver was transported for minor injuries and V1 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as a driver related factor, inadequate surveillance, as the driver just followed the truck without looking to see if westbound traffic was clear.

V2 was driven by a 21 year-old male running an errand. The driver of V2 stated that he saw the truck safely turn left in front of him, but did not see V1 until the truck turned. V1 turned left in front of him and he did not have time to try and avoid the other car. The driver was treated on scene for minor injuries and V2 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment from the opposite direction - over the left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. A sightline restriction was coded as an associated factor as the large truck prevented the driver from seeing V1 until it was too late.