This crash occurred on a two lane undivided roadway with a posted speed limit of 72kmph (45mph). The roadway had a positive grade of 2.5%. It was raining, the roadway was wet and it was daylight at the time of this afternoon weekend crash.

V1, a 1988 Toyota Corolla, was traveling north on the two-lane roadway. V1 drove off the right side of the roadway, which had a lip edge that dropped varying from 1 cm to 10 cm. Operator of V1 over-corrected to the left and began to rotate counterclockwise. V1 continued to rotate across both lanes, off the left side of the roadway and struck a 50 cm diameter tree with its front. V1 continued to rotate and came to rest facing east. Vehicle 1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

V1 was driven by a belted 19-year-old female who was transported, treated and released for minor injuries. She stated that she was on her way home from work, not in a hurry and that it was raining heavily. She stated that the car was making a funny noise and she looked down at the shift and discovered it was in the wrong gear. She then put it in the correct gear, felt the car tilt slightly and realized she was off the edge of the right side of the road. She corrected to the left and the car began to hydroplane across the roadway. She did not recall any additional avoidance maneuvers. She was comfortable with the vehicle and had been driving for 2 years. She wears contacts to correct a hyperopic (far-sighted) condition, takes no medications and was not fatigued at the time of the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle 1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a driver performance error of overcompensation. This was chosen because when the driver re-entered the roadway she turned the wheel too much and lost control of her vehicle. Associated factors include an internal distraction as the driver stated she looked down at the shifter because she was in the wrong gear, this distracted her and caused her not to be focused on the driving task. The other associated factor coded to this case was a performance error of overcompensation.