A three vehicle daytime crash occurred during the early morning. The initial crash occurred on the southbound side of a three lane, dry, level, concrete highway. To the left side of the southbound lanes is a median with a dirt embankment with a wood/metal guardrail at the top of the embankment. The northbound side of the highway is four lanes, dry, level, and made of concrete. Both highways are designated 104 kmph (65 mph). Both highways have an HOV lane, but the northbound side HOV was not in effect at the time of the crash. This part of highway actually runs east and west but is known as a north and southbound highway.

Vehicle one (V1) was a red 2002 Chevy Trailblazer 4-door SUV, traveling west in the number three HOV lane. Vehicle two (V2) is a gold 1998 Nissan Frontier pick-up truck traveling west in the number three HOV lane ahead of V1. Vehicle three (V3) was a gold 2001 Honda Civic, traveling east in the number four HOV lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 25-year-old asthmatic male with 9 years of driving experience. He was drinking coffee just before the crash; he spilled his coffee and took his eyes off the road to retrieve the cup. When he looked up again V2 was right in front of him. V1 in an attempt to avoid hitting the rear of V2 swerved into the right lane and applied his brakes. V1 then swerved back into the HOV lane where the left side impacted the right side of V2. Both vehicles rotated counter clockwise and headed southwest. V2 departed the roadway to the left and rolled to its right side on the dirt embankment. V1 departed the roadway to the left and began to roll right. As V1 rolled over it impacted the wood/metal guardrail at the top of the embankment with its right side. V1 continued southwest after rolling three quarter turns where it came to rest on its left side facing southeast on the northbound side of the highway, mostly on the shoulder. V2 rolled four-quarter turns and came to rest on its wheels facing west on the left shoulder of the southbound lanes. Debris from V1 contacted the front of V3. V3 came to rest near the impact facing east. The right front passenger of V1 complained of pain and was transported for treatment. No airbags deployed in any vehicle. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed due to damage. V3 was driven from the scene.

The driver of V1 stated that when he applied his brakes the vehicle swerved back to the left. He had two passengers in his vehicle. He wakes up around 5 am for work everyday and drives 1½ hours to work.

The driver of V2 was a 31 year-old male. The researcher was unable to locate the driver of vehicle two for an interview.

The driver of V3 was a 39 year-old male with 23 years of driving experience. He was on his way home from swimming at the gym. He had slept in his vehicle the night before for about three hours. He was feeling fatigued at the time of the crash but was in a good mood, singing along with the radio.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the left side of the travel lane. The critical reason was assigned to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction. The driver of V1 became distracted while driving after spilling coffee on his lap and then attempting to clean it up.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment - from adjacent lane (same direction) over right lane line. A critical reason was not assigned to V2.

V3 was not involved in first harmful event. A critical reason was not assigned to V3.