This two-vehicle crash occurred in a three-leg intersection. The east/west roadway is level, consists of one lane in each direction and curves left with a radius of curvature of 130 meters. The speed limit for this roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). The southbound roadway, an exit ramp from the highway, is on the north side of the east/west roadway. This roadway curves right with a radius of curvature of 30 meters. The speed limit for this roadway is 89 kmph (55 mph). There is a stop sign for this roadway at the intersection. It was early morning and still dark at the time of the crash and it was raining.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Audi A4, was stopped southbound on the off-ramp. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Dodge Ram pickup, was westbound in lane one. V1 entered the intersection to turn left (east) and the left side was struck by the front of V2. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a fifty-year-old male, was not interviewed. He told the police officer at the scene that he "looked both ways and did not see anything" before he entered the intersection.

The driver of V2, a twenty-three-year-old male, was traveling from his home to work. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that he noticed V1 stopped at the stop sign and assumed that the driver of V1 would wait until he passed the intersection. When V1 entered his roadway, the driver of V2 applied the brakes and slid on the wet roadway.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was not coded to this vehicle.