The crash occurred on a curved side street approximately 50 meters from an offset four-way intersection controlled by stop signs. The four-way intersection had two lanes one northbound traffic and southbound traffic. The lanes running east/west had one lane east and one for westbound lanes. The roadway curved to the right about 50 meters from the intersection and there was a left side street that also curved to the right and had two lanes, one lane running westbound and one lane running eastbound. The conditions were dry and clear. It was a weekday afternoon. The traffic flow was light as it was a residential neighborhood. The speed limit was 40 KPH (25 MPH).

V1 was a 1991 Toyota Corolla that was driven by 45-year-old woman who had a history of seizures. It was noted by a witness on scene that the driver of V1 approached the offset four ways stop traveling northbound in lane one. She had come to a stop at the stop sign and the witness stated that she appeared to be having a seizure in the vehicle and continued through the intersection when she left the roadway to the and ran over a small tree, she then hit the stop sign and continued through till she crashed into a telephone pole on the northwest roads edge where she came to final rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1.

V1 was driven by a 45-year old woman who had a history of seizures and during an interview with her family within the last three months had crashed into a concrete median wall due to having a seizure while driving. It was noted by an on scene witness that the driver did appear to be having a seizure behind the wheel, thus causing the crash. She was unresponsive when EMS transported her and later passed away at the hospital. Her vehicle was towed due to damages. Her family was unsure of any medications she was on to control the seizures. She also had her three year old grandson in the vehicle with her and he was not in a child safety seat. He too, was transported to the hospital with injuries.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was “this vehicle traveling off the left side of the roadway”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was driver related “heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act”. She did not have a legal driver's license and only an ID card. Three months prior to this crash she had another crash that involved her having a seizure and driving into a telephone pole.