The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a six-lane expressway, divided by a concrete barrier. There were three lanes southbound, and three lanes northbound. The roadway was a straight, level, bituminous roadway; with a posted speed limit of 97 kmph (60 mph). It was late evening at the end of the weekend and the road was wet and it was raining heavily. Traffic flow was light with stop-and-go activity and it was dark with overhead lighting.

Vehicle one (V1) a 2001 Ford F150 SVT 2-door with three occupants, was traveling Northbound in lane three, which was an HOV lane. Vehicle two (V2) a 1993 Chevy Caprice 4-door with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane one. The sequence of events is only partially known and it is unknown what caused the driver of V1's initial loss of control. For an unknown reason V1 was spinning counterclockwise out of control, starting from the HOV lane and then across all the number two and number one lanes. The front left of V2 impacted with the left front of V1; V2 rotated slightly counterclockwise and then the right side of V2 near its rear quarter panel impacted the left side of V1. V1 then impacted the right cement barrier with its back plane where it then came to rest against the concrete barrier facing southwest. V2 came to rest forward of V1 facing northbound on the right shoulder. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. This sequence of events was based on driver of V2's statement with the researcher, and the damage patterns to both vehicles. There is no police report or other witnesses to further verify the accuracy of these events. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

An unknown aged male, whose pre-crash factors are unknown, was the driver of V1. He was not interviewed due to a language barrier and no available translator. V1 was photographed on-scene and then inspected later at a repair facility. There appeared to be no pre-crash tire damage based on the on-scene images; however, at the repair facility the left front tire had been replaced due to a sidewall that had ruptured and was torn. The tread depth on both rear tires was only 2-millimeters. The right rear tire was under-inflated having just 117 kpa (16 psi) of pressure, when the manufacturer's recommended cold pressure for the tires is 221 kpa, or 32 psi. The tire conditions may have been a factor in the control loss of the vehicle on the wet roadway. Since the driver of V2 stated she was going the posted speed limit when V2 spun in front of her vehicle, this indicates that V1 was traveling above the posted speed limit prior to its control loss. Due to the lack of information why V1 lost control, we do know some of the contributing factors were: wet roads, under-inflated RR tire, low tread depth on rear tires, and traveling above the posted speed limit. Because of this the Critical Precrash event for V1 was: this vehicle loss of control due to/ unknown loss of control. The critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded to V1 as: unknown reason. There is not enough information to code the reason for V1's control loss. We do know factors that are environmental and vehicle related, but we do not have any information to ascertain if there were any human factors.

The driver of V2 was a 17-year-old female, who had just come from the store and was heading home. She advised she was traveling at about 97 kmph (60 mph), when a red truck spun in front of her, she braked, and it is unknown if her brakes locked up or not. She was well rested, with 12 hours of sleep the night prior. She reported to be in good health with no hearing or sight restrictions. She is familiar with the roadway as she drives it monthly. The pre-event movement was coded "going straight." The critical pre-crash event was coded: "Other motor vehicle encroachment: from adjacent lane (same direction) over the left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was "Not coded to this vehicle."