This crash occurred in the early evening of a weekend in the westbound lane of a two-lane, residential roadway. The east/west roadway consisted of a lane in each direction flanked by soft shoulders and a small pond/stream on the south roadside. The bituminous roadway was dry and straight with a 3% downhill grade in the westbound direction and a posted speed limit of 56kmph (35 mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash, however the traffic flow was momentarily interrupted as a gaggle of geese was attempting to the roadway (south to north).

V1, a 1994 Ford Taurus sedan, was westbound in lane one approaching the point where the geese had begun crossing the road. V2, a 1993 Chevrolet 1500 Flareside pickup, was westbound in lane one behind V1 traveling at an estimated speed of 97kmph (60 mph). V1 came to a complete stop in lane one to allow the geese to cross. V2 failed to stop and subsequently collided into the rear of V1. Both vehicles came to rest in the roadway several meters ahead of the point of impact. The geese decided against crossing the road, and returned to the left roadside. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 25-year old female, was transported with possible injuries to a local trauma center. The passenger in the vehicle was uninjured. She stated that after she came to a stop, she noticed V2 approaching rapidly in her rearview mirror. She was not able to react before the impact. V1 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded other motor vehicle in lane traveling in the same direction with a higher speed. The Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factors coded to this driver were her inexperience with the vehicle (she had only had it for 2 days), a tire deficiency (low tread and under-inflation) and the traffic flow interruption caused by the geese.

The driver of V2, a 26-year old male, was transported to a local trauma center with possible injuries. None of his other four passengers were injured. His occupant stated that V1 had stopped suddenly in the road for unknown reasons. The driver braked hard but could not avoid V1. The pickup was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The Critical Reason was coded as inadequate surveillance - failure to look far enough ahead. The associated factors include traveling too fast for conditions and the same traffic flow interruption faced by V1.