This single vehicle crash occurred in the eastbound lane of a two lane undivided mountain roadway that runs east to west. This section of the roadway was curved, downhill, and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). It was early morning on a weekend and the road was dry and still dark outside but the sky was clear. Traffic flow was very minimal.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Toyota Tacoma was eastbound in the first lane. The driver of V1 had just left his house when he came upon deer on both sides of the roadway. The deer on the left side of the road bolted out into the road. In an attempt avoid the deer the driver of V1 swerved the vehicle to the right causing the vehicle to start to yaw counter clockwise off the right side of the road. Continuing in the yaw, V1 re-entered the roadway and then started to roll onto its right side. V1 then ran off the left side of the road, down and embankment and rolled longitudinally ten and a half times, approximately 35.7 meters (117.13 feet) until coming to rest on its top in a drainage pond. The vehicle was reported as towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1, a twenty-three year old male, walked home after the crash. He stated that he was on his way to the gas station when he tried to keep from hitting the deer in the road but ended up rolling his vehicle. He then stated that after the crash he was shaken up so he went home and drank a beer to try to calm down. The police found the collision scene later that morning and found the driver standing in front of his home, up the street from the crash. The driver stated that he was going approximately 56 kmph (35 mph). The driver stated that he was in good health and reported not working in the last seven days. He also reported only getting five and one half hours of sleep in the past 24 hours. Per the medical records this driver had a BAC of 0.213. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: object or animal, animal in roadway. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: poor directional control.