This three-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The north/south roadway is undivided, straight, level and consists of two lanes in each direction. The speed limit on this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). The east/west roadway is undivided, straight, level and consists of one lane in each direction and a left turn lane. The speed limit on this roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). The roadways were wet at the time of the crash. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Buick Park Avenue, was southbound in lane two, intending to turn left at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Jeep Cherokee, was northbound in lane one. Vehicle three (V3), 1996 Chevrolet Corsica, was stopped at a red traffic signal in westbound lane one. Two non-contact vehicles were in the northbound lane two. V1 turned left at the intersection and the right side was struck by the front of V1. V1 rotated counterclockwise and the front left side struck the left side of V3. V3 moved to the right and the right front wheel struck the curb. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a sixty-four-year-old male, was traveling with his sixty-year-old wife, from brunch to their home. He was well rested and comfortable with his vehicle and passenger. He travels this route daily. This driver has diabetes, arthritis and asthma, for which he takes the medications Albuterol, Advair, Diabet, Nexium, Arthrotec, Ultram, Gabapentin and Ambien. This driver stated that he did not see V2 due to the vehicles in lane two.

The driver of V2, a fifty-eight-year-old female, was traveling from church to have lunch with friends. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She drives on this roadway monthly. This driver takes an unspecified medication for her high blood pressure condition. She stated that the vehicles in lane two blocked her view of V1, but she applied the brakes at the last minute in an attempt to avoid the collision.

The driver of V3, a sixty-six-year-old female, was traveling from her home to the shopping mall. She was well rested, in fairly good health and familiar with her vehicle. She drives this route daily.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor; other decision error (turned with obstructed view).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was not coded to this vehicle.