This two-vehicle crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a seven-lane roadway divided by a raised median. There were four southbound lanes with one of them being a right turn lane and the others through lanes. The northbound lanes consisted of four lanes, one being a left turn lane and the others being through lanes. The roadway was straight, slightly down hill, and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 72 kph (45 mph). It was late afternoon on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear.

Vehicle one, a 1998 Honda Civic was turning left in fourth lane in the northbound direction. Vehicle two, a 2000 Honda Civic was going straight in the second two in the southbound direction. As vehicle one was turning left the traffic in the southbound direction had stopped due to congestion and had left a clear path for vehicle one to continue turning. Vehicle two however did not stop and proceeded to go straight. Neither vehicle one nor vehicle two saw each other due to a stopped heavy truck that was in lane three. The front of vehicle two impacted the left front of vehicle one. Both vehicles came to rest on all four wheels facing southwest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a twenty-one year old male who reported no injuries stated that he and his wife had come from home and was dropping off his wife at work. This driver had been driving for about thirty minutes at the time of the crash. He stated that he was turning left and going approximately 16 km/h (10mph) when he got hit on the left side by vehicle two. He stated that he had no time to do any avoidance maneuvers. He stated being in good health and that he had received thirteen hours of sleep the night before and reported working an average of twenty two hours in the last seven days. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a twenty-four year old male stated he and a friend were coming from lunch and were on their way home. This driver had been driving for about twenty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated he was going straight at approximately 56 km/h (35 mph) when vehicle one pulled out in front of him. He stated he hit his brakes but still ended up hitting vehicle one. This driver was also in good health and that he received ten hours of sleep the night before and reported working an average of twenty-four hours in the last seven days. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road several times a month.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as “this vehicle traveling: turning left at intersection”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to vehicle one and was coded as “driver related factor: other decision factor: turned with obstructed view”. The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was “other vehicle encroachment: from opposite direction - over left lane line”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “not coded to this vehicle”.