This crash occurred on a level two lane undivided roadway with a posted speed limit of 89 KPH (55 MPH). The roadway was straight and approached a four-leg intersection. The weather was clear, the roadway dry and it was daylight at the time of this weekday afternoon crash.

V2, a 1998 Honda CR-V, was traveling south on the roadway behind V3, a 2006 Chrysler Pacifica. V1, a 2001 Honda Civic, was traveling to the rear of V2 and V3. V3 stopped to make a left hand turn waiting for traffic to clear. V2 stopped behind V3. V1 struck the back of V2 with its front. V2 was pushed forward and the front struck the rear of V3. V1 came to rest in the southbound lane facing south. V2 drove off the roadway onto the side road. V2 and V3 were driven from the scene. V1 was towed due to damage. Police did not consider alcohol or drugs to be involved and ordered no tests. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The Honda Civic (V1) was driven by a belted 19-year-old female who was not injured. The 3-month-old female passenger secured in a child safety seat positioned in the right rear seat was not injured. The driver stated that she was on her way home from work at a day care center, drove this road daily and was traveling at approximately 82-97 KMPH (51-60 MPH). She said that she was watching a paint truck in the opposite lane putting down a white line. When she looked back she was only a few feet from the vehicle in front of her, braked, but was too close and hit him in the rear. She considered herself in good health and took an unspecified type of birth control pill. She was not fatigued.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was other vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was an external distraction, a driver related recognition error. This was chosen because the driver had been watching the paint truck and not focused on the driving task. An associated factor coded to this driver was the use of prescription medications: (a) an unspecified type of birth control pills.

The Honda CR-V (V2) was driven by a belted 48-year-old male who was not injured. The belted 13-year-old right front seat passenger was not injured. The driver stated that he had stopped behind V3 that had stopped to make a left hand turn. V3 was waiting for a paint truck and traffic to pass through the intersection prior to making the left. The driver stated that he was watching the truck paint lines and glanced in his rear view mirror when he heard brakes squealing. He advised that he was in good health and took an unspecified type of high blood pressure medication.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was other vehicle in lane, other vehicle traveling in same direction with a higher speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to this driver was the use of prescription medications: (a) unspecified type of high blood pressure medication.

The Chrysler Pacifica (V3) was driven by a belted 37-year-old male who was not injured. A passenger (unknown age and gender) was also not injured. No additional information was obtained as the driver could not be located or contacted.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V3 was not involved in first harmful event. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.