This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-leg intersection. Northbound had one right turn lane, two through lanes and one left turn lane. Southbound had three through lanes and one left turn lane. The roadway for vehicle one was straight, level, bituminous and with a posted speed of 64 kmph (40 mph). The roadway for vehicle two was straight, uphill, bituminous and with a posted speed of 64 kmph (40 mph). It was mid-afternoon on a weekend. The road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was congested.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Nissan four-door Maxima with two occupants, was northbound in lane four, the left turn lane, turning left. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Chevrolet S-10 with two occupants was southbound in lane one going straight. Southbound lanes two and three had stopped to let V1 make its turn. V1 was impacted in the front by V2's front, which was in lane one going straight. Neither driver did anything to avoid the crash. After the impact, V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest on its wheels facing southwest at the southwest corner of the intersection. After the impact, V2 traveled southwest and came to rest on its wheels facing southwest on the sidewalk of the southwest corner next to V1. V1 was towed from the scene with moderate frontal damage. V2 was also towed from the scene with moderate frontal damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

A 63-year-old female, who was transported to a trauma center with minor injuries, drove V1. The driver states she is retired with no problems. She takes Avapro and Lefaprenzine (sp) on a regular basis and wears glasses because she is near-sighted. She stated she did not know her travel speed and drives this roadway rarely. She had just left a shopping center with her 14-year-old granddaughter and was going to get lunch, and she was listening to the radio. She was stopped more than ten seconds and proceeded to make her turn because she thought all travel lanes had stopped to let her complete the turn. She was unable to see V2 due to the intervening vehicles and made the decision to turn with an obstructed view. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection". The Critical Pre-crash Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was driver related decision factor, Other (specified as: turned with obstructed view).

A 40 year-old male, who reported no injuries, drove V2. He advised he was traveling 48 to 56 kmph (30 to 35mph) and he and his niece were coming from his house in another city and was taking her to a friend's house and then onto the hospital to see his other niece who had just had a baby. The driver stated he had taken Advil in the last 24 hours. For this trip he had driven approximately 129-kilometers (80-miles) when the crash occurred. He did not see V1 turning because he had a green light and thought he had the right-of-way. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded "Other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction, over left lane line. The Critical Pre-crash Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle.