The crash occurred on a weekend afternoon on an east/west four-lane urban business roadway with left turn lanes. Private drives to businesses were intermittently located on both sides of the road. Recent traffic counts indicate the road carries 33,700 vehicles per day in the crash area. The posted speed limit was 72kmph (45mph). Conditions were daylight and dry with congested traffic at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1995 Chevrolet Suburban, was stopped at the end of a private drive on the north side of the road preparing to turn left. V2, a 2001 Honda Civic, was westbound in the left lane of the four-lane road. Traffic was backed up in the right westbound lane and a non-contact vehicle allowed V1 to turn in front of them. As V1 edged out into traffic it was struck in the front left corner by the front right of V2. After impact both vehicles came to final rest near the point of impact and were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was operated by a belted 57 year-old male who was not injured. The driver was wearing glasses to correct a near-sighted condition and takes medication for high blood pressure. He stated that a car in the right westbound lane let him out and he edged into traffic. He stopped and waited for other vehicles to pass by in the left westbound lane (lane 2) before attempting to complete the left turn. He indicated he didn't see the V2 approaching. Police charged him with failure to yield.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was inadequate surveillance, looked but did not see. Associated factors included turned with obstructed view and view obstructed by other vehicles.

V2 was driven by a belted 34 year-old female who was 7-months pregnant and was transported to a local hospital with possible injuries. Her 2-year old son was belted in a child safety seat in the back right and was not injured. The driver attempted to brake and steer left into the left turn lane to avoid a collision but was unsuccessful.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment, from driveway turning into opposite direction. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors could be positively coded, after an initial statement from the driver's husband on-scene she could not be located for a follow up interview.