This two-vehicle collision occurred during evening hours on a weekday night; street lamps illuminated the scene. The crash occurred at the four-leg intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway, and the intersection is controlled by a tri-light traffic signal. Both roadways are straight, level, five-lane, two-way, bituminous roads. The speed limit is 64 kmph (40 mph) in all directions. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions, and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was traveling northbound in the first lane, approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound in the second lane, approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. In the intersection, the front of V1 impacted the right side of V2. Both vehicles rotated clockwise and moved northeast to final rest in the eastbound lanes. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 40-year-old female driver of V1 reported that she was approaching the intersection on a green light. A witness at the scene indicated that the tri-light was in the red phase as she approached. The driver of V1 never saw V2, and took no evasive action. She stated that she was not using her hands-free cell phone during the crash, but the researcher formed the opinion that she was engaged in a phone conversation during the crash. This was based on the researcher's assessment of her non-verbal communication - her statements lacked veracity. Also, she received several additional calls during the interview. She reported that she takes frequent business calls on her cell phone, and she is "always working". The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related recognition error, inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

The 20-year-old male driver of V2 could not be fully interviewed due to lack of a translator. A translator was available briefly at the scene, and the driver of V2 reported that he was approaching the intersection on a green light, which changed to the yellow phase just as he passed into the intersection. He never saw V1's approach and took no evasive action. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.