This three-vehicle crash occurred on a four-lane southbound roadway in the fourth lane. The roadway contained no traffic control devices, consists of bituminous asphalt, curved to the right and had an uphill grade at the area of the crash. Concrete barriers and a middle grassy area separate the southbound and northbound roadways. The grassy median is approximately 5 meters (16-feet) in width. The speed limit of the roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Chevrolet Malibu was southbound in the fourth lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Volkswagen Passat was stopped southbound in the fourth lane ahead of V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 1992 Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme was southbound in the fourth lane behind V1. As V1 crested the small hill, traffic stopped. V1 steered left and braked. Vehicle one departed the road to the left and the left side of V1 sideswiped the center median. V1 then re-entered the number three travel lane and its front impacted the rear of vehicle two. The front of vehicle three then sideswiped with the rear of vehicle one. V1 and V2 came to rest near the point of impact. V3 moved around V1/ V2 and came to rest ahead of both vehicles in the fourth lane. V1 and V3 were towed due to damage. V2 was not towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-six year old male, was heading home from picking up a friend. This driver had been driving for about fifteen minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that as he was negotiating the curve he crested a hill and noticed that traffic was slowing/stopping. The driver stated that he braked and steered left to avoid V2. That was when V1 departed the left side of the road and impacted the center divider. This driver indicated that he was looking forward and watching traffic. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others.

The driver of V2, a thirty-four year old female, was driving to an unknown location at the time of the crash. Per the surrogate interview this driver was southbound and noticed a vehicle stopped in the lane and stopped well in advance of the non-contacted vehicle. This driver was having a conversation with the passenger of a social nature at the time of the crash. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other, not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V3, a thirty-two year old male was not interviewed. The critical pre-crash event for vehicle three was coded: other, not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.