This single-vehicle run off roadway type crash occurred in a rural area on a two-lane, two way, undivided asphalt roadway. Just prior to the crash location, the roadway merges into a two-lane roadway from a divided roadway with an extended median. The westbound roadway curves right with a radius of 625-meters (2,050-feet) and a positive super elevation of 4% and is downhill. The crash occurred during mid-morning with no adverse weather or road conditions. The speed limit for the area is 88 kmph (55 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Nissan Titan 4-door crew cab pickup with a 29 year-old female driver and a 18-month-old child in the second row, was westbound when it crossed the westbound lane into the eastbound lane and departed the left road edge. V1 then struck a metal post supporting a milepost marker sign with its front plane. The truck continued forward and sideswiped the embankment edge with its left front and left side and came to rest on the eastbound shoulder facing west. V1 was towed from the scene. The driver was air lifted to a hospital and the passenger was not injured. The driver was cited for DUI-prescription drugs. Various prescription drugs were found in the vehicle post crash. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1.

According to the driver's husband statement to the officer-in-charge, the driver was traveling to a neighboring town from a campsite with her 18-month-old daughter to pick up groceries. He stated she had been driving for 50 minutes when the crash occurred. He also stated that his wife had suffered a broken wrist in a previous crash one week before and had been taking a pain medication. She also was taking medication for chronic knee pain from past knee surgery. The medications include Percocet, Oxycodone, Clonazepam and Propoxyphene. The driver stated to the officer that she was distracted by her crying child in the backseat and took her attention off the roadway. A witness who was following V1 for 22.5-kilometers (14-miles) prior to the crash stated the vehicle had been weaving and swerving the entire way. She also stated she was reluctant to pass V1 because of its erratic lane usage. This witness stated the brake lights were not on during the crash sequence.

Medical records stated test results were negative for alcohol but positive for Benzodiazepines and Opiates. The driver was described as somewhat sleepy with a little slurring of speech upon arrival at the medical facility. Driver was being treated for depression and anxiety prior to the crash. The driver admitted to hospital staff to chronic problems with mood instability, distractibility and staying focused. Driver also admitted to marital conflict (spousal abuse) and earlier physical abuse by her mother. The driver admitted to taking the drugs Klonopin and Percocet prior to the trip. The driver stated she did not want to drive but her husband forced her.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded as a driver related factor: other critical non performance (specified as: due to taking prescription drugs). From information on the medical report and information from the witness, this driver fell asleep prior to the vehicle running off the left side of the road. There was no physical evidence the driver attempted any evasive maneuvers. Her poor psychological and physical condition and admitted consumption of prescription drugs just prior to the trip incapacitated the driver.