This two-vehicle collision occurred during morning daylight hours on a weekday. The crash occurred at the three-leg intersection of a north-south main roadway, and an east-west side street, which intersected the east edge of the main road. The speed limit on the main roadway was 56 kmph (35 mph); the speed limit on the side street was 40 kmph (25 mph). At the time of the crash, it was cloudy with light fog, and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Honda Accord four-door sedan, was traveling westbound in the first lane of a two-lane, two-way, undivided, dry, level, bituminous roadway, approaching the intersection with the intention of turning left. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Honda Civic four-door sedan, was traveling northbound in the second lane of a five-lane, two-way, undivided, dry, level, bituminous roadway, approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. As V1 made its turn, the front of V2 impacted the left side of V1. Both vehicles deflected northwest and came to rest in the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 18-year-old female driver of V1 reported that she was stopped at the stop sign, then moved forward slightly for a better view of crossing traffic. She observed V2 approaching from the left, but estimated his speed and gap to be sufficient to allow her to pass safely. She pulled forward and began to execute the turn, and then looked right to check for southbound crossing traffic. She looked back left and saw V2 very near. She reported that she “panicked” and applied the brakes and steered right, but could not avoid the collision. The critical precrash event for V1 was: This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver related decision error, misjudgment of gap or other's speed.

The 38-year-old female driver of V2 reported that she was on her way to work. She has twelve years of driving experience, but has never received formal driver training. She reported that she saw V1 pull out in front of her. She applied the braked and steered to the left, but was unable to avoid the collision. The critical precrash event for V2 was: Other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.