This two-vehicle crash occurred on a five-lane roadway. This road is approaching an intersection. There are three lanes in the northbound direction. Two through lanes and one left turn lane. The road is straight and level with no defects noted. The road is controlled by a stop light with pedestrian controls. The speed limit on the road is 72 kph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one, a 1993 Chevrolet Suburban was northbound in the second lane. Vehicle two, a 2005 Chevrolet Malibu was stopped in lane three waiting to turn left. As vehicle one was north bound, a non-contact tractor-trailer moved to the left from lane one to make a right turn. The driver of vehicle steered left to avoid the non-contact. When vehicle one steered to the left it left the second lane and its front plane impacted the rear plane of vehicle two. Both vehicles came to rest near impact. Vehicle one was not towed due to damage. Vehicle two was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a twenty-five year old male was returning home from picking up his truck. It is unknown how long this driver had been driving on this portion of the trip. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis. Fatigue is not considered a factor for this driver.

The driver of vehicle two, a forty-five year old female was not interviewed. There is no know work or sleep information for this driver.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as “this vehicle traveling: over lane line on the left side of the travel lane”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for the crash was attributed to vehicle one and was coded as a driver related factor: "too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others )specified as: Driver was going to fast to be able to stop in time after successful avoidance to unexpected actions of non-contact vehicle)". The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “other motor vehicle in lane: traveling in same direction with higher steady speed”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “not coded to this vehicle”.