A two-vehicle crash occurred in a three-leg intersection. Southbound is physically divided and has three through lanes and two left turn lanes. Northbound is physically divided and has one right turn lane and three through lanes. These two legs of the intersection are straight, level, bituminous, with a posted speed of 72 kmph (45 mph). It was early afternoon on a weekday during lunch and the road was dry and it was cloudy. Traffic flow was moderate due to the lunch break. The East/West minor leg of the intersection is undivided and comprised of 5 travel lanes- three westbound, and two eastbound.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 four-door Toyota Corolla with one occupant, was southbound in lane four, the outside left turn lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 four-door Honda Pilot was northbound in lane three going straight. V1started its turn into the intersection and impacted with its front to V2's front. After the impact, V1 rotated counter-clockwise and came to rest in the middle of the intersection on its wheels facing east. After the impact, V2 rotated slightly clockwise and came to rest in the middle of the intersection on its wheels facing northeast. V1 was towed from the scene due to moderate damage to the front. V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

A 25 year-old male, who reported no injuries, has been in the country for nine months and was driving V1. He had just left work and had driven about 1.6-kilometers (1-mile). He was headed to get lunch when the crash occurred. He reported that a woman behind him had honked her horn and was tailgating him as he was entering the intersection. He was looking in his left outside mirror and his attention was on her and not the on-coming traffic when the crash occurred. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded “This vehicle traveling, turning left at the intersection.” The Critical Pre-crash Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was driver related recognition factor, external distraction. He was looking in his left side mirror at a lady behind him after she honked her horn and was tailgating him. He stated he sleeps seven and one half hours every night and worked 35 ½ hours the week before the crash. He had taken a driving course in England nine months prior to coming to the United States.

A 37 year-old male, who reported no injuries, drove V2, the 2003 Honda Pilot. The driver is self employed and worked a total of two hours the week prior to the crash because his wife has been on business travel for three weeks. He usually sleeps three to four hours a night, but the night before he slept nine hours and always feels rested when he wakes up. He had just picked up his daughter from school and was heading to the daycare to pick up his other daughter. He stated he and his daughter were talking about what had happened in school that day. When he saw V2 coming out into the intersection, he applied the brakes in an effort to avoid the crash. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded “Other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction- over left lane line. The Critical Pre-crash Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle.