This two-vehicle collision occurred on a seven-lane, undivided, dry, asphalt roadway with a two-way left turn lane. This road is straight and level with no defects noted. The roadway is designated 64 kph (40 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one, a 1998 Toyota 4-runner was northbound in the number one lane. Vehicle two, a 2001 GMC Sierra was northbound in the second lane. The front plane of vehicle one impacted the right plane of vehicle two. Vehicle one then left the roadway impacting a curb and a small street sign with its front plane. Vehicle one was towed with major damage. Vehicle two was driven from the scene with moderate damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a seventy-eight year old male was heading home after a doctors appointment. The driver has prostate cancer. He had just come from the doctor where he received a shot of Luprin for the first time. He feels this caused him to blackout just before the crash. He had driven approximately 25 miles to the crash site. The driver also has high blood pressure and suffers from gastro intestinal bleeding. In addition to Luprin, this driver takes Tylenol, Aproxims and Motrin. The PAR indicated that this driver is also diabetic and EMT's found a very high blood sugar level. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a seventy-one year old male was not interviewed. There is no known pre-crash information on this driver.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as "this vehicle traveling: over the lane line on the left side". The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to vehicle one and was coded as a driver related factor: "Other critical non performance (Driver had just been given a new medication for prostrate cancer & passed out from it.)". The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "other vehicle encroachment - over the right lane line". The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "not coded to this vehicle".