This two-vehicle collision occurred during evening hours on a weekend; it was dark at the time. The crash occurred on a straight, level stretch of a five-lane, two-way, dry, bituminous roadway with a two-way left turn lane. The roadway is designated a 56 kmph (35 mph) zone. Private business driveways intersect the west road edge. The east road edge runs parallel to train tracks; a chain-link fence separates the tracks and the road. On the east roadside, bicycle lanes are separated from other traffic by a raised median. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions and the road was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Mazda Millenia 4-door sedan, was eastbound exiting a business drive, intending to turn left into northbound traffic. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 GMC C-1500 extended cab pickup, was traveling southbound in the second lane, approaching the private drive on its right with the intention of continuing straight. As V1 executed the turn, the front of V2 impacted the left side of V1. V2 came to rest in the roadway near impact. V1 accelerated from impact and continued eastbound, crossing all traffic lanes and departing the road over the east curb, causing damage to the front plane. V1 traversed the bike lanes and impacted the chain-link fence with its front plane; the fence gave way and V1 went under it. V1 continued eastbound off the road and drove over the railroad tracks. V1 then impacted a cinder-block wall with its front, bringing V1 to rest. Cinder blocks fell from the wall and damaged the hood, roof, and windshield of V1. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 28-year-old female driver of V1 is not licensed, but has completed basic driver education and has been driving for two years. She was driving through the collision area for only the second time, and has only driven V1 approximately six times, having borrowed the car from a friend. She reported that she stopped at the end of the private drive and looked left for traffic. She reported to police that she saw V2, but that it appeared to be going slowly, and she thought she had sufficient time to turn. She said to the researcher that she thought V2 would slow to allow her to turn. Her statement to police seems more plausible based on the vehicle dynamics of the crash. She took no avoidance action. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded as a driver-related decision error: misjudgment of gap or other's speed.

The 20-year-old male driver of V2 was on his way home from a retail store. He was listening to music as he drove. He reported that he is scheduled to surrender himself to authorities for multiple warrants, and that he had to quit his job due to impending jail time. He reported that he saw V1 approach the roadway. There were parked cars along the western curb, but he reported that they did not block his view of the other vehicle. When V1 attempted its turn, the driver of V2 applied the braked and steered left, but was unable to avoid the collision. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment, from driveway, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.