A two-vehicle daytime T-bone type collision occurred on an urban arterial road at a driveway. The arterial roadway is straight with two lanes in each direction. All four lanes of two-way travel are paved with bituminous asphalt. At the site of the crash, there is a driveway for a business. The speed limit for the arterial is 48 kmph (30 mph). At the time of the crash the road was wet and it was raining lightly.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Mitsubishi Eclipse Spyder convertible with only a driver, was stopped facing east in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Toyota Scion XB 5-door with a driver was headed west in lane one. Lane two heading west was stopped for a traffic light, with a small gap between non-contact vehicles at the driveway. The driver of V1 turned left and proceeded through this gap. V2 was coming up lane one and the front of V2 struck the right side of V1. V1 was towed due to disabling damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 30-year-old male who reported no injuries. He stated that he had been waiting to turn left into the parking lot for around a minute, and a lady in lane two finally gave him space and waved him through. He was creeping through the gap and watching for cars approaching for the right. His sight line prevented him from seeing V2 until the collision was imminent.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded This Vehicle Traveling, Turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event is coded as a driver decision factor: “Other decision error (specified as: view obstructed by in-transport vehicles)”.

The driver of V2 was a 61-year old male who reported possible knee injuries. He refused to be interviewed for this study citing privacy concerns. From the structure of the crash it is not clear if this driver was not looking for possible turning vehicles, or if the driver was not paying attention to the road ahead enough to avoid a collision.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded Other Vehicle Encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle. There are no known associated factors for this driver.