This two-vehicle crash occurred on a dry, straight, undivided, seven-lane state highway. The highway runs north and south at the location of the crash. There are four-lanes for northbound traffic and four-lanes for southbound traffic. North traffic lanes consist of a right turn lane, two through lanes and one left turn lane. South traffic lanes consist of a right turn lane, two through lanes and one left turn lane. The speed limit on the highway is 64 kph (40 mph) and there were no adverse weather conditions at the time. This crash occurred during nighttime hours.

Vehicle one, a 1991 Honda Accord was northbound in lane four, the left turn lane started the turn into a private driveway on the west side. Vehicle two, a 2004 Dodge Durango was southbound in lane three. Vehicle one crossed the double yellow lines and entered lanes four and three. Vehicle one impacted with its front to vehicle two's front. After the impact, vehicle one rotated clockwise leading with its back and ran off the west side of the highway. Vehicle one jumped a curb and came to rest on its wheels facing northeast in the curb. After the impact, vehicle two ran off the west side and came to rest on its wheels facing south near a parking lot. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a thirty-seven year old female was heading home from a friends house. This driver had been driving for about forty minutes at the time of the crash. The medical records indicate that this driver had a BAC of .223. This driver was taking Prozac as a prescription medication. This driver indicated that she had a couple of drinks at a friend's house and was headed home. In her interview, this driver stated, “she did not go far enough to make the turn”. This driver was actually driving in the opposite direction at the time of the crash. This driver had been living in this area for about two months and drives on this vehicle on a daily basis. This driver also has a suspended drivers license.

The driver of vehicle two, a thirty-four year old female was driving to pick up her children. This driver had been driving for about twelve minutes at the time of the crash. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as “this vehicle traveling: over the lane line on left side of travel lane”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to vehicle one and was coded as “driver related factor: inadequate surveillance”. The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “other motor vehicle in lane: traveling in opposite direction”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “not coded to this vehicle”.