This multi-event two-vehicle crash occurred in the afternoon of a weekday in the northbound lanes of a high-speed expressway. The northbound section of the highway was composed of four lanes flanked by rumble strips and paved shoulders and divided from south bound traffic by a concrete barrier wall. The concrete roadway was dry with a slight curve to the left and a positive 3% super-elevation. The posted speed limit was 96 kmph (60 mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle 1 (V1), a 2005 Toyota Tacoma, four door, compact pickup with one occupant, was northbound in lane two. Vehicle 2 (V2), a 2001 Hyundai Elantra, four door, compact sedan with two occupants, was also northbound slightly behind V1 in lane three. As V1 attempted to switch lanes from lane two to lane three the left front of V1 contacted the right passenger side of V2. After impact V2 left 43.5 meters (143 feet) of skid marks across lane three and four before contacting the center concrete barrier wall with its left side. After the initial impact V1 steered right, over corrected, lost control and began to travel in a clockwise yaw. V1 left 17.4 meters (57 feet) of yaw marks before contacting the right guardrail with its left rear tire and step rail. That impact caused V1 to travel over the guardrail and down the steep embankment striking tree branches with its right side. V1 traveled approximately 25 meters (82 feet) before contacting two large trees, one with its left rear, the other with its left front corner. V1 came to final rest against the two trees down the embankment facing east. V2 came to final rest on the left shoulder against the concrete barrier wall facing north. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1 and 97 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 50 year-old male, was transported from the scene with possible injuries. The driver was not able to be located for an interview. Official records indicate that he saw a police car parked on the right side on the roadway. It is believed that he attempted to switch lanes to the left to give the police car more room. His estimated speed of travel was 96 kmph (60 mph). No other crash details were available. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was an unknown driver related error. Associated factors include cocaine usage as well as beta-blockers and anti-depressants. These medications can impair thinking or reaction as well as cause dizziness.

The driver of V2, a 43 year-old female was not injured in the crash. She had taken the day off from work to go to her mother's important doctor appointment. She was driving at 104 kmph (65 mph) in lane three. She felt V1 contact her right passenger's door. The collision scared her and caused her to brake. She crossed lane four and struck the concrete barrier with her left side. She claims when she felt the impact she looked right and tried to control her vehicle. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with non-disabling damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane, over left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The driver denied talking with her daughter prior to the crash. She was wearing non-prescription sunglasses when the crash occurred. She reported driving this roadway on a monthly basis. No other factors were coded and the driver was not thought to have contributed to the crash.