A two-vehicle nighttime collision occurred on a Friday. The collision occurred on an east/west state highway that is illuminated at night by overhead luminaires. The highway is divided, dry, level, and consists of six lanes. The number six lane is a high occupancy vehicle (HOV) lane separated by double yellow lines. A raised concrete center divider that separates the eastbound and westbound lanes borders the south edge of the highway. An asphalt shoulder borders the north edge of the highway. The number one and number two lanes of the highway are exit lanes that merge unto an interstate highway. The lanes merge unto the interstate transition approximately a mile west of the collision area. The highway is designated a 105 kmph (65 mph) zone.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Toyota Scion TC, two-door coupe with five occupants, was traveling westbound in the number one lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Toyota Corolla four-door sedan with one occupant, was traveling westbound in the number two lane. As V1 was traveling, it traveled unto the north shoulder in an attempt to avoid a slower moving vehicle. The driver then over compensated as she steered left, re-entered the roadway, crossed lane one and then lane two where the front of V2 struck the left side of V1. V2 continued in a counterclockwise rotation as it crossed the roadway where the back of the vehicle struck the concrete divider. The vehicle came to rest against the divider, facing north. Vehicle two came to rest facing westbound in the number two lane. V1 received moderate damage and was driven from the scene. V2 suffered major damage and was driven from the scene. None of the occupants were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 16-year-old female traveling home from a friend's home. The driver is a High School student on summer break. The driver returns to school on Monday. She stated that her return to school was not on her mind at the time of the collision. The driver goes to the gym every day and plays tennis every Friday for one hour. The driver has only been driving for one year. She rarely drives through the collision area. She was listening to the radio and talking with her passengers prior to the collision. The driver stated that a non-contact vehicle entered her travel lane. The passengers in the vehicle indicated there was a slower moving vehicle ahead of V1 and the driver swerved to the right to miss the vehicle. This caused her to swerve right to avoid contact. She then realized that she was on the north shoulder so she swerved back into the lane, but lost control.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: overcompensation. This inexperienced driver was inattentive and did not look far enough ahead. She overcompensated and lost control of the vehicle before impact with V2.

The driver of vehicle two is a 31-year-old female. Unfortunately, the driver refused to comment on the collision.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment-from adjacent lane (same direction)-over right lane line. A critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle.