This four-vehicle crash occurred on a five lane divided roadway. The crash occurred on the westbound lanes, which have two lanes of travel. The road is straight and level with no defects. The speed limit on the roadway is 56 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle three, a 2000 Chevrolet Blazer was traveling west in the second lane. Vehicle two, a 2001 Oldsmobile Alero was heading west in the second lane behind vehicle one. Vehicle one, a 2002 Ford Taurus was westbound in the second lane behind vehicle two. Vehicle four, a 1998 Toyota Camry was westbound in the second lane behind vehicle three. Vehicle three stopped in the second lane to avoid a crash that occurred ahead of vehicle one. Vehicle two saw vehicle one stop and steered to the right to avoid. Vehicle two slowed down as it steered right. As vehicle two was avoiding vehicle three, it was impacted on the rear plane by the front plane of vehicle one. Vehicle one then impacted the rear of vehicle three. Vehicle four then impacted the rear of vehicle one. Vehicle two, three and four were not towed due to damage. Vehicle one was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a twenty-one year old male was coming from the car wash and out running some errands at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for over twenty minutes at the time of the crash. This stated that right before the crash he was reaching down to retrieve some papers that had fallen on to the floor. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a twenty-five year old female was heading home from work and had been driving for about fifteen minutes at the time of the crash. This driver noticed vehicle one stop to avoid the crash and steered around but was impacted on her rear plane by vehicle three. This driver was taking Ambien as a prescription medication. This driver was not looking behind at the time of the vehicle. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of vehicle three, a twenty-six year old female was heading to pick her son up at school. This driver had been driving for about four minutes at the time of the crash. This driver was driving and two vehicles ahead of her were involved in a rear-end type crash. This driver stopped and avoided the crash with the vehicles ahead of her. This driver was taking Lamisil, Lotrel and birth control pills at the time of the crash. This drive drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle three was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded: this vehicle traveling; this vehicle decelerating. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle three was coded: not involved in first harmful event, The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.