The crash occurred on a two-way, two-lane undivided roadway. This was a straight, level, asphalt roadway with a posted speed of 40 kmph (25 mph). Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon, with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 2006 Toyota Corolla with two occupants, was driving southbound. The driver encountered a cul-de-sac at the end of the roadway. The driver placed the vehicle in reverse, and began to back the vehicle in a northbound direction. Shortly thereafter, the driver drove off the right side of the roadway. The back of the vehicle made contact with a large fixed concrete planter. The planter was located on a landscaped area, which sloped upward. Upon striking the planter, the back of the vehicle pitched upward, pirouetting on its left front end. The vehicle rolled to the left two-quarter turns. The vehicle landed on its roof, less than three meters from point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1.

V1 was driven by an 18-year old male who was transported to the hospital with injuries. He stated that he was walking to work when his estranged girlfriend drove by and offered him a ride. The ex-girlfriend allowed him to drive. According to the driver, a black Toyota Corolla with tinted windows began following him. The driver turned down a side street, supposedly to get away from the other vehicle. When the driver came to the dead-end, he reversed the vehicle and began backing aggressively in case the other car came back. The driver's account of the crash did not seem credible. Prior to the interview, the mother of the passenger arrived on scene. She was surprised to learn that the person driving was her daughter's ex-boyfriend. She indicated that her daughter and the ex-boyfriend were having personal issues, and were no longer dating. It was believed that the driver either got lost and was in a hurry, or that the driver and passenger were arguing while driving, and the crash may have been a result of anger and poor driving on the part of the driver.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver performance error, poor directional control. Rather than using the cul-de-sac to turn the vehicle around, the driver put the vehicle in reverse, rapidly accelerating backwards while not keeping the vehicle on a straight path. Associated factors for this driver include conversation with the passenger, aggressive driving, unfamiliarity with the roadway, and driver inexperience.