This single-vehicle crash began on the asphalt roadway and ended off-road. The asphalt roadway and the concrete were both dry and level. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph). There were signalized traffic devices on all the corners of the preceding intersection. The crash occurred in the late afternoon on a weekday. The traffic flow was normal and the weather was clear.

Vehicle one, a 2002 Mazda 626, was traveling northbound on a two way undivided roadway. The driver stopped at the intersection, red light and fell asleep. After awaking to the sound of a vehicle's horn accelerated across the intersection, speed unknown, jumped the east curb and contacted a narrow sign pole, continued traveling and contacted, with its front, the building's concrete steps where it came to final rest. Vehicle one was towed due to disabling damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1.

The driver of V1, a 53-year old female, said she was home studying and realized at the last minute she needed to pick up her daughter from school. She said she was very tired and sleepy, however, didn't have a choice. She figured it would only take a minute to pick up her daughter and return home.

She said while she was sitting at the intersection waiting for the light to turn green, she fell asleep and was awaken by the sound of a vehicle's horn. Startled, she panicked, opened her eyes and pressed the gas pedal accelerating through the intersection half asleep. She jumped the curb and contacted the sign pole (impact #1), continued to travel and contacted the building's cement steps with her front end (impact #2). The driver of vehicle one is a seasoned driver and was familiar with the roadway. She travels on it daily. She was transported to the hospital with injuries.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason was coded as sleeping, that is, actually asleep. Associated factors coded to this driver include Also, a performance error; panic and freezing and driver fatigue; driver only slept 4hrs the previous night. She normally sleeps 8 hours