This two-vehicle crash occurred in the early afternoon of a weekday in the middle of a busy urban intersection. The intersection was composed of a north/south, undivided six-lane roadway (3 in each direction) and an east/west, undivided eight-lane roadway (4 lanes in each direction) controlled by a properly functioning traffic control device. The bituminous roadways were dry, straight, and level with posted speed limits for all directions of 72 kmph (45 mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), 2001 Chevrolet Cavalier, was northbound in lane two approaching the intersection where it intended to go straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Subaru Impreza, was southbound approaching the same intersection where it intended to make a left turn eastbound. As V1 entered the intersection V2 failed to yield as it turned and was struck on the front right corner by the front of V1. After the initial impact, V1 rotated slightly counter-clockwise and traveled forward a few meters before coming to final rest facing north. V2, after impact, rotated counter-clockwise and came to final rest a few meter from the point of impact facing south. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a 34-year old male, was not injured in this crash. He said he was traveling northbound approaching the busy intersection when vehicle two drove directly into his path while attempting to make a left turn. He stated that neither one of us were speeding, both of us had the green light, but were coming from opposite directions. When asked why he did not see V2 approaching his vehicle, he replied he may have looked away from the road for a minute, but still could not explain why V2 turned in the first place. He was familiar with the roadway and was just riding along listening to the radio and then all of sudden V2 crossed in front of my vehicle.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded other motor vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over left lane line. The Critical Reason for V2 was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors for the driver of V1 include a recognition error, unspecified outside focus. The driver said he was not completely focused on is intended direction of travel.

The driver of V2, a 62-year old male, was transported to the hospital from the scene with minor injuries. After several subsequent attempts to reach him, the driver refused to participate in the study. He did claim that the driver of V1 was on a cell phone and cut in front of his vehicle.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason coded to this vehicle was an unknown driver error. There were no known associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle due to his unwillingness to participate with the study.