The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a five-lane highway divided by a concrete center divider. This was a straight, level concrete highway with a posted speed limit of 104 kph (65 mph). The highway was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was congested, with stop-and-go activity. This stretch of highway was within a construction zone. Work was being done on the shoulders of both the northbound and southbound lanes.

Vehicle one, a 1989 Mercedes 300E was traveling southbound in the number five lane. Vehicle two, a 2004 Nissan Murano was traveling southbound in the number five lane. As traffic began to slow due to congestion, vehicle two came to a stop. Vehicle one was in the process of changing lanes to the right, to pass the congestion, when the front of vehicle one made contact with the back of vehicle two. Both vehicles came to rest facing southbound in the number five-lane. Vehicle one was towed due to damage. Vehicle two was not towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1 and 97 kmph for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, an eighteen-year-old female was driving home after picking up her vehicle at her mother's home. The vehicle was getting its transmission repaired. She was now driving the repaired vehicle home. This driver had been driving for about ninety minutes at the time of the crash. She advised that she was traveling at about 82 kph to 96 kph (51 mph to 60 mph). She was looking to the right to find an opening in the number four-lane. When she turned to look straight ahead she noticed that vehicle two had stopped. She applied the brakes, but was unable to stop in time to avoid hitting vehicle two. This driver had only been driving for about one month. This driver is far sighted but was not wearing lenses. This driver does drive this vehicle daily and this was the first time on this roadway.

The driver of vehicle two, a seventy-two year old male was driving to a store after leaving another store. This driver had been driving for about one hour at the time of the crash. He was stopped due to the congestion at the time of the impact. This driver was taking a high blood pressure medicine. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was code as "other motor vehicle in lane: other vehicle stopped." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as a driver related factor: "external distraction". The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "other vehicle in lane: traveling in same direction with higher speed." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "not coded to this vehicle".