This three-vehicle crash occurred in a four-leg intersection. The east/west roadway is divided by a curbed grass median. The westbound lanes are curved to the right, have a 5% upgrade and consist of one through lane, a left-turn-only lane and a right-turn-only lane. The eastbound lanes are curved to the left, have a 5% downgrade and consist of one through lane and a right-turn-only lane. The speed limit on this roadway is 97 kmph (60 mph). The north/south roadway is level, straight, divided and is controlled by stop signs. There are two northbound lanes. The speed limit on this roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Kia Optima, was westbound in lane three, intending to turn left at the intersection. A tractor-trailer was in front of V1, also turning left at the intersection. V2, a 1987 Dodge Dakota, was eastbound in lane two, also approaching the intersection. V3, a 2003 Chevrolet Suburban, was stopped northbound, waiting to turn left after the traffic cleared. The driver of V1 was focused on the vehicle in front of her and did not notice V2 entering the intersection. The driver of V2 noticed V1 turning and applied the brakes, skidding longitudinally into the intersection. In the intersection, the front of V2 struck the right side of V1. V1 rotated clockwise and the left side struck the front of V3. V1 and V2 came to rest in the intersection and were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-nine-year-old male, was traveling from a store to work. He was well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He drives on this roadway daily. He takes Advil for his arthritis. This driver stated he looked for oncoming traffic, but that the tractor-trailer slowed more than he expected and he was concentrating on decelerating to avoid a rear-end collision.

The driver of V2, a twenty-eight-year-old male, was traveling with a ten-year-old female and a six-year-old male, was driving from their home to a hospital appointment. This driver was well rested and very comfortable with his route, vehicle and passengers. He stated that he was thinking about family problems just before the crash.

The driver of V3, a thirty-five-year-old female, was traveling with a sixty-four-year-old female, from a store to her home. She was healthy, well rested, familiar with her vehicle and rarely drives this route.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; external distraction." The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "not coded to this vehicle." The pre-event movement for V3 was coded as "going straight." The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded as "other; not involved first harmful event." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded as "not coded to this vehicle."