The crash occurred at an intersection of an east/west roadway and a driveway to a gas station. There were two eastbound lanes and three westbound lanes divided by a painted flush median. This was a level, left curving roadway in the eastbound direction. The bituminous roadway had a posted speed of 64 kmph (40 mph). It was early afternoon on a weekday. The roadway was dry and the sky was clear. This was a heavily traveled intersection and traffic flow was heavy at the time.

V1, a 2004 Chrysler 300M four-door sedan with one occupant, a 60-year old male, was traveling eastbound at a speed of approximately 40 kmph (25 mph) in lane 2. V2, a 1997 Mercedes-Benz E 320 four-door sedan with one unknown male occupant was facing north, exiting a gas station driveway, attempting to turn left onto the westbound roadway. V2 pulled into the path of V1 and the front left of V2 was struck by the front of V1. The driver of V2 then fled the scene, apparently uninjured. Both vehicles came to rest in the center painted divider facing north, 11.7 west and 2.8 meters south of the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V2, a middle-aged male wearing a large white coat, stated that he was getting gas at the station when an unidentified male walked up to him and started arguing. The unknown male then took his vehicle (V2), driving it out of the station and colliding with V1. He stated that after the collision the "unknown male" exited his vehicle (V2) and ran south past the gas station.

The driver of V1 stated that he had no time to react before V2 collided with his vehicle. He stated that after the collision, the driver of V2 got out of the driver's door and rolled over the top of V2 and disappeared. He described the driver as a middle-aged male wearing a large white jacket.

The researcher tried to talk to the original driver of V2, the male in the large white jacket, on the scene with little success. He stated that he wasn't the driver that caused the accident and didn't know the driver who took his vehicle. He spent most of the time on the scene talking to the officers. When the researcher later tried to talk to the driver he was uncooperative, refusing to answer any questions.

The police reported that the driver of V2 fled the scene on foot leaving the vehicle behind without providing any vehicle or driver information. Police are unwilling or unable to identify the driver or name the male in the white jacket as a witness.

V1, the Chrysler 300M, was driven by a 60-year old male. The driver of V1 had left home shortly before the crash (one mile south) and was on his way to a doctor's appointment. The driver was transported due to injuries. V2, the Mercedes-Benz, was driven by an unidentified male who fled the scene, apparently uninjured. The researcher believes that the middle-aged male in the white jacket did indeed drive V2, causing the accident. This reasoning is backed by the description given by the driver of V1.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was "Other motor vehicle encroachment from driveway, turning in the opposite direction." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factor coded to the driver of V1 was the use of prescription medications to control acid reflux, diabetes, and hypertension.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was "This vehicle turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event Reason was "Type of driver error unknown." No associated factors could be coded to V2 due to the lack of interview.