This two-vehicle crash occurred in a three-legged intersection. The north/south roadway is straight and divided by a curbed median. The northbound lanes consist of two through lanes that have a 10% uphill grade. There is an east/west roadway on the east side of the north/south roadway. This roadway is straight, two-lane, undivided and has a 7% uphill grade and a stop sign for westbound traffic. The speed limit on these roadways is 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Toyota Corolla, was stopped westbound, intending to turn left (south) in the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Pontiac Grand Am, was northbound in lane two. V1 entered the intersection and the left side was struck by the front of V2. The vehicles rotated and the left side of V1 struck the right side of V2. V1 came to final rest north of the intersection. V2 continued to the northwest, off the roadway and up an embankment. V2 then rolled down the roadway backward (southbound) to final rest on a crossing street. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a sixteen-year-old male, was traveling from his home to his school to play a game. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that he looked left and then right but did not see V2. He stated that he failed to look left again before entering the intersection.

The driver of V2, a fifty-three-year-old female, was traveling from a store to her home. She was well rested, in fairly good health and comfortable with her vehicle. She travels on this roadway weekly.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)." This driver's inexperience was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."