A single-vehicle crash occurred during the mid-morning daylight hours in the northbound side of an urban expressway. The southbound lanes did not play any roles in the collision. The northbound expressway consists of four lanes, which split into three straight express and two local exit lanes within the interchange area at a gore point. Within the gore point there are sand filled traffic barrels and a concrete Jersey barrier that divides the express and local lanes. This crash occurred in the gore area of the interchange between the second and third traffic lanes. The designated speed limit of for this roadway is 45 mph (72 kmph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1993 Oldsmobile Achieva carrying one occupant, was traveling northbound in the number two local exit lane traveling approximately 89 kmph (55 mph). The driver of V1 attempted to cross into the express lanes from the #2 local lane. The driver steered left traveling into the gore area and impacted seven traffic barrels filled with sand that were surrounding and lining the barrier wall. After impact, the vehicle came to a final rest on the express side of the barrier wall in the middle of the barrels, and partially in the travel lane. The driver of vehicle one did not have any indications of injuries and his vehicle was towed due to significant front-end damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1 was a 78-year-old male. A partial surrogate interview was obtained with the driver's son. The son did not know where his father was coming from or going to on the morning of the crash. The driver was not employed and had a pre-existing heart condition for which he took unknown medications. The son indicated his father wears glasses for astigmatism and was wearing them at the time of the crash. He reported the driver usually gets 8 hours of sleep per night but did not know what the driver's amount of sleep had been in the past 24 hours. He drives the route about 3 times per week.

A witness following V1 observed the crash and indicated there were no other vehicles involved in the crash. At the last second, the witness observed the driver of V1 abruptly steer from the number two exit lane, to the left into the gore area. V1 was traveling at a constant speed and the witness did not observe any efforts made to apply the brakes.

The critical pre-crash event for this vehicle was coded: this vehicle traveling/ off the edge of the road on the left side. Because the driver made the last second steering adjustments it was reasoned that he was not unconscious and able to steer his vehicle. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was a driver relater performance factor of: poor directional control (e.g., failing to control vehicle with skill ordinarily expected). The driver apparently took the wrong exit and did not properly maintain control of the vehicle while attempting to get back onto the expressway from the off-ramp exit lane.