This crash occurred on an undivided 4-lane roadway (two lanes each direction) on a weekday night. The roadway was straight, level and wet. The posted speed limit was 72 kmph (45 mph). It was dark out but the roadway was illuminated.

Vehicle #1, a 1999 Jeep Cherokee, was driven by a 22-year old male. He was traveling west in the second lane of travel. Vehicle #2, a 2000 Chevrolet Silverado pickup, was driven by a 39-year old female. V2 was traveling in the first lane of travel and changed lanes in front of V1. After traveling a short distance, the driver of V2 braked and then stopped in preparation of making a left turn into a bowling alley parking lot. The driver of V1 stated that he felt that V2 was going to turn left into the bowling alley just up ahead so he looked in his mirrors to make a lane change. When the driver of V1 looked back to the front it was too late to take any avoidance maneuver. The front left of V1 contacted the rear of V2 just as the driver of V2 began her left turn. The impact rotated V2 180 degrees, and V2 came to rest facing east in the first eastbound lane. Following the impact, V1 rotated counterclockwise and then began to roll over. After rolling two quarter turns to the right, V1 slid on its roof to final rest in the first westbound lane. The driver of V1 and the driver and occupants of V2 were transported to a local trauma unit. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 reported that he was in good health and was taking no medications. He stated that he had just dropped his sister and her boyfriend off at his parents home and was on his way to visit his girlfriend. He stated that as he traveled west in lane #2, V2 passed him on the right side then made a lane change into his lane in front of him. He then checked his mirrors to make a lane change into lane #1. He stated that when he looked back to the front, V2 had stopped to turn left into a driveway on the south side of the roadway. He reported that after his vehicle came to final rest, he crawled out of his vehicle and sat on the curb. He stated that somebody said the vehicle was on fire; he then did a military crawl to a tree in the front yard of a home nearby.

The driver of V2 reported that she was in good health, taking a medication for heartburn. The driver stated that she was traveling on the roadway going to the bowling alley for a night of bowling when the crash occurred. She stated she had stopped to turn left and was then struck from behind.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded: Other motor vehicle in lane - other vehicle stopped. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as inadequate evasive action. The driver stated that he thought V2 was going to turn into the bowling alley driveway ahead but did not take any evasive action to prevent the crash or lessen the severity of the impact. Associated factors coded to this driver include an exterior distraction because he was checking his mirrors in anticipation of the lane change and traveling too fast for conditions. As per the interview, the driver of V1 stated that prior to the crash, he had been traveling between 51-60 mph in a 45 mph zone.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded: Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to this driver was a distraction due to a cell phone conversation. The driver also reported that she had been experiencing work stress due to a new job.