This two-vehicle collision occurred on a six-lane interstate highway. This road has two High Occupancy lanes. The collision occurred in the northbound lanes of a north/south interstate highway. The northbound lanes are separated from the southbound lanes by a concrete center divider. The northbound lanes are dry, level, and concrete. The highway is designated an 89 kmph (55 mph) zone.

Vehicle one, a 2000 Honda Accord was northbound in the number five lane. Vehicle two, a 1994 Toyota Camry was northbound in the number four lane. As V1 was traveling straight, V2 changed lanes to the left. The left plane of V2 contacted the right plane of V1. The impact caused V1 to travel towards the west edge of the highway. The front plane of V1 contacted the concrete center divider. V1 then proceeded to roll unto its right plane. V1 came to rest on its roof facing west across the number six lane. V2 continued northbound without coming to rest. V1 received rollover damage and was towed from the scene. V2 received moderate damage and was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 121 kmph for V1 and 121 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-two year old female, was traveling from her boyfriend's home to a day of hiking at a park. The driver typically jogs 45 minutes to an hour every Sunday. The driver has never received any formal driver's training. The driver has only been driving for four years. The driver has asthma and takes an unspecified inhaler for the condition. The driver was having a social conversation with her boyfriend and listening to music as she was driving. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis. The police reported her speed to be 121 kmph (75 mph).

The driver of vehicle two, a thirty-one year old male was commuting to work. The driver was having a conversation with his co-worker as they were traveling. The driver had to arrive at work by 0830 hours. The driver was on schedule. The driver has not received any driver's training. The driver stated he had finished changing lanes when the other driver struck him. The driver did not see the other driver until the contact occurred. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis. The police reported this driver's speed to be 105 kmph (65 mph).

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from adjacent lane [same direction]-over right lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V2 and was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance.