This two-vehicle crash occurred in the eastbound direction of a t-type intersection. The roadway runs east and west with a hospital entrance/driveway at the southern part of the intersection. At the location of this crash, the roadway is straight, divided by a grass median and each direction has a speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The conditions this evening were clear and dark with the lighting coming from the hospital parking lot.

V1 was traveling west in the left-turn lane and V2 was traveling east in lane three, both were approaching the same intersection. The intersection is controlled by a pretimed traffic signal and the light was green for both directions as they entered the intersection. There is also a left-turn arrow on the signal for both directions. V1 entered the intersection and turned into the left side of V2. Both vehicles came to final rest in the intersection but only V1 was towed due to disabling damage. V1's driver was transported to the emergency room of the hospital for an examination but no one was injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.

V1, a 2002 Honda Accord Ex with one occupant, was driven by a 76-year-old female that was driving to the hospital this evening when she was involved in this crash. She stated that her husband had been in the hospital for weeks because of colon and heart surgeries and that she had been visiting her husband everyday and sleeping in his room each night. As she approached the entrance to the hospital, she stopped at the intersection in front of that entrance. She said she stopped for the left-turn arrow when it was yellow and waited an entire cycle until the arrow turned green before she began to turn left. As she entered the intersection, she noticed V2 coming in the opposite direction and she thought it was far away because it was coming over the crest of a hill. Once she had completed her turn and was about to enter the hospital, V2 had switched its lane and the two vehicles collided. She thinks the other car contributed to the crash by speeding and switching lanes but she reluctantly admitted that she may have misjudged the distance of the other car when she decided to make her turn.

A crash history report for this driver discovered that she was involved in a similar crash scenario at the same intersection four years earlier. The Critical Precrash Event for this driver was coded: "this driver turning left at intersection" and the Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded: "misjudgment of gap or other's speed."

V2, a 2000 Ford Taurus SE with three occupants, was driven by a 32-year-old female that was returning home after going to dinner with her son, mother, and mother's friend. She dropped off her mother's friend in a neighborhood she only travels through several times each month and while returning home, she was driving east in lane three and decided to switch into lane two as she approached an intersection. This driver states that the signal for her direction was green as she approached the intersection and she reports that she saw V1 waiting in the westbound left-turn lane. This driver said that as she entered the intersection, V1 accelerated across her path and the two vehicles collided. She thinks she steered right and hit the brakes before the impact and that she was definitely decelerating when the crash happened.

The Critical Precrash Event for this vehicle was coded: "other vehicle encroaching from opposite direction - over left lane line" and the Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle.