The crash occurred in a T-intersection of a 2-lane undivided east/west primary roadway with a 2-lane undivided north/south roadway. The northbound roadway ended at the intersection and was controlled by a stop sign. The east/west roadway had no traffic control device. Both roadways were dry and straight with a downhill grade of 4 percent. The posted speed limit on both roadways was 48 kmph (30 mph). The crash occurred on a weekend evening while still daylight. Traffic was moderate and the weather was clear.

V1, a 1992 Buick Regal 4-door, was occupied by only the driver and was northbound in lane one. V2, a 1998 Ford Ranger pickup truck, was occupied by only the driver and was eastbound in lane one. V1 had a stop sign. V2 had the right of way. It is unknown if V1 stopped at the stop sign. Neither the driver of V2 or a witness, who was driving her own vehicle three car lengths behind V2, could tell if V1 stopped. V1 turned left from the crossing street onto the main roadway across the path of V2. The driver of V2 saw V1 enter the intersection into his path and he hit the brakes and steered left across the centerline. V2 skidded about 15 meters before impacting V1 front to front in the westbound lane. V1 left no skid marks prior to impact. This impact caused V1 to rotate clockwise while V2 rotated counterclockwise as both vehicles skidded toward north edge of the east/west roadway. The back left corner of V1 struck the right side of V2 (impact 2) before V1 left the roadway on the north edge. V1 went completely off the roadway with its front wheels coming to rest on the upward slope of the culvert and the rear wheels on the downward slope. The front wheels of V2 came to rest in the bottom of a drainage culvert that sloped downward from the roadway at about a 66 percent slope and then upward from the bottom of the culvert at about an 83 percent slope. The rear wheels of V2 remained on the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 57-year old male who, although he was walking around after the crash, received possible injuries and was transported to the hospital. The police officer observed alcohol usage by the driver, who admitted to police that he had drank 4-5 beers. Police charged the driver with DUI and driving with a revoked license. The driver did not respond to numerous attempts to obtain an interview. The driver's attorney was contacted, and he also refused the interview.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was inadequate surveillance - failed to look, looked but did not see. Associated factors coded to this driver include alcohol use - medical records indicated a BAC of .22 and the medical conditions of high cholesterol and high blood pressure.

V2 was driven by a 22-year old male, who received possible injuries and was transported to a hospital. He stated that while he was eastbound in lane one traveling about 35 mph (56 kmph) he saw V1 pull out in front of him while making a left turn from the crossing street. He said he hit his brakes and steered left to try to avoid V1 but struck V1's front left with the front of his vehicle. He said his vehicle then went off the roadway to his left.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." The Critical Reason was not coded for this vehicle. An associated factor coded to the driver of V2 was the choice of an inappropriate/unsuccessful evasive action.