The crash occurred at the intersection of an east/west primary arterial road and a north/south secondary arterial road. The primary roadway consisted of 2 lanes in each direction and a left turn lane and featured a posted speed limit of 72kmph (45mph). The intersection was controlled by properly functioning traffic lights with no pedestrian signals. The eastbound approach was dry, straight and level. The westbound approach had a negative 2% grade but the intersection itself was level. Conditions at the time of the crash were dark but the roadway was lighted.

V1, a 1995 Ford Taurus, was eastbound approaching the intersection intending to turn left (north) onto the secondary roadway. V2, a 1998 Honda Accord, was westbound approaching the same intersection intending on going straight. Through traffic on the primary road had a solid green signal. As V1 commenced its turn and entered the intersection it was struck on its right side by V2. V1 then spun 180 degrees clockwise and came to rest facing south just a few meters north of impact and in the middle of the intersection. V2 came to rest still facing west very close to the point of impact. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 46 year-old belted female, who was transported from the scene by EMS to a local hospital for treatment of possible injuries. She stated in her interview that it appeared that she had time to make the turn even though her view of V2 was slightly obscured by headlight glare.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason was a driver related factor, a decision error, misjudgment of gap and speed. Associated factors include headlight glare as the driver view was partially obscured by V2's headlights.

V2 was driven by a 39 year-old belted male, who was uninjured in the crash. The airbags did not deploy. The right front passenger was coded as having sustained possible injury but was not transported. He stated he saw V1 approach the intersection but thought that she would stop. He hit his brakes as soon as he realized she was not stopping, but could not avoid the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from the opposite direction across the left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors for this crash include driver inattention as the driver was conversing with his passenger just before the crash.