The two-vehicle crash occurred on seven-lane divided roadway at the intersection of a two-lane undivided roadway. For northbound traffic there are four travel lanes. For southbound traffic there are four travel lanes. The road was dry, traveled, level asphalt. The posted speed limit is 72 kph (45 mph). Traffic was light at the time of the accident. This crash occurred during daylight hours with clear skies.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Toyota Tundra, was northbound in the first travel lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 Pontiac Firebird was southbound in the fourth travel lane, a left turn only lane. V1 entered the intersection and the left side of V1 impacted the front of V2. V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest facing west off the northeast corner. The left side of V1 was then struck by the front of V2. V2 rotated counterclockwise, the front of V2 struck the left side of V1 and came to rest facing north, in lane one north of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-eight year old female was heading to her daughter's school from a shopping mall at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about twenty minutes at the time of the crash & was listening to the radio. This driver stated that she was lost and had never driven the road before. This driver drives this vehicle daily. According to a witness listed on the police report, the driver of V1 disregarded a red light and entered the intersection, while the driver of V2 made a left turn with a protected green left-turn arrow. Based on this information, the driver of V1 was inattentive to the traffic controls due to being lost and listening to the radio. The driver claimed she was looking straight ahead and was not otherwise internally or externally distracted. Apparently she looked at the traffic controls but did not realize she had a red light, falsely assuming she also had the right-of-way.

The driver of V2, a twenty-year old female was heading home from work at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about twenty-five minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that she never saw the other vehicle coming. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis. As the driver of V2 proceeded to make her left turn on a protected green arrow, she made a false assumption that V1 would yield her the right-of-way.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment: from opposite direction-over right lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: not coded to this vehicle.