This two-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours on a weekday afternoon. The crash occurred at the four-leg intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway. Both roadways are five-lane, two-way, straight, level, bituminous roadways. The intersection is controlled by a tri-light traffic signal, and the speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph) in all directions. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions, and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Honda CR-V compact SUV, was traveling southbound in the second lane, and approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Ford Explorer 4-door SUV, was traveling eastbound in the second lane, approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. In the intersection, the front of V1 impacted the left side of V2. V2 deflected right and departed the road over the southeast curb, where the front of V2 broke through a fence and then impacted a tree. A branch fell from the tree and struck V2 on its roof. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 22-year-old female driver of V1 reported that her cell phone started ringing as she was approaching the intersection. She looked away from the road to look for her phone, which was not readily accessible. While she was looking away, the tri-light changed to the red phase. When she looked back up, she saw that she had entered the intersection, and V2 was directly in her path. She applied the brakes, but was unable to avoid a collision. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded as a driver-related recognition error: internal distraction.

The 50-year-old female driver of V2 was traveling with two passengers. She was engaged in conversation with her mother, the right-front passenger, as she entered the intersection during the green phase of the tri-light. She stated that she did not check to either side for crossing traffic because the light was green. She never saw V1's approach. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.