This two-vehicle crash occurred in the late morning hours. The primary roadway was a two-lane, undivided, bituminous arterial with paved shoulders that intersected at the crash location with a private driveway. It was daylight and raining. There were no obstructions and traffic was light. The speed limit for both vehicles was 40 kmph, or 25 mph.

Vehicle one, (V1) a black 1999 Volkswagen Golf four door hatch back, was traveling westbound approaching a right curve with a positive grade. Vehicle two (V2), a white 1997 Freightliner W700 Step-van (package delivery truck), was exiting a driveway north of the roadway. The driver of V2 stated he looked left, right and then left again before starting his turn, but did not see vehicle one approaching westbound. The driver of V2 swung the vehicle wide to its left in order to make the sharp right turn he was attempting to make. As V1 approached a driveway on the right, V2 pulled out in front of V1 while attempting to turn right onto the primary roadway. The driver of V2 braked and tried to steer left, but was unable to avoid an impact. The right front bumper of V2 struck the right side front of V2 twice. After these two impacts V1 was redirected off the roadway via the left/south shoulder. V1 struck a sign post located off the roadway with its left front corner and stopped on impact. V1 was towed due to damage. On impact V2 stopped, then it was driven eastbound to the south shoulder where the driver made a controlled stop. V2 was driven away from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 22-year-old female, was wearing a lap & shoulder belt. The vehicle is equipped with two frontal airbags, which did not deploy. The driver received a nose injury and was transported to a medical facility for treatment. The driver of V1 stated she saw V2 pulling out of the driveway, but assumed he would stop and yield. This driver had left her home about 20 minutes before the crash and was on her way to a muffler shop to have her vehicles exhaust checked. She was not in a hurry and was traveling at a reasonable speed. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was: other vehicle encroachment; from driveway, turning into same direction. The critical reason for the critical event was not assigned to V1.

The driver of V2, a 36 year-old male was not injured. It is unknown if he was wearing a seat belt. He is a commercial driver and makes local deliveries with V2. The driver had just completed some paper work for a delivery, and departed 5 minutes before the crash on his way to purchase some coffee. The driver claimed not to be in a hurry. He indicated he had stopped 3 to 4 seconds at the driveway before proceeding into the intersection. He reported that he was in good health and takes Flonase and Zyrtec medication spray for his allergies. Fatigue was not a factor for this driver. He was very familiar with the vehicle and had 18 years experience driving and for this class of truck, 2 years experience. There were no sight line restrictions at this intersection. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was: this vehicle traveling, turning right at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was related to V2's failure to yield as it entered the roadway. The critical reason was inadequate surveillance on the part of the driver of V2. He stated looked but did not see V1.