This intersection collision between three vehicles occurred during daylight hours with no adverse weather conditions. Traffic signal devices control the intersection. Roadway for westbound and eastbound vehicles is two-way, divided, with four lanes of traffic in each direction, straight, level, concrete, and the posted speed limit is 72 kmph (45 mph). Roadway for southbound vehicles is a two-way, divided, six-lane (four lanes for southbound traffic), straight, concrete, level, and the posted speed limit is 40 kmph (25 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Ford F-250 pickup occupied by a 45-year-old male driver and a 36-year-old male front passenger, was traveling west in lane three with the intention of going straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Toyota Sienna minivan with a 45-year-old female driver and a 6-year-old female left rear passenger in booster seat, was traveling south (stopped) in lane three with the intention of turning left (eastbound). Vehicle three (V3), a 2007 Cadillac Escalade SUV occupied by a 51-year-old male, was traveling east in lane four with the intention of turning left at intersection. As V3 attempted the left turn, the front of V1 struck the front of V3. Both vehicle rotated and the left side of V1 side slapped the right side of V3. V1 continued forward as it rotated and the front of V1 struck the front of V2 that remained stopped. V1 and V2 came to rest at the impact location. V3, after impact with V1 rotated and came to rest in the intersection facing south. V1 and V3 were towed from the scene; V2 was driven. There were no reported injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, who has a heart pacemaker, takes Toponol, aspirin, Lisinopril, and Vytorin as medications. He was returning to work after having lunch, had been driving for an unknown time and travels the roadway monthly. As the driver approached the intersection, traffic signal was changing from green to yellow and driver continued through intersection. Passenger warned that V3 was turning in front of them. The critical pre-crash event for V1 is coded as: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction-over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V2, who takes no medication, is familiar with roadway, was running errands and had only been driving few minutes when collision occurred. Driver did not perform any avoidance actions. V2 was not involved in the first harmful event. A critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

V3, a 2007 Cadillac Escalade SUV occupied by a 51-year-old male, was traveling east in lane four with the intention of turning left at intersection. Driver denied taking any medication, but a pill container containing Vicodin, Robaxin, and Hydrocodone was found in center console of vehicle during vehicle inspection. It is unknown if the drugs were prescribed for the driver or a member of the driver's family. Driver was returning to work after running an errand to a local store. Driver, who is familiar with roadway, had been driving less than 10 minutes when collision occurred. Driver stated he was stopped in turn lane and moved into center of the intersection and stopped to wait for westbound traffic to clear before making turn on yellow light. Witness statement confirmed V3 actions prior to collision. Driver stated he might have misjudged the speed of V1. The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V3 as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed.