The crash occurred in the middle of T-intersection. There were four lanes running northbound with lane four being a left turn only lane. There was a curbed median separating the north and southbound lanes. There were four lanes running southbound with lane four being a left turn only lane. The intersecting roadway had one lane heading westbound and lane two lanes eastbound. The intersecting roadway was controlled by a stop sign. The roadway was straight and level. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekend afternoon, which was also a holiday. The posted speed was a 72 KPH (45MPH).

Vehicle 1 was a 1998 Dodge Caravan that was traveling westbound in lane one approaching the T-intersection. The driver of V1 failed to stop at the stop sign and cut across the northbound lanes. V2 was a 1993 Toyota Camry that was traveling northbound in lane two when V1 ran the stop sign and V2's front made contact with the left side of V1. The driver of V1 and his pregnant girlfriend were both transported with injuries to a local hospital. The passenger of V1 was 4 months pregnant. Both vehicles were towed due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 19-old-male who refused to give an interview. While he was there a warrant was out for his arrest. He was arrested at the hospital and refused to give any information pertaining to the crash. The driver of V1 was cited for the crash and was arrested for driving with a suspended license.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was “this vehicle traveling turning left at the intersection”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was an “illegal maneuver”. Since the driver refused to talk, there are no associative factors related to this driver or any other information regarding the particulars of the crash.

V2 was driven by a 29 year old male who stated he was on his way home from church as it was a holiday, and was driving 101 KPH (40mph). He stated in the interview that he was driving along and the van just darted out across the lanes in front of him. V1 did not stop for the stop sign and just cut across the lanes of traffic He tried to hit the brakes and steer left but was unsuccessful. His front end made contact with V1's left side panel. The driver of V2 was not thought to have contributed to the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was “other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into opposite direction”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this driver, as he was not thought to have contributed to the crash. There were no associative factors related to the driver. He was not injured but his vehicle was towed due to damages.

A witness on scene also stated that the driver of V1 failed to stop for the stop sign. The witness was not on scene when I arrived and there was no contact information.