This is a two-vehicle intersection crash that occurred mid morning in daylight hours at a four-way intersection that is controlled by a traffic light on colors. There are two northbound and two southbound lanes that are separated by a left turn lane. There are also two southbound dedicated right turn lanes that are used to enter a military base. Traffic barriers separate the right turn lanes from the other lanes. There are three lanes at the east side of the intersection. There is one right turn lane and one left turn lane for westbound traffic. The roadways are straight, level and constructed of bituminous asphalt. The speed limit for the north/south roadway is posted 72 KPH (45 MPH). The roadway was dry and the sky was clear.

Vehicle one (V-1), a 2006 Pontiac Grand Prix sedan driven by a 60 year-old male was stopped in the intersection waiting to turn left. Vehicle two V-2, a 1987 Honda CRX 1500 driven by a 18 year-old male with one passenger was traveling northbound in the #2 lane. The traffic light turned yellow about 15-20 feet prior to V-2 entering the intersection. V-1 then made a left turn to travel eastbound. V-2 then applied the brakes and struck the right side of V-1. The impact caused V-2 to rotate clockwise coming to rest in the intersection facing in a northeasterly direction. V-1 drove through the intersection and stopped in a dirt lot at the southeast corner of the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

The driver of V 1 stated that he was traveling southbound and entered the left turn and stopped in the intersection for about 10-15 seconds. He said that there was a car in the northbound left turn lane and a car traveling northbound in the #1 lane. He looked down the road and saw V-2 approaching but did not know how fast he was going. He said that the light had been yellow for a while and knew it was going to turn red anytime. He then saw the northbound car stop just as he let his foot off the brake pedal. Another car traveled through the intersection northbound. He began to turn left and V-2 skidded into the right side of his vehicle.

The driver of V 2 stated that he was traveling northbound in the #2 lane at about 45 MPH. He said that about 20 feet before he entered the intersection. V-1 turned left in front of him. He said that there was another car northbound in the right lane slowing down as it was approaching the intersection. He said that he hit his brakes and then steered to the left to avoid hitting V-1. V 2 was towed from the scene V 1 left scene under own power.

The critical event for V1 was coded - this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection. Critical reason driver related factor "misjudgment of gap or other's speed".

The critical event for V2 was coded - this vehicle traveling crossing over passing through intersection. Critical reason not coded to this vehicle.