This two-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of a five-lane road and a two-lane road. Both roads are straight and level with no defects noted. The speed limit on the roadway is 56 kph (35 mph). There is a traffic light that controls the intersection. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one, a 1990 Chevrolet Silverado was northbound in the third lane, a left turn lane. Vehicle two, a 1996 Mitsubishi Gallant was southbound in the first lane. As vehicle one made a left turn its front plane was impacted by the front plane of vehicle two. Vehicle one rotated counter clockwise and headed southwest. Vehicle two headed southwest and came to rest on the sidewalk facing southwest. Both vehicles were towed with major damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a sixteen-year-old male was on his way to pick up a friend at a near by school. This driver was driving for about five minutes at the time of the crash. This driver has two years of driving experience. He wears contact lenses for a myopic condition. This driver indicated that he looked but did not see the other vehicle when he made his turn. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a sixty-one year old female was on her way home from shopping. This driver had been driving for about fifty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver has thirty-six years of driving experience. She has never had any drivers training. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as “this vehicle traveling: turning left at intersection”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to vehicle one and was coded as “driver related factor: inadequate surveillance”. The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “other vehicle encroachment: from opposite direction-over left lane line”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “not coded to this vehicle”.