This is a two-vehicle intersection crash that occurred mid-evening at a four-way intersection that is controlled by a traffic light on colors. There are two westbound and two eastbound lanes that are separated by a left turn lane. There is also a westbound right turn lane at the intersection. There are two northbound and two southbound lanes also separated by a left turn lane. The roadways are straight, level and constructed of bituminous asphalt. The speed limit for the westbound and the eastbound roadway is posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The speed limit for the southbound and northbound lanes is posted 72 kmph (45 mph). It was an evening crash during the hours of darkness. The roadway was dry and the sky was clear. The intersection is lighted.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Dodge Dakota 4x4 pickup driven by a 46 year-old male with one passenger, was traveling westbound in the #2 lane approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Jeep Cherokee 4x2 driven by a 25 year-old female, was traveling eastbound and stopped in the left turn in the intersection. The traffic light turned red just as V1 entered the intersection. V2 then made a left turn to travel northbound. V1 skidded for about 15 meters (49 feet) before it impacted with V2. The front of V1 struck the right side of V2 in the intersection. The impact caused V1 to rotate clockwise and travel in a northwesterly direction for about 3 meters (10 feet) before it came to rest in the intersection facing in a northwesterly direction. The impact caused V2 to rotate counterclockwise and travel in a northwesterly direction for about 7 meters (23 feet) before it came to rest in the intersection facing in a northerly direction. The vehicles came to rest within 2 meters (7 feet) of each other. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. The passengers from V1 and V2 were transported to a local medical facility. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction- over left lane line . The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. The driver of V1 was a 46-year-old male accompanied by a 36-year-old female passenger. This driver claimed there was no conversation or interior/exterior distractions for him prior to the crash. They were traveling from a city several 110 miles/kilometers away to his home in this city and had driver 322 kilometers (200 miles). Only a partial interview was obtained and there is no known information about work hours, sleep or fatigue known for this driver. Associated factors for this driver were: a false assumption that the driver of V2 was going to yield the right-of-way to this vehicle; and, consumption of alcohol according to the police report. According to police report this driver entered intersection on a red light and failed to yield the right of way to V2. Aggressive driving was coded as a factor to this driver for ignoring traffic controls.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection . The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions (for imposing on V1's, who was going straight, direction of travel). The driver assumed that since he had a protected green arrow, that V1 would yield the right of way to his vehicle. An associated factor for this vehicle may also have been the presence of the non-contact vehicle that stopped in the westbound #3 lane at the intersection creating a sight line restriction of V1.