Vehicle two (V2), a red 1995 Honda Del Sol SI, was traveling northbound in the outside right lane of a five-lane, undivided, two-way bituminous roadway. As V2 approached the intersection, the driver of V1 pulled into his travel lane. The driver of V2 locked his brakes and skidded across into the inside lane and its front impacted with the left side of V1. On impact, V2 rotated counter-clockwise 90 degrees and stopped in the center of the intersection, facing west. V2 was towed due to damage.

The driver of V1, a 69 year-old male, was wearing a lap and shoulder belt and was not injured. No information was obtained during the interview regarding health, fatigue or driving history due to the fact the interview was discontinued before completion because of a refusal. The interview was in-person and the driver appeared to be in good health. The driver claimed no sight line restrictions and was aware that V2 was approaching. He stated he pulled out into the intersection when V2 was approximately 45.7-meters (150-feet) from the intersection. If a vehicle were traveling the posted speed limit it would take about 3 seconds to cover this distance; for V2's estimated speed he would cover this distance in 2 seconds or less. The driver of V1 misjudged the speed of V2, pulled into the intersection to make his left turn and did not yield the right of way to V2. The critical event for this crash was the driver of V1 failing to yield and pulling across into V2's path of travel. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to the driver of V1 as a decision factor: misjudged the gap or other's speed. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V2, a 17 year-old male, was transported from the scene to a medical facility. The police report did not indicate severity of injury and no interview was obtained. The vehicle driver seat was improperly installed and came loose from the floor pan during the crash. Also, the passenger side airbag deployed, but the driver's side did not. It is unknown if the driver's side airbag was installed at the time of the crash. Medical records for the driver of V2 indicate he received a closed head injury, fractured nose, an elbow contusion and also a chest wall contusion related to this crash. There was no indication of alcohol, drug or medications as factors for this driver in the medical records. The records did include an estimated speed of 80 kmph, or 50 mph for V2. This speed estimate was probably fairly accurate because there were pre-impact skid marks of 25.6-meters (84-feet) in length. Using a slide-to-stop formula with perfect brakes a minimum speed of 68-kmph (38.8-mph) plus the speed loss created from the actual impact would indicate a pre-impact speed of approximately 80 kmph (50 mph) or greater. An associative factor of aggressive driving for speeding was assigned to the driver of V2. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason was not coded to V2.