The crash occurred in the east bound lanes of a T-intersection of a four lane urban roadway. The east/west roadway was divided by a grass island on the west side of the T- intersection with 2 lane in each direction. On the east side of the intersection there were five lanes, two in each direction with a left turn lane heading in the westbound direction. The intersecting street was controlled by a stop sign and had three lanes that were heading north/south with two northbound lanes the one on the right a right turn only and the one on the left a left turn only and one lane heading south.. The east/west road was level and straight. The posted speed was 56 kph (35 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday morning during rush hour. The conditions were clear and dry.

Vehicle 1 a 2004 Toyota Corolla was traveling north and approaching a T-intersection with a stop sign. V2 a 2000 Ford Van was traveling east in lane 2 and Vehicle 3 a 1992 Toyota Corolla was traveling west in lane 2. V3 was stopped in the intersection because of a traffic back up caused by the traffic signal. As V2 was passing through the intersection V1 came from the side street and V1's left front contacted V2 in the front right. V2 was steering left to try to avoid V1, after they collided V2 veered to the left and V2's left front contacted V3's left rear. V2 continued over a curb and through a parking lot till it hit a tree. V1 came to final rest heading north in the middle of the intersection. V2 came to rest off the north side of the road against the tree. V3 came to final rest heading west in the middle of the intersection. V1 and V2 were towed due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.

V1, the Toyota Corolla was driven by a 33-year-old woman with only a learner's permit. She stated in the interview she had just dropped off her son at school and had come to a stop in lane two at the T-intersection. She "claimed" she had been stopped for five minutes waiting for a break in traffic to turn left, she stated she saw V2, traveling in lane two and then claimed as she entered into the roadway/intersection "he decide to change lanes into lane 1" and hit her.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1, was “this vehicle turning left at the intersection”. The Critical Reason was a driver/decision factor, misjudgment of gap of others speed. The drivers story was unbelievable and she was cited a ticked for driving without a license and with only a learners permit. She was also cited a ticket for failure to yield right of way at a stop sign. An associative factor related to the driver was inexperience, as she only had her learners permit. She was not injured and her vehicle was towed due to damages.

V2, the Ford Van was driven by a 29 year-old male The driver of V2 stated that he was traveling in lane 2 when he notice V1 just cut across traffic, the driver of V1 never even stopped at the stop sign. He stated in his interview that in order to avoid seriously hurting the driver of V1, he tried the avoidance maneuver of braking and steering left. He ended up hitting the brake lights of V3 and then hitting a tree.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2, was “other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street turning into opposite direction”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. He was not injured but, his vehicle was towed due to damages. There were no associative factors related to this driver.

V3, a Toyota Corolla was driven by a 62 year-old female that stated she was driving west in lane 2 and was going 56 kmph (35mph) when V2 hit her in the left tail light.

The Critical Precrash Event for V3, was not coded, as it was not involved in the first harmful event. The vehicle was barley damaged and not towed due to damages and the driver was not injured.