The two-vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane (four overall), northbound roadway divided by a concrete median and a two-lane, undivided, southbound roadway at the intersection of a two-lane, undivided, east-west roadway. The southbound traffic was controlled with a stop sign. The northbound roadway was left curved, concrete with a posted speed of 48 kmph (30 mph) and a +4.9% grade. The southbound roadway was left curved, level, concrete and has a posted speed of 48 kmph (30 mph). It was afternoon on a weekday and the road was wet and a light rain was falling.

Vehicle one, a 1994 Mazda Protégé was southbound in the first lane. Vehicle two, a 2002 Chevrolet Silverado was northbound in the second lane. Vehicle one stopped at the stop sign and then entered the intersection and was struck on the front by the front of vehicle two. Vehicle one rotated clockwise and came to rest in the intersection facing southwest. Vehicle two rotated counterclockwise and came to rest in the intersection facing northwest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a thirty-one year old male was on his way home from work. This driver had only been driving for a few minutes at the time of the crash. This driver indicated that he was stopped at the stop sign. This driver stated that he drivers this road daily. This driver indicated that he saw vehicle two and that vehicle two never stopped. Vehicle two did not have to stop to turn left. It is unsure why this driver did not realize that the opposing traffic was not controlled by a stop sign.

The driver of vehicle two was a fifty-two year old female who was not interviewed.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as: this vehicle traveling: passing through [crossing over] intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to this driver and was coded as a driver related factor: false assumption of other road users actions. The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as: other vehicle encroachment: from opposite direction-over right lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was not coded to this vehicle.