The crash happened on a weekend during late morning hours. The location was a three-lane divided (with a positive barrier) straight highway. The weather was clear and the roads dry. The posted speed limit for the roadway was 97 kmph (60 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Chevrolet S-10 Pick up with one occupant, was traveling south performing rapid lane changes on the roadway. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Toyota Sequoia with four occupants, was traveling south in the third lane of the same highway. V1 drove off the road to its right onto a grass divider, located between lane one and an entry ramp to the highway. The vehicle reentered the highway as it initiated a counterclockwise rotation. It crossed all three lanes of traffic while rotating counter clockwise and moving south. . The vehicle departed the roadway to the left (east) and impacted a metal guardrail with its right side. V1 bounced back onto the east shoulder of the southbound lanes rotating counter clockwise. The vehicle rolled over onto its left side and onto its roof for a total of two-quarter turns. V1 was pointing west while lying on its roof. The front end of V1 was partially in lane three of the southbound lanes. The front left of V2 impacted the left front of V1. V1 rotated counter clockwise while on its roof. The left rear of V1 impacted the passenger/rear section of V2. V1 came to rest partially on the east shoulder of the southbound lanes and partially in lane three. V1 was on its roof, pointing east. V2 slowed down and came to a halt about 20 meters (60 feet) south of the final rest of V1. Witnesses and nearby motorists stopped and were able to roll V1 onto its left side in an attempt to free the driver of V1. V1 was towed from the scene. V2 was able to drive from the scene. The driver of V1 was ejected from the vehicle during the roll over event. The vehicle came to rest partially on top of the driver's body. Police Reported Travel Speed is 137 kmph for V1 and 137 kmph for V2.

A 50-year old male, who was pronounced dead at the scene, was the driver of V1. The researcher was unable to locate the driver's next of kin for an interview. He was traveling at a high rate of speed. The investigating officer at the scene measured the yaw marks and calculated a rate of speed of up to 137 kmph (85 mph). The researcher and police saw open beer cans at the final rest area of the vehicle. One police officer said one and a half cans of beer were found empty. According to another officer at the scene, his license was suspended for prior driving under influence of alcohol. Related police reports indicate the driver was involved in a minor crash minutes earlier. He fled the scene of the crash and was followed by the other vehicles whose drivers were a witness to this crash. The toxicology report stated a BAC of 0.38. The autopsy report also indicated the driver had a history of chronic alcoholism. The toxicology report was negative for drugs.

The critical per-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of road to the right side. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: aggressive driving behavior. The vehicle was traveling at a high rate of speed, changing lanes rapidly and fleeing from a previous minor crash. The driver of V2 observed this aggressive behavior as well. The movement of V1 after reentering the roadway suggests the driver over corrected his steering movements.

A 43-year old female drove V2, the 2005 Toyota Sequoia. The driver observed V1 in her side mirrors prior to the crash events. She noticed V1's aggressive and erratic driving behavior. She was briefly discussing avoidance actions with her mother, anticipating a possible crash. The driver was heading home from a visit to her sister at the time of the crash. She had driven about 30 miles from her sister's residence to the crash and was on her way to the southern part of the state. She makes this trip with her family once or twice a year.

V2 was not involved in first harmful event. No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle.