The crash occurred in the early afternoon of a weekend on the roadside of two-way, two-lane rural roadway. The bituminous roadway was dry, straight, and level with a posted speed limit of 89kmph (55 mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions during the daylight hours. An interview with the mother of the driver and a vehicle inspection were obtained on-scene. A follow-up witness interview was obtained.

V1, a 2001 Chevrolet Tahoe, was westbound on the roadway traveling at or near the speed limit. V1 began to swerve back and forth across the road before finally departing the roadway on the right side while rotating clockwise. V1 went down a slope where its front struck an embankment. V1 than rotated clockwise and the left side struck a tree. V1 came to rest facing southeast and was towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

V1, a 2001 Chevrolet Tahoe, driven by a 27 year-old female on her way to her mother's home to pick up her 2 of her children who had been staying there. The fully restrained driver and her 12 day-old infant in the center second row in a rear facing infant seat were transported from the scene to a local trauma center. The driver had a Caesarean section delivery 12 days prior and was also suffering from post-partum depression. The medications prescribed to treat aliments listed side effects of drowsiness, tiredness and poor muscle control. The driver stated she had been sleeping only about 2-3 hours per night for the last two weeks. The driver doubled the dose of her medication the night prior to the crash and slept 6 hours.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver related factor, a performance error of overcompensation. Associated factors include extreme fatigue and the prescribed medications the driver takes for her post-partum depression. Additionally stress and family concerns were also coded as associated factors. The driver was concerned about her children and housework.