This three-vehicle daytime collision occurred at midmorning daylight hours. The collision occurred northbound on a two way, two-lane road with parking along both sides. The pre-crash roadway north has a +4% uphill grade and bituminous paving. The intersecting roadway is straight, level and is paved with asphalt. The roadway has a speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph) for the east/west intersecting street and 48 kmph (30 mph) for the north/south roadway.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Honda Civic hatchback, driven by a 50 year-old male was traveling east in lane one entering a controlled intersection for east and west traffic. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Toyota Corolla sedan, driven by a 26 year-old female was traveling north in lane one of a two-way two lane undivided roadway entering the same intersection. Vehicle three (V3), a 1987 Jeep Cherokee was legally parked in a parking lane along the north leg of the intersection. V1 and V2 entered the intersection and the front of V1 struck the left side of V2. V1 came to rest just north of the impact in the northbound lane. Upon impact, the driver of V2 lost control, rotated clockwise and departed the right side of the roadway. The front of V2 struck the rear of V3. V2 continued up over a curb and the undercarriage of V2 impacted a tree stump. V2 came to rest facing northeast up on the tree stump. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event assigned to V1 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look , looked but did not see). The driver of V1 stated he didn't see V2 until impact. An associative factor was coded to the sunglare for the direction V1 was facing prior to entering the intersection.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into same direction. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was a legally parked vehicle and not involved in the first harmful event.