This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-leg, traffic signal-controlled intersection. Both roadways are divided by a curbed median. The southbound lanes are straight, downhill, dry and consist of two through lanes and a left-turn-only lane. The westbound lanes are straight, uphill, dry and consist of two through lanes and a left-turn-only lane. The speed limit for both roadways is 64 kmph (40 kph). It was dark with streetlights on at the time of the crash and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Ford F-150 pickup, was southbound in lane one. V2, a 2003 Pontiac Grand Am, was stopped westbound in lane two, waiting for a green light. V1 passed through the intersection at the same time as the signal for V2 turned green and V2 proceeded into the intersection. The front of V1 struck the right side of V2. The vehicles rotated and the left side of V1 struck the right side of V2. V1 continued to rotate clockwise and came to rest facing north-northwest on the west side of the intersection. V2 continued in a southwesterly direction and came to rest facing southwest in a parking lot. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a sixty-nine-year-old male, had just left a hospital after visiting his ninety-six-year-old mother. He stated that his mother is dying and he was thinking about calling his out-of-state sister to discuss signing paperwork for their mother's surgery. This driver admitted to drinking two beers earlier and his BAC on-scene was 0.127. He takes an unspecified medication for his high blood pressure condition. He claimed to be well rested although he works ten hours per day and had worked a total of fifty hours in the past seven days. This driver was familiar with his vehicle and his route.

The driver of V2, a forty-six-year-old female, was traveling to a store after playing volleyball for two hours. She takes Prempro for pre-menopause symptoms but otherwise is in good health. She had been on vacation the week prior to the crash and had only worked twelve hours since returning. She was familiar with her route and vehicle and was well rested at the time of the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inattention (i.e. daydreaming)."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "not coded to this vehicle."