This four-vehicle rear-end crash occurred on a late Sunday morning. The road was a straight, level, dry, bituminous, six-lane state highway. The southbound travel lanes consist of two through lanes and one left turn lane. The sky was clear and the posted speed limit was 64 kmph (40 mph). Traffic was moderate.

Vehicle four (V4), a two-door 2005 Dodge Dakota was southbound in lane one stopped for a red light. Vehicle three (V3), a four-door 2006 Chrysler Pacifica, was southbound in lane one stopped for a red light behind V4. Vehicle two (V2), a four-door 2002 Saturn L100, was southbound in lane one stopped for a red light behind V3. Vehicle one (V1), a four-door 2000 Pontiac Grand AM, was southbound in lane one traveling straight. . Driver of V1 did not stop in time and the front of V1 struck the back of V2. V2 was propelled forward where the front struck the rear of V3. V3 moved forward where the front struck the rear of V4. All vehicles came to rest forward of their impact locations facing south in lane one. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene; V3 and V4 were driven. The driver of V3 was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

A 23 year-old male was driving V1 and was the only occupant in the vehicle. He worked a total of 66 to 70 hours, with 12 hours being his shortest and 14 hours being his longest the week before and this was his only day off. He works out 4-5 times a week for one hour and usually sleeps six hours a night. He had gone to sleep at a friend's house after partying at around 0230 hours. He woke up at 0900 hours. He picked up his vehicle and was driving home. He is familiar with the vehicle and drives the route monthly. He had driven 8-kilometers (5-miles) and was looking to the right seat and trying to grab something. He looked up and saw the vehicles were stopped, so he applied his ABS brakes before impacting V2. Driver was arrested for DUI. Test results are unknown. Information from V1 indicated that the vehicle was exceeding the speed limit by at least 48 kmph (30-mph). The frontal air bags deployed at impact.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction. The driver had been drinking, driving aggressively and distracted.

A 75 year-old female was driving V2 and was the only occupant in the vehicle. She is retired with heart problems and both feet burn all the time. She takes Gapapinte, Diejohson, Atenolol, Lovastatin, Vitamins and Calcium. She walks in the swimming pool for exercise, but not lately. She states she falls asleep every night in her chair, wakes up and goes to bed and sleeps an average of 8 hours. The night before the crash, she stated she slept really well. Her father had passed away two days prior to the crash. She was driving from church to meet a friend at a restaurant and was thinking about her father, but feels it was not a concern at the time of the crash. She was leaving in four days to take care of the funeral, since she is the only child. She stated she was looking straight ahead with both hands on the steering wheel when the crash occurred. The driver stated the vehicle was stopped at first impact, which matched the crash circumstances.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event forV2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was not coded to this vehicle.

A 48 year-old female was driving V3 with her 20 year-old daughter sitting in the right front seat. The driver stated she is a schoolteacher and is off for the summer and just got back from vacation in Hawaii. She suffers from ulcers and takes Prilosec on a regular basis. She usually gets 8 hours of sleep a night and feels rested when she awakes. She slept 9 hours the night before the crash and stated she is suffering from the time difference. She was looking straight ahead, with both hands on the steering wheel and listening to a CD. She was driving from home to a restaurant to meet friends for lunch.

V3 was not involved in first harmful event. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was not coded to this vehicle.

V4 was stopped also at the time of impact. Data was not required to be collected on this vehicle.