The crash occurred in the westbound lane of a two lane undivided roadway with one lane in each direction. The eastbound pre-crash roadway had a double curve first to the right (radius of curvature of 125m, super-elevation of 4%) and then to the left (radius of curvature 144m with no super-elevation) followed by a straight level section. The westbound pre-crash roadway was straight and level. The road was wet from earlier rain. The posted speed limit was 72kph (45mph) and traffic was light.

V1, a 1988 Honda Accord two-door with two occupants, was eastbound negotiating the curves. V2, a 1995 Ford Windstar with two occupants was westbound on the straight portion of the roadway. As V1 exited the second curve it departed the roadway to the right. The driver steered hard left and V1 veered out of control as it crossed both lanes in a counter-clockwise rotation. V2 tried to avoid a collision with V1 by pulling off the right edge of the westbound lane and stopping with the two right side wheels in a ditch. V1 continued its rotation and struck the front of V2 with its right as it departed the roadway. V1 then struck the embankment on the north side of the roadway head-on before coming to rest facing north against the embankment. V2 came to rest still westbound with its two right side tires in the ditch. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 23 year-old female, was coded for non-incapacitating injuries and was transported to a hospital. The 20 year-old female passenger asleep in the right front seat of V1 was killed instantly and later transported to a hospital. During the interview the driver of V1 claimed to be suffering from amnesia and said she did not recall what happened during the crash. She said she was transporting her passenger home from a hotel on the opposite side of the county. She said they had only slept a few hours at the hotel after spending most of the night out, but was not intoxicated (as proven by medical records). She did remember going into the curve and thought she fell asleep causing her to lose control.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the left side of the travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as overcompensation. As the driver of V1 woke up after her vehicle drifted off the road to the right she steered hard left (and subsequently lost control of her vehicle). Associated factors coded for V1 include driver fatigue, a tire deficiency (the tires were all undersized and both front tires had poor tread) and the wet roadway.

The driver of V2, a 50 year-old male and the 48 year-old male passenger seated in the right front seat received non-incapacitating injuries and were transported to a hospital. The driver reported that he had just had lunch and was on his way to a car dealership when he noticed V1 coming towards him in the opposite direction. He noticed that V1 appeared to be out of control. He thought it was going to hit a house on the south side of the road. He said that he intentionally pulled over and stopped his vehicle with the right side tires in the ditch along the north side of the roadway. According to the driver of V2, V1 re-entered the roadway and spun counter-clockwise across both lanes and then struck his vehicle.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction over the left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The only known associated factor coded to V2 was the wet roads present at the time of the crash.