This single vehicle rollover crash occurred in a three-leg intersection that joins with a private driveway. The north/south through roadway is straight, level, and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). The east/west roadway extends east from the north-south roadway, has a downhill grade is straight and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). It was early afternoon on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was cloudy; traffic flow was moderate.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 4 wheel drive Toyota two-door extended cab pickup with a camper top, had eight occupants- four in the cab and four in the camper. V1 was turning left onto the eastbound roadway from southbound lane three, a through lane, of the north-south roadway. As V1 entered the eastbound roadway, it rolled ¼ turn onto its right side. The momentum carried V1 in a slide over a bike lane and into an implied parking lane. V1 slid off the south side of the road, where it rolled another ¼ turn, impacting the curb and a brick landscape wall with its top. The camper top separated from the truck bed during the crash. The vehicle was towed from the scene. Four of the occupants were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1.

A 16-year-old male who reported no injuries drove V1. He advised that he was going about 48 kmph (30 mph) and making the turn when the truck went up on two wheels. He said he "froze" when that happened and didn't know what to do to correct the situation so didn't take any avoidance action. The driver is familiar with the vehicle and drives the route daily. The eight occupants were returning to school after a lunch break.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as "driver related factor, too fast for curve/turn". An associated factor for this driver is that he was likely showing off for his friends, because he said in the driver interview that he jerked the wheel and accelerated just prior to the crash. He did not comply with a state law that places a restriction on the licenses of new drivers. They are supposed to have only one occupant under the age of 21 in the vehicle while they are driving. Driver inexperience contributed to the cause of the crash as well. The driver attempted an illegal maneuver by turning left from a through lane instead of the left turn lane. Four of the eight occupants were located in the bed of the truck. As the vehicle initiated the left turn, the occupants shifted to the right side of the bed, adding to the propensity for the truck to roll over. The driver of V1 stated they weren't late for their classes yet - they had eight minutes - but that he was just trying to get everyone back on time for their classes. He reported that he got ten hours of sleep the night before the crash. He takes vitamins daily and works out after school for 1 to 1 ½ hours.