This four-vehicle crash occurred on a straight, level roadway during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions. This roadway consists of two lanes in the westbound direction, one lane in the eastbound direction and a center left turn lane. The speed limit on this roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). The eastbound lane has a six percent uphill grade. Traffic was congested at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Ford Escape, was traveling eastbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Nissan Pathfinder Armada, was stopped eastbound in lane one in front of V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 2000 Honda Accord, was stopped in front of V2 and vehicle four (V4), a 2006 Jeep Liberty, was stopped in front of V3. The front of V1 struck the back of V2, the front of V2 struck the back of V3 and the front of V3 struck the back of V4. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-four-year-old male, was traveling with his dogs in the back seat, from the dog park to his home. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route weekly. This driver stated that his dogs were jumping around and he turned around to try to get them under control. He did not notice that the traffic in front of him had stopped.

The driver of V2, a forty-one-year-old female, was traveling with three children. She was not interviewed; no further information is available for this driver.

The driver of V3, a forty-one-year-old female, was traveling with four passengers. She was not interviewed; no further information is available for this driver.

The driver of V4 was a fifty-one-year-old male and was not interviewed; no further information is available for this driver.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.