This three-vehicle evening crash occurred during evening hours on an urban, 4-way intersection controlled by tri-light traffic signals and also pedestrian signals. The east/west roadway consists of six lanes, has a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph), is straight, level, undivided, bituminous, and was wet at the time of this crash. Both the east and west roadways have four lanes on approach and two lanes on the far side of the intersection. The approach consists of one left turn lane and three through lanes. The north/south roadway has one through lane and a left-turn lane before the intersection and one through lane on the far side of the intersection. At the time of the crash there was heavy rain, but the roads were illuminated by street lights and there were no sight restrictions or road defects. There was heavy rain ongoing at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1989 Pontiac Sunbird 2 door driven by a 19 year-old female with one passenger was westbound in the number four lane approaching the intersection intending to turn left. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Dodge Grand Caravan minivan driven by a 21 year-old female with one passenger was eastbound in the number two lane approaching the intersection intending to go straight. Vehicle three (V3), a 1995 Volkswagen Golf 4 door driven by a 20 year-old male was stopped at the intersection in lane one of the northbound roadway. V1 and V2 entered the intersection and the two vehicles collided head-on, then side slapped as V1 rotated counterclockwise and V2 was redirected to the southeast. V2 then had a minor head-on collision with V3 and came to rest near that impact. V1 came to final rest after exited the road at the southeast corner of the intersection and came to final rest on the sidewalk touching a pole. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene, V3 was driven from crash scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

As the driver approached the intersection, she decelerated in the traffic lane, assumed the other vehicle was going to stop on a yellow light and proceeded to turn left. She failed to yield the right of way to V2. The V1 driver was talking to her passenger & listening to the radio prior to the collision. They were on a social trip, going from a relative's home to another friends home and claimed not to be in a hurry. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction, over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.