This two-vehicle crash occurred at a 4-way suburban intersection during early afternoon hours on a clear sunny weekday. The main roadway ran north and south with an intersecting secondary road that ran east and west. Both roadways were undivided two-lane roadways. The east/west roadway was controlled by stop signs; the north/south roadway had no traffic control device. The northbound road had a negative 2 percent slope, while the eastbound road has a positive 2 percent slope. Both roads were bituminous asphalt with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph).

V1, a 1999 Chevrolet Blazer with two occupants, was traveling eastbound in lane 1 of the secondary road approaching the stop sign at the intersection. V2, a 2006 Ford Escape Hybrid with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane one approaching the same intersection. V1 did not stop at the stop sign and entered the intersection as V2 was approaching. V2 left 16 meters (53 feet) of narrow skid marks before contacting the right passenger area of V1. The collision caused V1 to yaw clockwise and leave approximately 6.5 meters (21 feet) of skid marks before overturning, left side leading. V1 then traveled another 6.5 meters (21 feet) before coming to final rest on its top against the westbound north curb and stop sign, facing southeast. V2 came to final rest several meters north of point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.

The Chevy Blazer (V1) was driven by a 20-year old male who was working in the area as a carpenter. The driver had minor injuries as a result of this crash, but was not transported for treatment. He stated that he and his female passenger where on their way back to their job site, a house they were renovating in the area, from having lunch a mile away. He was not familiar with the roadway and area and claimed to have only worked at the house a few times. The driver said that he didn't remember where the house was; therefore, he was driving around the neighborhood looking right and left out his side windows trying to recognize the house. He claimed to have been driving 16 kmph (10 mph) through the stop sign when all of a sudden he was struck on his right side by V2, causing his vehicle to skid sideways clockwise and roll over 2 times. He took no avoidance maneuvers because he never saw V2 coming. He also claimed that the uphill grade of where V2 was coming from contributed to his obstruction of vision, but also claimed he didn't see the stop sign because he was looking out his side windows, mainly to the left.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling- passing through intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as an external distraction, a recognition error. This driver also was distracted by his passenger. He reported they were both talking and looking for the house together. Other associated factors coded to this driver include inadequate surveillance, work stress (required to work extended shifts), unfamiliarity with the roadway, and an illegal maneuver.

The Ford Escape (V2) was driven by a 51-year old female who worked full time. She suffered burns on her hands from the airbag and neck and back pain, but was not transported from the scene. When this crash occurred she was on her way to pay a doctor's bill on her lunch break. She said she was driving down the roadway as she does on a weekly basis at 72 kmph (45 mph) when V1 ran a stop sign and pulled out into her path. She slammed on her brakes, and steered right to avoid the collision, but was unsuccessful. The front of her vehicle contacted the right passenger side of V2; the force eventually caused V1 to roll over. Her airbag deployed and she came to final rest in the intersection.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment - from crossing street, across path." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded for the driver was speeding. She admitted to exceeding the speed limit. She reported she had left work later than usual for her lunch break and was coded as being in a hurry. The driver of V2 suffered from a thyroid disorder, which made her feel tired most of the time.