The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a six-lane urban roadway separated by a concrete median. There were three northbound lanes and three southbound lanes. It was early afternoon on a weekday and the roadway was straight and level. Traffic flow was normal and the posted speed limit was 72 KMPH (45 MPH).

Vehicle #1 was a 2005 Ford Freestyle minivan that was driven by a 63-year-old male. The driver of V1 had just taken his passenger to a doctor's appointment and was on his way home. He was traveling in lane 3 at approximately 56 KMPH when V1 drifted over the right lane line into lane 2. V1 continued drifting to the right and into lane 3 where it sideswiped V2, a 2005 Ford Econoline van that was driven by a 45-year-old male. The driver of V2 was traveling approximately 56 KMPH in lane 1, coming from a work site on his way to another work site. After sideswiping V2, V1 continued off the roadway to the right and impacted a concrete utility pole where it came to final rest. The driver of V1 exited his vehicle and initially told the driver of V2 that he had swerved to avoid a dog in the road. When the driver of V2 stated that he saw no dog, the driver of V1 stated that he did not remember what had happened. The driver of V2 and two people who had witnessed the crash reported that they had not seen any dog or any other animal obstructing the roadway. There were no skid marks or physical evidence supporting the story of a dog. The angle in which V1 veered off the roadway was consistent with either someone falling asleep or blacking out, as the trajectory was a gradual veer and not a hard swerve that would be associated with an avoidance maneuver. There were no skid marks indicating hard braking, which would also be consistent with someone trying to avoid an animal in the roadway. The driver of V1 suffered from diabetes and EMS on scene tested his blood sugar levels but concluded that they were within normal limits. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the right side of the travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as an unknown critical non-performance error. It was believed that the driver of V1 had some sort of a blackout, seizure, or mini-stroke while driving that caused him to relinquish control of his vehicle. This was chosen even though the driver of V1 claimed he was trying to avoid a dog (that no one else saw). His second statement (to the driver of V2) was deemed more credible when he told him that he didn't remember what had happened. Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 included his medical condition of diabetes and the fact that he only drives that roadway monthly. He was transported to the hospital with injuries and his vehicle was towed due to damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane, over the left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle, and the driver was not thought to have contributed to the crash. There were no associated factors coded to this driver and V2 was not towed.