This crash occurred in the southbound lane of a 2-lane undivided roadway. There was one southbound and one northbound lane. Just up ahead from where the accident took place there was an additional left turn-only lane on the southbound side of the roadway. The bituminous roadway was straight, level, and dry with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred in the early weekend evening. The traffic flow was light to moderate. The skies were dark, but the roadway was well lit by streetlights and nearby shopping center lights.

V1, a 2002 Nissan Pathfinder sport utility vehicle with two occupants (contrary to police report), was traveling in the southbound lane one intending to continue straight through the intersection. V2, a 2003 Jeep Liberty sport utility vehicle with a single occupant, was traveling southbound in lane one intending to continue straight through the intersection. V2 was following V3. V3, a 2000 Daewoo Nubira 4-door sedan with three occupants, was traveling southbound in lane one also intending to continue straight through the intersection. V3 was slowing down for the non-contact cars ahead of it that were stopped for the red light. V2 consequently slowed down for V3. As both vehicles came closer to the intersection, the light turned green, but the non-contact vehicles remained at a stop so both V3 and V2 continued to decelerate. V1 was traveling behind V2 and the driver of V1 did not slow down for the traffic ahead until he was too close to avoid the collision with V2. The front of V1 struck the rear of V2 at approximately 56 kmph (35 mph). V1 tried to avoid the collision with V2 by braking and steering but was unsuccessful. This collision forced the front of V2 into the rear of V3. When V3 was struck, the traffic ahead had just started to move forward so V3 was able to avoid a further collision. All vehicles came to final rest at approximately the same spot as the final point of impact. V1 was later towed due to damage. The rear of V3 and the front of V2 were stuck together and were eventually separated by the tow truck. Both vehicles could be driven once they were separated. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Nissan Pathfinder, was driven by a 62-year-old male with one other occupant. Neither the driver nor the occupant reported injuries. The driver was leaving his home and heading to his occupant's home at the time of the crash. The driver of V1 stated that he tried to avoid the collision with V2 by braking and steering right. The driver admitted to having been talking with his passenger at the time of the crash. He said he didn't see the vehicles ahead or that the vehicle in front of him was slowing down until it was too late to avoid the collision.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane-traveling in the same direction while decelerating." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was an internal distraction due to the conversation with the passenger, a recognition error. The driver stated that he just didn't realize that the vehicles in front of him were slowing down for the light ahead. Associated factors coded to this driver were the use of prescription medication and an unspecified heart condition.

V2, the Jeep Liberty, was driven by a 62-year-old female who reported no injuries. The driver stated that she had left a friend's house and was driving to a fundraiser bingo event held at a local school. She was following the vehicle in front of her to the same event. The driver was slowing down for V3 because there was traffic up ahead waiting at the red light. The light turned green, but the traffic in front had not all started to move through the intersection, so V2 continued to slow down. As V2 was almost at a complete stop, it was struck from behind by V1. This impact forced her vehicle into the rear of V3.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane-traveling in the same direction with a higher speed." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to this vehicle.

V3, the Daewoo Nubira, was driven by a 49-year-old male who reported no injuries. The two occupants in the vehicle reported "C" injuries and were transported to the hospital. The driver was leaving the same friend's house as V2 and was traveling to the same fundraising event as well. V2 was following V3. The driver stated that as they got closer to the intersection the light was red and traffic was stopped. V3 slowed down. The light turned green, but the traffic ahead had yet to start moving so V3 continued to slow down. When V3 was almost at a complete stop, he heard the impact between V1 and V2 and looked in the rearview mirror and saw V2 pushed into him. The driver stated that if the traffic ahead did not start forward as he was getting hit from behind, he would have struck the vehicles in front of him.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V3 was not coded for this vehicle because V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. No Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. One associated factor coded to this driver was conversation with the passengers at the time of the crash.