This two-vehicle crash occurred at a 4-legged intersection. The main road runs north south with no control devices. The secondary roads runs east/west and is controlled by stop signs. Southbound approach was straight, with an uphill 2.4% slope. Both roads were bituminous with an authorized speed limit of 88 kph (55 mph). Conditions were dark and clear with no artificial lighting. Setting was early evening hours on a weekday. Traffic was moderate on both roadways due to evening rush hour.

Vehicle One (V1) was a 1995 Chevrolet 1500, large pickup with one occupant traveling eastbound in lane 1. Vehicle Two (V2) was a 1989 Ford F-150, large pickup with one occupant traveling southbound in lane 1. VI was stopped at the stop sign with the intention of crossing through the intersection. VI pulled out into traffic and was struck on the left side by the front plane of V2 (Event 1). V2 was traveling at 88 kph (55 mph) and left 10.5 meters (34 feet) of skids mark prior to impact. After impact, VI rotated counterclockwise approximately 120 degrees, traveled 6.75 meters (22 feet) southeast and came to final rest with its rear bumper resting against the east embankment (Event 2), facing west. V2 after impact rotated approximately 90 degrees, traveled 7 meters (23 feet), and came to final rest facing east in lane 1. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

VI, the Chevrolet 1500, was driven by a 53 year-old male who suffered disabling injuries and was admitted to the hospital for treatment. He owns his own carpentry business and was possibly on his way to meet a client. This driver or his family were unable to be reached or located. An eye witness could confirm that this driver was stopped at the stop sign, then for an unapparent reason, he pulled out in front of V2. His vehicle suffered severe left side damage and was towed from the scene.

The Critical Pre crash Event for VI was "this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was Unknown. It is not clear why the driver of VI entered the intersection. According to medical records, the driver did test positive for cannabinoid. It is unknown if the driver had consumed cannabis within 24 hours of the crash. He also had a history of coronary artery disease, for which he had bypass surgery to correct. No further information is known on this driver. Rush hour congestion was also coded as an associated factor.

V2, the Ford F-150, was driven by a 24 year-old male who was transported from the scene with evident injuries. He is a part-time college student and works 20 hours per week landscaping. He reportedly just had dinner with his wife at Applebee's. She drove him back to his truck which was parked due to a dead battery. He changed the battery and pulled out, back onto the highway. A state trooper was directly behind him, and wife behind the state trooper. He was driving at 88 kph (55 mph) as he approached the intersection. He reported moderate traffic on the roadway. He noticed VI stopped at the stop sign with several vehicles behind him. All of a sudden, VI pulled out into traffic. The driver of V2 hit the brakes, locking them up, but didn't steer left or right, in fear of rolling his vehicle. He then collided with the left side of VI at 80 kph (50 mph). His vehicle was towed from the scene with severe front-end damage.

The Critical Pre crash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. An associated highway factor for this driver was - rush hour congestion. An associated vehicle factor was under-inflated rear tires. The recommended PSI for the rear tires was 35 PSI. This vehicle had 16 PSI in both rear tires.