The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a four-lane roadway divided by a positive barrier. There were two northbound lanes and two southbound lanes. The roadway was level and had a posted speed limit of 105 KPH (65 MPH). The southbound lanes curved to the left with a radius of curvature of 1,125 meters and no superelevation. The weather was clear, the roadway dry and it was daylight at the time of this early morning weekday crash.

V2, a 2007 Freightliner tractor towing a van semi-trailer (fully loaded with 48,000 pounds of beer in kegs and on pallets) was traveling south in the driving lane. V1, a 2004 Buick Century was traveling south in the passing lane. V1 began to pass V2 and drifted into the driving lane striking V2 in the left side with its right side. V1 corrected to the left onto the left shoulder then corrected back to the right. V2 slowed and drove onto the right shoulder. V1 crossed both lanes and was struck in the right side by the front of V2. V1 continued on the right shoulder, corrected to the left, re-entered the driving lane and corrected to the right. V1 rotated counter-clockwise off the right side of the roadway, struck a delineator, went down a small embankment and struck the back side of a ditch with its rear. V1 came to rest facing in a southeasterly direction. V2 continued off the roadway to the right, struck a “Emergency Stopping Only” sign with its front, down a grassy mall, over a ditch and struck a 60 cm tree with its front. V2 continued and struck an unknown diameter tree with its front. V2 continued, struck a 70 cm diameter tree with its front and came to rest facing in a southerly direction. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police did not consider either alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no tests. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Buick Century, was driven by a belted 75-year-old female who reported a minor bruise but refused treatment. The belted 78-year-old male right front seat passenger was not injured. The driver advised that she and her husband had been visiting friends and were on their way home. They had left at 6:00 a.m., but had just stopped a few miles back for breakfast. She indicated that she was conversing with her husband about social matters. She stated that she was in the passing lane traveling at 65 MPH next to the truck, felt a “bump” and then it felt like the car was being pushed. She attempted to stay on the road, but ended up in the ditch. She stated that they lived in Florida, took the Auto-Train back and forth to their daughter's in New Jersey. She drove this road rarely. She considered herself in good health, took a prescription medication for bone loss and wore corrective lenses for hyperopic (far-sighted) and myopic (near-sighted) conditions.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the right side of the travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was poor directional control (failing to control vehicle with skill ordinarily expected). This was chosen because the driver drifted into the driving lane striking V2. It is possible that she may have gotten caught in the truck's wash, which pulled her to the right. It is also possible that as she was talking to her husband she was not completely focused on the driving task. Associated factors coded to this driver were prescription medications and vision impairment.

V2, the 2007 Freightliner, was driven by a belted 47-year-old male who reported no injuries. He stated that he just got his first brand new truck (had it for three days) after driving trucks for 20 years and was on his way to have it washed before he picked up his load. He drove only locally, usually worked 8-10 hours per day Monday through Friday and was home every night. He indicated that he had pulled from the ramp into the driving lane and was just getting up to speed (vehicle has governor and does not go over 65 MPH). He noticed a vehicle in his rear view mirror along side that was weaving, thought it was someone that knew him and was kidding around. He said that she came into his lane and “nicked” him. He observed her “shoot” over to the left side of the road and thought she was going to continue into the median. She crossed back and hit his left steer axle. He lost his steering and went off the right side of the road into the woods. He considered himself in good health and took no medications.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane (same direction) over the left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. No additional factors were coded to this driver.