The crash occurred on a primary arterial road that was not physically divided, ran east/west and was straight. The road was in a residential area. There were two westbound lanes and two eastbound lanes with a double yellow line as divider. The westbound approach to the crash scene had a +3.9% grade and the eastbound approach had a -3.9% grade. The roadway had a speed limit of 72kph (45mph). Conditions at the time of the crash were dark, unlit, and dry on a weekday evening.

V1 was a 1999 Dodge Ram 1500 4x4 pickup truck traveling west in the 2nd lane. V2 was a 1995 Saab 900S convertible also traveling west on the road to the immediate right of V1. V1 attempted to change lanes to its right and struck the left side of V2 (a glancing blow) and began to brake heavily as it crossed back into its original travel lane and went into the left eastbound travel lane where it hit front to front with V3, a 2002 Lexus RX300 that was traveling east in the second eastbound travel lane. V2 drove onto a sidewalk west of the crash location and came to a controlled stop. V1 came to rest about 5.5 meters west of impact #2 facing west, straddling the double yellow divider. V3 went to the right (south) shoulder and came to rest about 45 meters east of the crash location (impact#2) facing northeast. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene. V2 was driven away. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a forty-nine year old belted male whose airbag did not deploy in the crash. He was uninjured in the crash. He was a doctor who had gotten off work late due to an emergency surgery at a local hospital and was on his way to (and late for) a social engagement. He said that he was in a hurry, his cell phone had just fallen on the floor and he was reaching for it when he checked his right mirror and began his lane change to the right. He claimed that he was unable to see anyone next to him.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the right side of the travel lane”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was “internal distraction”. The driver was coded as being fatigued due to work schedule demands and not much sleep. The driver stated that he was irritated at being late. His work schedule was also coded as work related stress.

V2 was driven by a forty-three year old belted male whose airbags did not deploy in the crash. He was uninjured in the crash. He was on his way home from work at the time of the crash although only an initial statement was acquired on scene, as he did not wish to be contacted for a follow-up.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was “other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane over left lane line”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No other factors were coded to this vehicle.

V3 was driven by a belted forty-four year old female whose airbags did deploy in this crash. She was uninjured in the crash. She was following her kids back to school after meeting them for dinner.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. The drivers' vision was corrected by glasses that she was wearing at the time of the crash. An experience factor of only driving the road rarely was coded to this vehicle.