This two-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of a four-lane undivided roadway and a two-lane parking lot entry/exit. For eastbound traffic there is two travel lanes. For northbound traffic there is one travel lane. Both roads were dry, traveled, asphalt. The posted speed limit is 56 kph (35 mph). Traffic was light at the time of the accident. This crash occurred during daylight hours with clear skies.

Vehicle one, a 2005 Chevrolet Malibu, was northbound attempting to left turn onto the westbound roadway. Vehicle two, a 1992 Ford Explorer, was eastbound in the first travel lane. Vehicle one entered the intersection and the front of vehicle one impacted the right of vehicle two. Vehicle one rotated slightly counterclockwise and came to rest facing north in the intersection. Vehicle two was redirected to the left and came to rest facing east, east of the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a thirty-nine year old female was heading to work from work at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about ten minutes at the time of the crash. This drive stated that she had been stopped for more than ten seconds waiting for traffic to clear. The driver of vehicle one looked but did not see vehicle two prior to impact. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a monthly basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a nineteen-year-old female was heading to lunch from home at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about twenty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that she applied the brakes prior to impact. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as "leaving driveway, turning left". The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to vehicle one and was coded as "driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (looked but did not see)." The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "other vehicle encroachment: from driveway, turning into opposite direction." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "not coded to this vehicle."