This two-vehicle crash occurred at a bituminous roadway intersection during dry daylight conditions. The East/West road on both legs of the intersection is comprised of a one-way eastbound road controlled by a stop sign, with a speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph) and no noted deficiencies. The south leg of the roadway is divided without a positive barrier, and is comprised of two lanes in each direction and an additional left turn lane. The north leg of the roadway is divided without a positive barrier, and is comprised of two lanes in each direction. The speed limit for the north/south roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph), and there are no noted deficiencies. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one, a 2005 Chevrolet Cavalier was eastbound through the intersection when, with its front, struck the left side of vehicle two. Vehicle two, a 2003 Toyota Camry was northbound in the first lane when it was struck by vehicle two. This first event caused vehicle one to run into a bush and a pole located off the road on the northeast corner of the intersection and then came to a final rest. Vehicle two spun out and came to a final rest on the road facing southwest. Both vehicles were towed, but vehicle two was still driveable. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a fifty-two year old male was not interviewed. Per medical records this driver is taking insulin for a medical condition.

The driver of vehicle two, an unknown driver, was not interviewed.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one is coded as: this vehicle traveling; crossing over [passing through] intersection. The critical reason for critical pre-crash event for vehicle one is coded as a driver related error: type of driver error unknown.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two is coded as: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two is coded as: not coded to this vehicle.