This multi-event single vehicle crash occurred along a stretch of a non-divided rural two-way, two-lane roadway. The roadway pertinent to the events is straight with no slope and a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The surface is bituminous and the road was dry. This crash occurred during daylight on an overcast morning with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1991 Ford Taurus with one occupant, was traveling south in lane one with the intention of going straight. V1 departed the roadway to the right, sideswiping a mailbox assembly causing light damage, then returned to roadway. The vehicle continued south for approximately 0.97-kilometers (0.6-mile) before departing to the right again, down a -16% grade slope, through a three-string barbed wire fence causing light damage, and into a field. The vehicle continued on a southwest course through the field for 161.9 meters (531 feet), bottoming out and causing moderate undercarriage damage before coming to final rest facing southwest. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of vehicle one, a 51-year-old diabetic male was commuting to work. The driver was lethargic and confused during interview. He had left home about an hour before the first collision. He had checked his blood sugar before he left, and it was within normal range at 120. He had not eaten anything since the previous evening. He indicated that his last conscious memory of driving occurred approximately 3-kilometers (2-miles) before the first event. The driver had never been on this road before, and had no idea how he got there, due to a blackout state brought on by a diabetic reaction. EMS administered an IV at the scene, but driver was not transported. Historically, driver has had problems controlling his diabetes as evidenced by previous paramedic call to his home four months prior to crash. The driver's only medication is Humalin-N insulin administered by injection as needed. A witness who was following the driver observed him drive through a red light at a previous intersection, weaving off and on the right shoulder, and then mix acceleration with letting off the gas prior to the road departure into the field.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 is coded as: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason for the critical event is coded as a driver critical non-performance error: Heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act. This was coded due to the diabetic reaction that impaired his ability to control V1.