This crash occurred in the early afternoon of a weekday off the end plane of a rural T-intersection. The intersection was composed of two-way, two-lane east/west bituminous roadway intersected by a two-way two-lane north/south roadway that ended at the intersection and was controlled by a stop sign. Both roadways were dry, straight, and level. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of this crash.

V1, a 1994 Ford Explorer, was northbound stopped at the stop sign preparing to turn left onto the intersecting roadway. As V1 commenced it turn it suddenly reversed directions and attempted to turn right. The vehicle was unable to complete the turn and drove the edge of the roadway where it struck a road sign and upright railroad tie before coming to final rest in a wooded area on the side of the road. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

V1 was driven by a 22 year-old female who was accompanied by her 32 year-old paraplegic boyfriend in the passenger seat. The driver stated that she had been driving this vehicle for only a few days; it was borrowed from her grandmother. They were traveling back to the passenger's apartment to meet some other friends to help him move. The passenger stated that he was trying to tell the driver to turn right at the intersection, but she was arguing that they needed to go left. They found themselves traveling off the roadway and into the wooded area. The driver stated she had not slept for 26 hours and in addition to her prescribed depression medication she had taken six muscle relaxants in the past few hours.

The Critical Precrash Event for this vehicle was coded this vehicle traveling, end departure. The Critical Reason for this vehicle was a driver related factor, a recognition error, an internal distraction. This was coded because the driver was arguing with the passenger and not paying attention to the driving task. Associated factors for this crash include driver fatigue due to the driver's lack of sleep and her use of medications. Inexperience could have also played a role in this crash as the driver was unfamiliar with the vehicle and it was her first time driving this road.