This five-vehicle intersection type collision occurred at the intersection of two city streets during late daylight hours. Both roads are paved with bituminous asphalt. The north/south roadway is one-way with three lanes of travel with parallel parking on both sides of the street. There is a bus stop north of the intersection. Before the intersection the southbound traffic has an uphill grade of 7%, but the intersection is level in all directions. The east/west roadway is a one-way, two-lane undivided roadway that is straight and level. Parking is also allowed on both sides of the road. The speed limit is 48 kmph (30 mph) for both roads. At the time of the crash the sky was cloudy and there were no adverse conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1991 Buick Century sedan with a driver and a passenger, was headed west toward the intersection in lane one with the intention of making a left turn. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Honda Civic sedan with a driver and passenger, was headed south in lane three with the intention of going straight. Vehicle three (V3), a not-in-transport 2002 Toyota Echo sedan, vehicle four (V4) a not-in-transport 1999 Jeep Cherokee SUV, and vehicle five (V5), a not-in-transport 2006 Mazda MX-5 were all legally parked along the east curb south of the intersection facing south. V1 and V2 entered the intersection where the front of V1 struck the left side of V2 at the back passenger door. V1 was deflected to the left and stopped adjacent to the impact point. V2 was redirected in a southeasterly direction where the front of V2 struck the left side of V3. V3 moved forward and to the east where the left side of V3 struck a sign. When V3 moved forward, the front of the vehicle struck the rear of V4 which moved forward and struck the back of V5. V1, V2, and V3 were all towed due to damage; V4 and V5 were driven from the scene. None of the four occupants of V1 or V2 were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 21 year-old male who refused interview after several attempts. The driver ran the red light at the intersection. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: illegal maneuver.

The driver of V2 was a 30-year old male. He stated that he was crossing the intersection with a green light and saw V1 running the red light. He also stated that he accelerated to try and avoid the collision but was unable to avoid it. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning in same direction. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

Case Note: Due to NMVCCS coding conventions V4 and V5 were not structured into the case or included in the crash events. Both vehicles were not-in-transport legally parked vehicles, and were not impacted by either of the in-transport vehicles (V1 & V2).