A three-vehicle crash occurred in the afternoon hours on a Wednesday. The location was an urban freeway with a divided roadway and on/off-ramps. There was on going construction with temporary lane changes. All northbound lanes were affected due to lane shifts and temporary jersey barriers. The roadway was a bituminous four lane with jersey barriers on both roadsides. The road shifted to the right one lane just prior to the location where the crash occurred. It was daylight, the weather was cloudy and the road was dry. The posted speed limit for all three vehicles was 97 kmph (60 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Volkswagen Jetta four door sedan, was traveling northbound in lane three. Traffic ahead started slowing for the construction area. The driver of V1 took his eyes off the road to check the lane to his right to determine if it was safe to change lanes. When he looked back forward traffic ahead was braking. The driver locked his brakes and tried to steer right, but struck the rear of vehicle two. V1 rotated counterclockwise after impact and than was struck in the right side by the back vehicle two near final rest. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Volkswagen Jetta four door sedan, was traveling northbound in lane three. V2 slowed for traffic ahead and was struck in the rear by the front of V1. On impact V2 rotated counter-clockwise in lane four. V2 was struck in the left side by vehicle three. After the impact with vehicle three it rotated back clockwise. V2's front left corner end-swiped with the Jersey barrier and it continued to rotate clockwise before and its back plane impacted with the right plane of V1. V2 then came to final rest in the trafficway near the last impact. V2 was towed due to damage.

Vehicle three (V3), a 1998 Jaguar XJ8 four-door sedan, was traveling northbound in lane four (the HOV lane). The driver of V3 stated he observed V1 approaching rapidly in lane three. He saw V1 brake and attempt to go between the car in front of him and the car in his right lane; however, V1 stuck the back of V2. On impact V2 rotated into his lane. He stated he applied his brakes and steered left over against the Jersey barrier, but struck the left side of V2. After this impact with V2 his vehicle struck the Jersey barrier with the left front corner and came to rest a short distance later. V3 was towed due to damage.

The driver of V1, a 21 year-old male, was wearing a lap and shoulder belt and the driver airbag deployed during the impact. He had a minor injury to his right arm and treated at the scene. He was well rested and had been off work all week. He in good health and the only medication he takes is for allergies. He was familiar with the vehicle and the roadway, but took his eyes off the traffic ahead for a moment to check the lane to his right and when he looked back cars were braking and slowing. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: Other motor vehicle in lane/ traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical pre-crash reason was coded as a driver recognition factor: Inadequate Surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see). The driver of V1 took his eyes off the road by checking the lane to his right and failed to look far enough ahead to observe what the forward vehicles were doing. This action by the driver made the situation critical. Comments by the driver of V3's observations of the crash indicate that associated factors for V1 include a misjudgment of gap and speed of V2. The driver of V1 also did not realize he was following too closely because he was looking to his right indicating he made a false assumption that V2 would continue to proceed.

The driver of V2, a 64 year-old male, was wearing a lap and shoulder belt and was treated for minor injuries at the scene. This driver was not interviewed. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: Other motor vehicle in lane/ traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not assigned to V2.

The driver of V3, a 27 year-old male, was wearing a lap and shoulder belt and the driver airbag deployed on impact. He was not injured. The passenger, a 29 year-old female was in the right front seat, was wearing a lap and shoulder belt and was not injured. The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded: Other/ not involved in the first harmful event.