This single vehicle crash occurred mid-afternoon on a clear day. The crash occurred on a four-lane, median divided, straight, level, dry, bituminous, interstate roadway with no positive barrier. This roadway supports east to west traffic with two lanes designated for eastbound traffic and two lanes designated for westbound traffic. This roadway has rumble strips on both sides and paved shoulders on both sides. The posted speed limit for this roadway was 113 kmph (70 mph). There were no traffic control signals present at the location of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Chevrolet SSR pick-up truck was traveling eastbound in lane two. V1 departed the left side of the roadway in an attempt to avoid a non-contact vehicle that merged into its lane. V1 then re-entered the roadway and crossed lanes one and two. V1 then departed the roadway to the right while rotating in a clockwise yaw. The left side of V1 struck a small tree. Post-impact, V1 traveled 6 meters (20 feet) and the left side of V1 impacted with another tree. V1 came to rest facing north off of the roadway to the right. The driver of V1 was not injured in the crash and V1 was towed due to disabling damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 121 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1 was a retired 63-year-old male. The driver advised that he was traveling in lane two with his cruise control set on 121 kmph (75 mph). This speed was 8 kmph (5 mph) above the posted speed limit. A non-contact vehicle attempted to pass him on the right and then merged into his lane. The driver stated that he attempted to avoid this vehicle by steering off of the road to the left. He advised that when he steered right to re-enter the roadway that he lost control of his vehicle and crossed lanes one and two, then departed the roadway to the right and spun around and contacted several trees. He also advised that the vehicle was equipped with traction control and the traction control was activated at the time of the crash. V1's driver stated that he was well rested at the time of the crash and was traveling from a Casino to visit his daughter. He advised that he rarely travels on this roadway and drives the vehicle occasionally. An associative factor for the control loss of V1 was the under-inflation from recommended tire pressure of all four tires on the vehicle. The vehicle was not equipped with a tire pressure monitoring system. The recommended front & rear tire pressure is 210 kPa (30 Psi). The measured tire pressures after the collision:

Left Front Tire = 110 kPa (16 Psi)

Left Rear Tire = 165 kPa (24 Psi)

Right Rear Tire = 159 kPa (23 Psi)

Right Front Tire = 97 kPa (14 Psi).

The critical event for this crash was coded as: other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane, over right lane line. The critical reason for this crash was coded as driver related error, overcompensation. The speed of the vehicle and underinflated tires were considered associative factors.