This single vehicle rollover collision occurred on a two-lane, non-divided country roadway that runs north/south. This roadway is asphalt constructed with curves and grades and no emergency shoulders. The posted speed is 89 kmph (35 mph) with a left hand curve with a radius of 937 meters (3,074 feet) prior to the crash area. This crash occurred during daylight early afternoon hours with no adverse weather conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Chrysler Town and Country minivan was southbound when the roadway changed from straight to a left hand curve. As V1 entered the curve it gently drifted right off the road edge. The driver steered V1 left back onto the roadway and began to cross into the on-coming traffic lane. The driver steered hard right and this caused V1 to begin to rotate clockwise. V1 then steered right and off the road edge where the driver steered hard left and V1 re-entered the roadway rotating counterclockwise. V1 skidded sideways across the southbound lane, then tripped and rolled right four quarter turns coming to rest on its wheels heading in a north/easterly direction. During this roll V1 impacted a dirt embankment with its left side that caused damage. V1 was towed for damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1.

The 54 year-old female driver of V1 was seriously injured and in use of the lap and shoulder belt. After the collision there were non-deployed airbags and non-deployed side curtains in the vehicle. The driver was air-evacuated to a major trauma center and hospitalized for various broken bones, lacerations and a severe head injury. The driver had been in ICU for nearly one month after the collision so information about her was obtained from the husband and medical records. He stated that she is familiar with the roadway and drives it a couple of times a week. She is a good, safe driver and always uses the seat belt. Per the husband's statement in medical records, she was considered disabled to do work, but able to work in the garden & do household chores. According to the driver's husband, she had left home to go to a beauty salon about 19 minutes before the reported time of the crash. She was scheduled to be at the appointment in the neighboring town about 11 minutes after the collision. The driver was retired and had no recent arguments or family problems, and 8 hours of sleep the previous night. The husband indicated that there was a hand-held "flip-type" of cell phone in the vehicle, but he did not know if it was in use prior to the crash.

Per the medical records, the driver of V1 had a past history of: rheumatoid arthritis with about 40 operations for multiple joint replacements in fingers, the left wrist & bilateral ankle fusions; lumbar fusions; high blood pressure; a thyroid condition; and, reactive airways disease. Medications listed in the medical records include: prednisone, Neurontin, Oxycontin, Hydrochlorthiazide, Albuterol inhaler, Inflixamab (Remicade); Soma; Thyroxine; Prilosec; Xanax; Lorazepam; Lipitor; and, Cymbalta.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was: this vehicle traveling, off road edge on the right side. Due to lack of further information it could not be determined if the driver was distracted internally or externally, had an on-going critical non-performance error due to medical related issues; or exhibited a driver performance error. There were no indications of precrash vehicle related problems or environmental factors. After the initial road departure, the driver did exhibit poor directional control of the vehicle. Since it is unknown why the driver initially departed the right side of the road the critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded as: type driver error unknown.