The crash occurred in a four-way intersection where two urban roadways crossed paths. One roadway allowed for north or southbound travel, and the other roadway allowed for east or westbound travel. Both two-lane roadways had one travel lane for each direction, and there was a left hand turn lane on all four legs of the intersection. A building located along the southwest corner limited the view for traffic entering the intersection from the south or east. The north/south roadway had a posted speed limit of 42 kmph (25 mph), and the east/west roadway had a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). The bituminous roadways were straight, and each had a slight uphill grade of .27 percent. The crash occurred on a dark holiday evening. The roadways were wet, as it had been snowing lightly prior to the crash. The intersection was controlled by standard traffic lights located on all four corners. All traffic lights were out at the time of the crash. Traffic was relatively light.

V1, a 1995 Cadillac Deville four door with two occupants, was traveling east in lane one, up the hill and approaching the intersection. V2, a 1997 Buick Century four door with three occupants, was traveling south, and up the hill in lane one as it approached the intersection. Having noticed that all of the traffic lights were out, V1 stopped at the intersection. V2 did not stop prior to proceeding through the intersection. As V2 was passing through the intersection from the north, V1 accelerated into the intersection from the west and, with its front, struck the right side, center and rear area of V2. Upon impact, V1 rotated approximately 70 degrees, and slid in a northwesterly direction into the opposing travel lane, where it came to its final rest sitting in the intersection. V2, after impact, also slid in a northwesterly direction through the intersection and into the southbound travel lane. V2 had rotated approximately 100 degrees in a clockwise motion and came to its final rest facing north with its left tires sitting on the north sidewalk of the northwest curb of the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Cadillac Deville, was driven by a 68-year old female and carrying one passenger, a ten-year old. She advised that she had been driving this roadway, and through this intersection, for decades. She stated that as she approached the intersection on this particular night, she noticed that all traffic lights for all directions were out. She advised that she stopped "for at least twenty seconds", stating that passing through this intersection without any traffic lights functioning made her feel nervous. She further advised that she checked for traffic to her left and then to her right, and then proceeded into the intersection. She said that she didn't see V2, and that V2 "was flying". (at a high rate of speed in the driver's opinion) V1 driver did not have a chance to do anything other than to apply her foot brakes at the time of impact. Driver also advised that her vision was fine, that she had not been engaged in any non-driving activities, and though she was on her way from one holiday party to another holiday party, she does not consume alcohol, and had not drank any alcoholic beverages on the night of the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver related factor - inadequate surveillance. (E.g. failed to look, or looked but did not see.) Associated factors coded to V1 were a view obstruction, traffic signals that were not functioning, a wet road surface, and being uncomfortable with the having to pass through the intersection without any traffic lights.

V2, the 1997 Buick Century, was driven by a 19-year old female who was carrying two passengers, a 25-year old and 6-year old. Attempts to contact V2 driver, including phone calls and a letter to the driver's home were unreturned, and it was concluded that V2 driver did not want to participate in the driver's survey. Regarding the details of the crash events for V2, very little is known. V2 driver reported to the police that her traffic light was green but according to V1 driver, all of the traffic lights were out. Upon researcher's arrival, V2's traffic lights were blinking red and V1's traffic lights were blinking yellow. A work crew of two individuals from the municipality had arrived immediately following the crash to fix the lights. According to one of the workers, the lights were all out when they arrived, and the first thing that they did was to make the north/south lights flash red and the east/west lights flash yellow.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to V2 included a view restriction, and wet road surface.