A daytime collision occurred around noon on a Friday. The collision occurred in the northbound lane, of a three lane, two-way, undivided highway. The pre-crash roadway is straight and level, with bituminous paving. Access to the roadway is not controlled. The posted speed limit for the roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1993 GMC K1500 Sierra, was initiating a left turn to enter the roadway from a private drive and travel southbound. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Kawasaki Ninja Motorcycle (MC), was traveling northbound in lane one at a high rate of speed. The front of V2 the MC impacted the left side of V1 just forward of the rear axle and including the area where the bed of the trucks meets the cab of the truck. The rear of V1 rotated counterclockwise and V1 came to rest facing southeast in the center turn lane. V2 the MC came to rest on its left side. The rider was thrown and landed on the sidewalk on the east side of the roadway. Both V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver, a 46-year-old male, and passenger of V1, a 44-year-old female, were not injured. The driver of V1 is reportedly in good health, with no sight or hearing restrictions. He was well rested, and not in a hurry. He was just picking his wife up from a job interview, and taking her home before heading back to work, he did not have a specific time that he needed to return to work. This was his first time on this roadway. He indicated that he was stopped in the driveway and waited for several vehicles to pass. He looked in both directions and did not see any vehicles coming and began his left turn. The next thing he observed was the helmet of the driver of V2 go by his window and then the impact occurred. He stated that he looked but never saw V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V2 was a 20-year-old male who was treated on-scene for head trauma, chest injuries, a compound leg fracture, and broken bones in his hand. He was transported to the local trauma center and tested negative for alcohol, but had positive results for opiates. The driver reported himself in good health, with no hearing or sight restrictions, and well rested. He had just left his place of employment that is a motorcycle shop, where he had stopped to visit prior to going for a ride. He had traveled approximately 2.5 blocks when he crashed into the side of the truck. The driver of the motorcycle stated he was traveling over 129 kmph (80 mph), as he was very familiar with the roadway, and it was a nice level straightaway, and that he had gotten too comfortable with the roadway. He noticed the pickup pull out onto the roadway when he hit both front & rear brakes. He said he was going to try and lay the bike down but didn't have enough time. The police report indicates witnesses observed the driver driving at a high rate of speed and popping wheelie's prior to the crash. Police calculations indicate V2's speed would have been 117 kmph (73 mph) at the beginning of skid marks that measured 49.7 meters (163 feet) prior to impact. The police report indicated that the skid mark began where the wheelie ended. A speed estimate for V2 at time of impact with V1 was 74 kmph, or 46 mph. Because of this aggressive driving, the driver placed himself and other motorists at risk.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from driveway, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical event assigned to this driver is a driver related decision factor: aggressive driving. He was also traveling too fast to be able to respond to unexpected action of others, and exhibited poor directional control of his vehicle. Due to his illegal speeding he was approaching the intersection at a speed the driver of V1 would not reasonably expect a vehicle to be traveling.