A three-vehicle collision occurred in the westbound lanes of an eight-lane freeway, divided by a concrete barrier. There were three through lanes in the westbound direction with an on-ramp merge lane in this interchange area. This was a straight, level, and bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 104 kmph (65 mph). It was late in the afternoon on a weekday. The road was wet, the sky was cloudy and it was raining. The traffic flow was heavy due to rush hour traffic.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Chevrolet Blazer two door with only the driver present, was traveling on a right curve on-ramp in an attempt to merge onto the freeway. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Toyota Camry four door with only the driver present, was traveling westbound in lane two of the three through lanes. Vehicle three (V3), a 2006 Subaru Baja four door with only the driver present was traveling westbound in the lane behind V2. V1 was traveling westbound up the on-ramp when it started to lose control and begin to rotate clockwise as it approached the through lanes. The driver in an attempt to correct the vehicle movement overcompensated, and in turn caused V1 to start to rotate counterclockwise. As V1 was rotating counterclockwise it entered the gore and crossed the two westbound lanes of through traffic. V2 contacted the back left side of V1 with its front left end, which caused V2 and V1 to side-slap. As both V1 and V2 were coming to rest V3 contacted V2 in the backend and continued on to contact V1 on the left side at the rear corner. V1 came to rest on all four tires facing southeast with its front end in lane three and its back end in lane two. V2 came to rest on all four tires facing northwest with its front end in lane one and its back end in lane two. And finally V3 came to rest on all four tires facing west in lane two. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

A 23-year-old male who reported no injuries drove V1, the Chevrolet Blazer. Not very much information is known about this driver due to him not wanting to speak with the researcher. He was reported as traveling 64 kmph (40 mph) before the crash. This vehicle was towed due to moderate left side damage. The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "This vehicle loss of control due to, Traveling too fast for conditions." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was driver related decision error of Too fast for curve. Additional associated factors coded to this driver overcompensation, poor weather and wet road conditions, traveling too fast for the curve, and lack of speed reduction warning signs on the ramp (e.g., no advisory speeds posted for ramp), and all tires on the vehicle were underinflated & had minimal tread depth.

A 74-year old female who was taken to a medical facility for precautionary reasons drove V2, the Toyota Camry. She stated that she was on her way to the bank from a friend's house when she saw V1 lose control and hit her. She stated she is retired and got eight hours of sleep the night before, which is her normal sleep. She has sleep apnea and uses a CPAP machine. She stated that she has had recent heart surgery and takes a list of medications, which include; Aspirin, Verapamil, Metformin, and Aceacal. This vehicle was towed due to moderate front and left side damage. The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment, from entrance to limited access highway." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factor coded to this driver is wet road and poor weather conditions.

A 66-year old male who reported no injuries drove V3, the Subaru Baja. He stated that he was on his way home from work when he saw V1 enter the roadway in the opposite direction from the rest of the traffic. He stated he works approximately seven hours a day for a total of thirty-five hours a week. He got seven and a half hours of sleep the night before and has no physical problems, but takes and Aspirin and Ibuprofen once a day. This vehicle was driven from the scene. The Critical Precrash Event for V3 was "not involved in first harmful event." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was also not coded to this driver. Associated factors coded to this driver include wet road and poor weather conditions.