This two-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of an east/west alleyway and a two-lane two-way roadway. The roadway is bituminous and was dry at the time of the crash. Legal parking is allowed on both sides of the roadway at the curb. All the roadways involved are straight and level. The speed limit on both roadways is 24 kmph (15 mph).

Vehicle one, a 2005 Pontiac G-6 was southbound on the roadway. Vehicle two, a 1998 Ford Escort was northbound on the roadway approaching the intersection with the alleyway. The driver of vehicle one turned right onto the alleyway and began to back into the street. The front of vehicle two impacted the left of vehicle one. Both vehicles came to rest near the point of impact. Vehicle one was not towed. Vehicle two was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a fifty-five year old female was driving to pick up a friend to go to her mother in laws wake. This driver had been driving for about ten minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that as she was driving she passed her friends apartment and was turning around. This driver was conversing with the passenger, her son about the upcoming wake. This driver stated as she was backing she was going slowly because of the parked vehicles. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road several times a month.

The driver of vehicle two, twenty-eight year old female stated that she saw the other vehicle and honked her horn but vehicle one kept coming. This driver did not provide a full interview and very little pre-crash information is known. This driver did say that the parked vehicles blocked her view.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to vehicle one and was coded as an enviornmental related factor: view obstructed by other (legally parked) vehicles. The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into same direction. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was not coded to this vehicle.