A single-vehicle run off roadway collision occurred a couple hours after noon on a Friday. The collision occurred on a busy interstate highway, in the westbound lanes. The roadway is a six-lane divided roadway. The pre-crash roadway is a downhill grade with a slight curve to the left, with concrete paving. It was raining heavily, and the roadway had standing water. The posted speed limit for the roadway is 112 kmph (70 mph). Access to the roadway is controlled.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Honda Civic 2 door coupe was headed west in lane 2. As V1 approached other vehicles the driver noticed they were hitting their brakes, and he steered to the left and hit the brakes, the vehicle hydroplaned, and began rotating counter-clockwise, and departed the roadway via the left shoulder. As it entered the ditch the right plane struck the ditch before the vehicle rolled over an unknown number of times. The rollover was interrupted by some trees in a wooded area which deflected the vehicle back towards the roadway.The vehicle came to rest on the wheels, facing northeast off adjacent to left shoulder. The vehicle was towed due to damage. The driver was ejected but not transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1 was a 21 year-old male who is reportedly in good health, with no hearing restrictions. He does wear contacts, and was wearing them at the time of the collision. He also has a previous head injury from a different auto accident, which does not affect his driving ability. Medication consists of Effexor XR and Trazodone. He is familiar with the roadway, and the vehicle as he drives both daily. He stated that he saw brake lights, and made a successful avoidance of the other vehicles, and when he realized he was hydroplaning out of control, he let go of the wheel, and asked the lord to save him. He had just left his home and driven about 5 miles, and he was running a little short on time getting to his doctor appointment. He had a bad feeling in his stomach that day, as if his body was telling him something bad was going to happen.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason for the critical event assigned to this driver is: too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others. The driver was running late for a doctor's appointment, it was raining hard and there was water on the roadway. The driver could not respond appropriately when the vehicles in front of V1 braked for an unknown reason. The driver braked and steered left and lost control.