This two-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of a north-south, three-lane divided bituminous road and an east-west 2-lane concrete road. The intersection is controlled with a stop sign for the east-west traffic only. The east-west road has a speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph) and a +13% grade leading up to the intersection. The north-south bound roadway has a -5% grade pre-crash and a speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). Area of impact is level, and all roads are straight. This crash occurred during daylight on a cloudy Sunday in the early evening hours with an earlier rainstorm leaving the road surface wet.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Honda Accord with three occupants, was northbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 Honda Civic, with two occupants was traveling west with the intention of turning left at the intersection. Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the front of V1 struck the left front of V2. At impact V2 rotated counter clockwise as it moved in a northwesterly direction coming to rest facing south in the intersection. V1 rotated counter clockwise and came to rest in the intersection facing southwest. . Both vehicles were towed due to damage, and the driver of V2 was transported due to injury. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 66-year-old female, whose only medication is vitamins, was familiar with the roadway. She was conversing with her son & granddaughter about the county fair as they were returning to her residence. Approaching the intersection, she had seen V2 stopped, and then start to pull out in front of them. The passenger yelled, and the driver hit the brakes. The wet road increased the stopping distance and the front of V1 impacted with the left side of V2

The critical pre-crash event coded to V1 is: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

A 23-year-old male driver and an 8-month-old child occupied V2. The infant was in a rear facing child restraint in the center of the back seat. The driver was running errands, familiar with the road and not medicated. He remembered stopping and not seeing anyone coming, so he began to execute his left turn. He did not recall impact or events immediately afterward. This driver was not restrained, and sustained a concussive head injury from impact with the windshield.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 is: this vehicle traveling; turning left at Intersection. The critical reason is coded as a driver related recognition factor: inadequate surveillance (failed to look, looked but did not see).