This three-vehicle crash occurred during the noon rush hour at a traffic signal-controlled intersection. This area was under construction and the original eastbound lanes were closed and clearly marked with a fence, signs and traffic cones. The east/west roadway was straight and level and consisted of two westbound lanes and one eastbound lane. The speed limit for westbound traffic was 40 kmph (25 mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Toyota Sienna, was westbound in lane one. V2, a 1997 Honda Accord, was stopped for a red traffic signal in the westbound lane one. V3, a 1995 Lincoln Town Car, was stopped in front of V2. The driver of V1 attempted to brake but inadvertently pushed on the gas pedal. The front of V1 struck the back of V2. V2 was pushed forward and the front struck the back of V3. All three vehicles came to rest near the impact facing west. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 driver, a forty-seven-year-old male, was traveling with a forty-four-year-old female and an eighty-five-year-old female from a shopping mall to his brother's residence. He was well rested and comfortable with his route, vehicle and passengers. This driver is a professional truck driver and was listening to music as he was driving. Due to the sun glare, he leaned to the right and reached for his sunglasses that were located in the right front seat pouch. This driver then looked up and realized that the traffic ahead was stopped for the light. The driver of V1 attempted to brake but inadvertently pushed on the gas pedal.

V2 driver, a thirty-year-old male, was commuting from a work site to his home and was intending to stop at a gas station on the way. He was well rested and very familiar with his vehicle. This was the first time he had driven this route. This driver stated he was stopped for approximately three seconds prior to the impact.

V3 driver, a fifty-two-year-old male, was commuting from home to work. This driver was well rested and was comfortable with his vehicle and route. He takes Plavix and Lipitor for his high blood pressure and high cholesterol. This driver stated he was stopped at the red light, ahead of V2, for approximately one minute prior to the collision.

The pre-event movement for V1 was coded as "going straight." The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; other vehicle stopped." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; other performance error (erroneously pressed the gas pedal rather than the brakes)." The pre-event movement for V2 was coded as "going straight." The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "not coded to this vehicle." The pre-event movement for V3 was coded as "going straight." The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded as "other; not involved first harmful event." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded as "not coded to this vehicle." Other associated factors include: the construction zone, the heavy congestion and the sun glare.