This crash occurred on a two-lane rural roadway. The roadway had a downhill grade of 6 percent, and curved to the right. The roadway was bituminous with a posted speed of 40 kmph (25 mph). It was late evening on a weekend and the roadway was wet but it was not raining at the time of the crash.

V1 was a 2002 Chrysler Sebring convertible driven by a 17 year-old male. V1 was traveling eastbound in lane number one, when the driver noticed an "animal" on the right side of the roadway. The driver swerved to the left and the back tires began to lose traction on the wet roadway. He then steered back to the right, overcompensating for the traction loss. This caused the vehicle to begin to rotate in a clockwise motion. While the vehicle was rotating, the left rear tire lost pressure, as evidenced by the scratch marks on the roadway. The vehicle crossed the centerline of the roadway during its rotation and then went off of the roadway on the left side. As the vehicle crossed off of the roadway, the curb pulled the front bumper away from the vehicle. V1 then traveled back onto the roadway, crossed both lanes, and went back off of the roadway on the right side. When the vehicle went off of the roadway for the second time it contacted two trees that did damage to the back, left and top of the vehicle, and a telephone pole which did damage to the back and right of the vehicle, and also damaged the right rear wheel. V1 came to final rest between these trees and the pole. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "this vehicle control loss due to traveling too fast for conditions." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was "driver related factor, too fast for conditions - wet roads." The driver of V1 was traveling significantly over the posted speed limit. He told police that he was traveling at about 45 mph. The driver blamed the animal on the side of the road, which supposedly caused the driver to overreact in his steering inputs. However, had he not been traveling so fast there was a good probability that he would not have lost control of his vehicle. The driver had been driving for only a year and a half and had never had any driver education. Associated factors coded to the driver include traveling too fast for conditions, overcompensation, driver inexperience, and wet roads.