This two-vehicle crash occurred in a 4-way signal-controlled intersection with pedestrian crosswalks. The northbound roadway was one way with two traffic lanes with legal metered parking on both sides. The east/west roadway was two-way and undivided with one lane in each direction. The northbound approach was positive 3 percent uphill. The westbound approach was positive 2 percent uphill. The authorized speed limit for all directions was 56 kmph (35 mph). Conditions were daylight and dry with intermediate cloudy skies. The setting was late afternoon hours on a weekday.

Vehicle 1 was a 2006 Mazda 3 compact four-door sedan with two occupants traveling westbound in lane one. Vehicle two was a 2002 Dodge Intrepid four-door full-size sedan with one occupant traveling northbound in lane one. Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and collided at a right angle. The left front of V1 contacted the right front of V2. Both vehicles deflected after impact and came to rest side-by-side facing northwest. V2 came to final rest in-between northbound lane one and two; V1 came to final rest in northbound lane one. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 24-year-old female who reported no injuries. She was unemployed and in town visiting her sister for the weekend. She claimed that she was intending on going straight through the intersection when the crash occurred. She reported her travel speed at 48 kmph (30 mph). She was listening to her sister (her right front seat passenger) read a map and failed to see the signal light was red. When she realized the light was red, she saw V2 coming from the left and applied the brakes and steered right, but was unsuccessful in avoiding the collision. She claimed that the traffic light was abnormally high and that contributed to her not being able to see it. She also claimed the sun was behind the traffic light which also obstructed her vision. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling; passing through the intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was an internal distraction, due to the conversation with the passenger. The driver claimed that this was her first time in this city and the first time driving this roadway. She was helping her sister read a map of the area and talking with her sister when the crash occurred. The driver was upset at the time of the crash due to family pressure to relocate. She reportedly had nasal surgery two months ago. Other associated factors coded to this driver include inadequate surveillance for not looking at the traffic signal sooner and an illegal maneuver because she ran a red light.

V2 was driven by a 36-year-old female who was transported from the scene with possible injuries. She was on her way home from her second job when the crash occurred. She reported being in the right lane looking down, trying to dial her cell phone. When she looked up, V1 was in her path and they collided. She was unable to take any avoidance maneuvers and thinks she blacked out after the air bags deployed.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The driver was dialing her cell phone at the time of the crash; therefore, an internal distraction was coded as an associated factor. She also reported working 55 hours or more per week at two different jobs. She stated she is required to work extended work shifts. Work-related stress was also coded as an associated factor.