A two-vehicle mid-day T-bone type collision occurred within the four-leg intersection of a side street with an urban arterial road. Both roads are paved with concrete and consist of two lanes of two-way travel. Before and after the intersection, the side street has a downhill grade of -7%, but is level in the intersection. The speed limit is 48 Kmph (30 mph) for the arterial road, and 40 Kmph (25 mph) for the side street. At the time of the crash the sky was clear and there were no adverse conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Ford Freestar minivan with only a driver was stopped at the intersection facing west. Vehicle two (V2), a 1988 Honda Accord coupe with only a driver was headed north on the arterial road. This section of the arterial road was curved left leading up to the intersection. V1 entered the intersection from a stop at the same time as V2. The front of V2 impacted the left side of V1, and both vehicles were deflected towards the northwest corner of the intersection. V2 continued off the Northwest corner of the intersection where it came to rest. V1 's final rest is estimated to be somewhere on the roadway facing Northwest. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 31-year-old male who reported neck pain from the crash. He refused to be interviewed for the study, citing legal concerns. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event is coded to this driver as an unknown recognition error. It was clear from researcher observations of the manner of the driver that he did not have any mechanical or physical limitations, but failed to see V2 approaching. It was unclear if this was due to a lack of surveillance or distraction. The registered owner of vehicle was not the driver but a company. The vehicle was loaded with boxes of new containers of chewing tobacco, which this driver may have been delivering. The boxes were stacked from floor to ceiling inside the rear of the van and another large box was on the right front seat. For this crash the boxes did not obstruct the driver's view for the direction V2 was coming from, nor were they considered cargo because the weight was not enough to affect handling & stability of the vehicle. Based on the on-scene vehicle inspection the driver had been listening to the satellite radio installed in the vehicle.

The driver of V2 was a 17-year old female who had disabling injuries, a collapsed lung triggered by the crash. She stated that she was casually headed home after visiting her sister at work. She did not notice V1 at the intersection until the collision was imminent, and hit the gas instead of the brakes in a panic reaction. The driver of V2 is an inexperienced driver, and this was evident in the fact that she was not noting the location of vehicles entering or exiting from side streets. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment: from crossing street across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors for this driver are inexperience, choosing the inappropriate evasive maneuver, and failure to look far enough ahead.