This two-vehicle crash occurred at 0734 hours at a four-way intersection that is controlled by a traffic light on colors. There are two eastbound and three westbound lanes at the west side of the intersection. There is also a dedicated right turn and a left turn lane at the west side of the intersection. The lanes are separated by a raised median. There are three westbound and three eastbound lanes at the east side of the intersection with two left turn lanes. The east/west roadway is curved. These lanes are also separated by a raised median. The roadway approaching the intersection from the south is curved to the left. There is one through lane, one right turn lane and one left turn lane. There are two southbound lanes. The lanes are separated by a raised median. The roadway was dry, asphalt with a posted speed limit of 52 KMPH (35 MPH). It was an early morning, the traffic was moderate and the sky was clear.

V-1, a 2003 Jeep Liberty 4X4 driven by a 19 year-old male with 12 passengers was traveling northbound around the curve approaching the intersection on a red light. V-2, a 1999 Plymouth Caravan driven by a 60 year-old female with one passenger was traveling eastbound in the #2 lane approaching the intersection on a green light. V-1 entered the intersection on a red light and was intending to go straight through the intersection into the shopping mall parking lot. V-1 entered the intersection and was struck by front of V-2. The impact caused V-1 to rotate clockwise and travel in a northeasterly direction through the intersection. V-1 then tripped on it's wheel and rolled to it's right 2 quarter turns before coming to rest at the east side of the intersection on it's top in the #4 lane facing in a northwesterly direction. V-2 rotated counterclockwise and traveled to the east edge of the intersection before coming to rest near the raised median at the east side of the intersection facing in a northeasterly direction. Both vehicles were towed from the scene two passenger in V-1 were transported to a local medical facility. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

The critical pre crash event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling-crossing over (passing through intersection) . The critical reason coded driver related factor "aggressive driving behavior" . (The driver had failed to stop for several traffic control devices and was speeding prior to the crash, in an attempt to elude police). The critical pre crash event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment-from crossing street, across path . The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. (An associated factor for this driver could be that she was thinking about the trip she was going to take later on in the day).