This two-vehicle crash occurred during the late morning hours on a Sunday. The location was an urban freeway in an area with no off-ramps. The weather was clear and dry. The roadway was a five lane concrete freeway with paved shoulders on both side, no rumble strips and a HOV lane on the inside. There was a grass median without barriers on the inside and barrier on the outside edge of the roadway. The road was level with no sight restrictions. The posted speed limit was 97 kmph (60 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Hyundai Tiburon two door hatchback with four occupants, was traveling southbound in lane one. From witnesses following the vehicle and information from the investigating officer, the vehicle was racing with another sports car, was speeding with fast and frequent lane changes. Vehicle two (V2), a 1985 Ford F-250 4X2 Super cab pickup with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane two at approximately 97 kmph (60 mph). The driver observed V1 in his rear view mirror approaching at a high rate of speed. The driver of V1 stated he changed lanes to his left and a pickup truck in front of him slowed down, causing him to hit his brakes. He lost control of his vehicle and the front of V1 struck the left side of V2. On impact V1 spun clockwise out of control and came to rest on the inside shoulder of the roadway. On impact V2 rotated counter-clockwise in a yaw traveling across three lanes and coming to rest off the roadway in the median facing northwest. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. None of the occupants were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 19 year-old male. He stated he and his friends had spent the night in a motel. He had gotten 8 ½ hours sleep the night before and started driving approximately one half hour before the crash. He stated he was not in a hurry and was in good health with no medical problems. He did not admit to racing and did not know what his travel speed was prior to the crash. There were three passengers in the vehicle. All three were 19 years old, all wearing lap and shoulder belts and not injured.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on right side of travel lane. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: aggressive driving behavior. Evidence from witness's statements and the report by the investigating officer, the driver was racing another vehicle and was driving aggressively.

The driver of V2, a 52 year-old male, was alone in his vehicle. He was on his way to a friend's home and had been driving for just over one hour before the crash. He was not in a hurry and was familiar with the roadway. He was well rested, in good health with no medical problems and was familiar with the vehicle he was driving.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from adjacent lane (same direction)-over left lane line. A critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle.