This two-vehicle crash occurred on a weekday afternoon in a 4-way intersection of a north/south and an east/west roadway, both with a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). Both vehicles involved in this crash were traveling on the north/south roadway but in opposing directions. This north/south roadway had a total of five undivided travel lanes with two lanes for southbound travel, two lanes for northbound travel, and a left turn-only lane for both directions. The weather was cloudy; the asphalt surface was dry and free of defects, and this stretch of road was level and straight.

Vehicle 1 (V1), a 2003 Ford Focus driven by an 18-year old female, was traveling northbound in lane 1. During a complete on-scene interview, the driver stated that she was on her way back home after dropping her mother off at an appointment. This driver explained that she might have been traveling a little bit above the posted speed limit. As she approached the intersection she saw that Vehicle 2 (V2) attempted and almost completed a left turn in front of her. V2 was traveling southbound and was stopped in the intersection allowing northbound traffic to pass through the intersection. The light turned from green to yellow, and then to red. The driver of V1 stated that she did see V2 (a small school bus) sitting in the intersection, but she assumed that V2 would not make the turn in front of her. As V1 entered the intersection, the front of V1 made contact with the right rear side of V2. At final rest, V1 was sitting in the intersection with substantial and disabling damage to its front. All occupants of V1 were wearing their seat belts, and both the driver's side and passenger side front air bags deployed. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

V2, a 1994 Ford medium-size school bus driven by a 36-year-old female, had been waiting in the intersection to safely make a left turn onto the eastbound lanes of the east/west roadway. During an on-scene interview, the driver stated that she had been traveling this route five times a week for the last three months and felt very comfortable on this relatively new route. She explained that when she entered the intersection, the light was green for the north/southbound traffic. When the traffic light changed from green to yellow, she knew that she would have to clear the intersection and that this was not at all uncommon. This driver was licensed to carry passengers and also had passed a state certified test as well as had special training for this type of vehicle. The driver stated, "I saw my way clear and was making the turn and she must have been trying to beat the light" (verbatim). The driver also explained, "I didn't see any on-coming traffic so I made the left to clear the intersection and she was right there."

There was a very credible witness to this crash who had been traveling behind the school bus. He stated that the bus entered the intersection and was yielding to oncoming traffic. He reasoned that he would just wait for the next green light to make the very same left turn that V2 was attempting to make. He saw the light turn to red and then watched as V2 waited while two other vehicles ran the red light (heading northbound), and then the bus proceeded on with its turn. It was at this point that the witness saw V2 accelerating to run the red light. He also noticed that the driver of V1 was talking on a cell phone. He stated that V2 had almost completed its turn when V1 slammed into the right rear of V2. In this witness's opinion, he felt very strongly that there was absolutely nothing that V2 could have done to avoid being struck by V1 seeing that V2 had already cleared most of the intersection and that it was mostly the rear of the bus that was exposed to northbound traffic. The witness also stated that the driver of V1 remained on her hand-held cell phone as she exited her vehicle immediately following the impact.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was other motor vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason for Critical Pre-Crash Event was a false assumption of other road user's actions, a driver related factor. Though the driver only acknowledged that she may have been traveling too fast, associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include: running a red light, talking on a cell-phone while driving, driver inexperience, speeding, and aggressive driving.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was this vehicle turning left. The Critical Reason for Critical Pre-Crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to this driver include the driver having high blood pressure and a false assumption in that she assumed that because she was under the red light, all oncoming traffic would yield to her.

Emergency medical services were dispatched to the scene. One occupant of V2 was transported to a nearby emergency room for evaluation.