This four-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection in an interchange area. The northbound roadway is level, consists of three lanes and is curved to the right with a radius of curvature of 447 meters. The eastbound roadway is one-way, straight, level and consists of four through lanes. The speed limit on these roadways is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Nissan Altima, was northbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Toyota Corolla, was eastbound in lane one. Vehicle three (V3), a 1997 Toyota 4Runner, was eastbound in lane three and vehicle four (V4), a 1993 Ford Taurus, was eastbound in lane four. In the intersection, the front of V1 struck the right side of V2. V1 continued on and the left side was struck by V3 and then V4. V1 and V4 rotated and the left side of V1 struck the right side of V4. V1 and V3 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, an eighteen-year-old female, was traveling with her two-year-old son in the rear seat. They were on their way from their home to a relative's home. This driver was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. She travels this route weekly. This driver stated that her son was crying and she was talking to him and reaching back to comfort him. When she looked back to the roadway, the traffic signal was red and it was too late to stop.

The driver of V2, a forty-three-year-old male, was traveling with an eighteen-year-old male passenger, from his home to work. He was healthy, well rested and comfortable with his vehicle and passenger. This driver travels this route daily. He stated that he did not see V1 prior to the crash.

The driver of V3, a twenty-year-old female, was traveling with a twenty-year-old female passenger. They were traveling from home and were on their way out of town for a trip. This driver was healthy and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she was fatigued, but applied the brakes when she noticed the crash between V1 and V3.

The pre-event movement for V1 was coded as "negotiating a curve." The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; internal distraction."

The pre-event movement for V2 was coded as "going straight." The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."

The pre-event movement for V3 was coded as "going straight." The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded as "other; not involved first harmful event." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was "not coded to this vehicle."