This single vehicle crash occurred shortly after dusk on a clear evening. The crash occurred on a two-lane, downhill, undivided, unlit, bituminous roadway that curves to the right. This roadway runs east to west and has a posted speed limit of 40 kph (25 mph). The curve of this roadway has a radius of 348 meters and a super elevation 3% (-4cm/122cm). The roadway was dry and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions present at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one, a 2000 Nissan Sentra was traveling westbound in lane one. Vehicle one departed lane one to the left and then departed the left side of the roadway. Vehicle one then traveled through a private lawn for approximately 95 meters before the left side of the vehicle sideswiped so shrubbery and then the front of vehicle struck a guy wire of an electricity pole. Vehicle one came to rest off of the left side of the roadway facing west. Vehicle one was towed due to disabling damage. There were no injuries reported to the two occupants from the crash. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1.

The driver of vehicle one was a 29-year-old female. The driver of vehicle one advised that she lost control of her vehicle while negotiating the curve. She also said that she was traveling back from a weekend camping trip. She also stated that she had taken 0.5mg of Alprazolam prior to the crash and had consumed several alcoholic beverages throughout the day. The driver advised that she has a large cut on her hand and was under a doctor's care for an unspecified psychological disorder. She also stated that at the time of the crash she was arguing with the passenger of her vehicle. The driver was also under a considerable amount of stress resulting from her learning a new position.

The driver was arrested for driving under the influence and the police reported her BAC as 0.14. The breathalyzer test was administered approximately 45 minutes after the crash.

The critical event of this crash was coded as this vehicle traveling off the edge of the roadway on the left side. The critical reason for this crash was coded internal distraction (driver arguing with the passenger). Poor directional control was also coded for the driver's inability to control the vehicle. There were several contributing factors that were taken into consideration in coding this case. The driver's medication and alcohol use, the driver's psychological condition and the driver's stress level.