This crash occurred in the afternoon rush hour of a weekday at an intersection of an undivided five-lane (with a center two-way left turn lane) urban roadway and the exit of a commercial driveway. The three eastbound lanes of the urban roadway were dry, straight, and level with a posted speed limit of 72kmph (45 mph). All three lanes contained stopped traffic that was backed up awaiting a traffic signal to changes colors at an intersection ahead. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 2003 Subaru Imprezza, was facing north exiting a commercial driveway intending to turn left. V2, a 2005 Scion (Toyota) XA, was eastbound traveling in the two-way left turn lane, which was not backed up from the stoplight. V3, a 1996 Mercury Sable, was stopped in lane three of the eastbound lanes ahead of the commercial drive that V1 was exiting. The stopped traffic had allowed room for V1 to travel through so as to turn left onto the roadway. As V1 proceeded across the eastbound lanes and into the left turn lane its front contacted the right side of V2. This impact caused V2 to roll left two quarter turns and skid east on it's top, while rotating counter-clockwise. While rotating on its roof, the front of V2 contacted the left side of V3. V2 came to rest facing northeast while still upside down. V1 and V3 came to final rest still in their initial directions near their respective points of impact. V2 was towed due to damage. The driver of v2 was injured and transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a belted 27 year-old male in good health who was wearing his prescription lenses that corrected a myopic (near-sighted) condition. The driver stated he had enough room to get through the traffic but could not see around all the vehicles. The driver was uninjured and V1 was driven from the scene.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for Critical Precrash Event was coded as a recognition error, inadequate surveillance (failed to look). The driver admitted that he looked left and a vehicle blocked his view, he looked right, then failed to look left again before proceeding. Associated factors coded to this vehicle include a decision error turning with obstructed view and a roadway related factor of rush hour traffic congestion.

V2 was driven by a belted 20 year-old female in good health who was on her way home after running an errand. She stated she never saw V1 enter her lane from the right and did not have a chance to take evasive action. The driver was transported with non-incapacitating injuries and V2 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded as other vehicle encroachment from driveway, turning into opposite direction. The Critical Reason for critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle. Some associated factors for this crash include the fact that the driver rarely drove this roadway as well as the traffic congestion and the impending problem was masked by the traffic flow.

V3 was driven by a belted 54 year-old female in good health despite a history of high cholesterol, which is treated with medication. She was wearing her prescription lenses that correct a myopic (near-sighted) condition. The driver of V3 stated that she was stopped in lane 3, heard the crash behind her and watched V3 skid into her. She was unable to take any avoidance actions.

The Critical Precrash Event for V3 was coded as other, not involved in first harmful event. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. One associated factor, which contributed to this vehicle's involvement in the crash, was the rush hour congestion.