This crash occurred during the late afternoon hours of a weekday in the intersection of a two-way, two-lane, undivided roadway and entrance to a parking lot. The bituminous east/west roadway was dry and level. The roadway also featured a slight curve to the right and had a posted speed limit of 45kmph (30 mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash as the weather was clear and the traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 1999 Chrysler Cirrus was eastbound on the roadway approaching the entrance to the parking lot where the vehicle intended to turn into. V2, a 1994 Mercury Grand Marquis was westbound on the same roadway intending on continuing straight. As V1 turned left its right front corner was struck by the front of V2. Both vehicles came to final rest in the entrance to the parking lot near the point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a belted 25 year-old male who was uninjured in the crash. He stated that he does not think he even looked to see if a car was coming. The driver also stated that he was unaware of V1 until he felt the impact. V1 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for V1 was coded as a driver related factor, inadequate surveillance (failed to look). There were no associated factors in addition to the inadequate surveillance coded to V1.

V2 was driven by belted 54 year-old female who was transported for treatment of non-incapacitating injuries sustained during the crash. The driver of V2 stated that she was coming from the hospital were she had been getting rehab treatment for a heart problem when she saw V1 turn in front of her. She stated she locked-up the brakes but could not avoid the collision. V2 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factor for V2 was a physical factor, a heart condition; however V2 was not thought to have contributed to the crash.