This two-vehicle crash occurred during the late evening in a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The roadway on the west side of the intersection is three lanes, straight, level and consists of a left turn lane and a right turn/through lane for eastbound traffic and a westbound through lane. The four lanes on the east side of the intersection are straight and consist of three westbound lanes (one for left turns, one for right turns and one for through traffic) and one eastbound lane. The traffic signal was solid green for east/west traffic. The posted speed limit on this roadway is 48 kph (30 mph). It was dark but the streetlights were lit and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one, a 1996 Ford Contour, was eastbound in lane two, intending to turn left at the intersection. Vehicle two, a 1994 Toyota pickup, was westbound, intending to go straight through the intersection. As vehicle one turned left, the front struck the front of vehicle two. Neither driver made any avoidance maneuvers. Both vehicles came to rest in the intersection and were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a sixteen-year-old female, was traveling with her eighteen-year-old boyfriend. They were traveling from a gas station to a restaurant and were talking and listening to the radio at the time of the crash. She had recently been "kicked out of mother's house" and admitted to experiencing work-related stress, so may have been preoccupied with these concerns. This driver stopped the interview in the middle, although she admitted that she did not see vehicle two prior to the collision. Her experience level is unknown, but the investigating officer cited “inexperience” as the most contributing factor.

The driver of vehicle two, a nineteen-year-old female, was traveling from a celebration at her parents' home to her own home. She was well rested and very comfortable with her route and her vehicle. She was listening to the radio at the time of the crash and did not realize that vehicle one was turning until it was too late to attempt to avoid a crash.

The pre-event movement for vehicle one was coded as "going straight." The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)." The pre-event movement for vehicle two was coded as "going straight." The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "not coded to this vehicle."