This three-car crash occurred in the northbound lanes. Prior to the crash site there are two northbound lanes and three southbound lanes separated by a two-way left turn lane. Through the location a northbound right turn line has been added. However because of road construction northbound lane one (the right turn lane) and lane three was blocked by traffic cones and inaccessible to vehicles. Northbound traffic was channeled into one traffic lane, lane one. The roadway is straight and level and of bituminous constructions. The posted speed limit is 64kmph (40mph). It was mid-morning on a weekday; the road was dry and the sky was clear. The traffic was congested due to construction funneling the traffic down into one lane. Warning signs alerted traffic of the road construction.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Dodge Caravan four door with three occupants, was traveling northbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Honda Civic two door with only the driver present, was stopped heading northbound in lane one in front of V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 2001 Chevrolet Geo Prizm four door with five occupants, was also stopped northbound in lane two in front of V2. V1, traveling northbound at approximately 48kmph (30mph), failed to stop for the traffic that was stopped in front of it. Thus V1 impacted the rear of V2 with its front. This in turn caused the front of V2 to impact the rear of V3. All vehicles pulled into the center left turn lane where they came to rest facing northbound. The occupants in V1 and V2 were not injured; the driver of V3 was transported. V1 was towed from the scene; the other two vehicles were towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.

V1, the Dodge Caravan, was driven by a 38-year old woman. She stated that she was on her way home from the dentist when she noticed the road construction. She then looked in front of her and saw that the cars had stopped. She tried to stop but could not in time. She stated that she got nine hours of sleep the night before and works approximately seven and a half hours a day. .

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver related factor- external distraction. Associated factors coded to this vehicle are inadequate surveillance, failed to look far enough ahead and exterior highway factor, work zone.

V2, the Honda Civic, was driven by a 19-year old woman. She stated she was coming from home on her way to work and when she stopped, she had just looked up into the rearview mirror when she was hit in the back by V1. She stated she got nine hours of sleep the night before and works approximately seven hours a day.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in the same direction with higher speed." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factor coded to this vehicle is the roadway related work zone.

V3, the Chevrolet Geo Prizm was driven by 28-year old woman. She stated that she was on her way home from picking up her work schedule when she saw in her driver side mirror that V1 was going to hit V2. She then said that after V2 hit her, she hit her head and doesn't remember very much after that. She stated that she got ten hours of sleep the night before and has not worked in the past seven days.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V3 was "other, not involved in first harmful event." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. This vehicle, however, has the work zone associated factor.