The crash occurred at a four-way intersection, controlled by a traffic light. The east/west roadway was under construction. The north/south roadway was a two-way, six-lane roadway, divided by a concrete curbed median. These were straight, level, asphalt roads, with a north/south posted speed of 56kmph (35 mph). Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 2003 Honda S2000 convertible with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane two. V2, a 1998 Ford Windstar minivan with one occupant, was stopped for a traffic light in lane two, ahead of V1. V3, a 1999 Ford Mustang convertible with one occupant, was stopped at the traffic light in lane two, ahead of V2. V4, a 2001 Volkswagen Jetta with one occupant, was stopped at the light in lane three, adjacent to V3. The driver of V1 did not stop in time to avoid a collision. The front of V1 made contact with the back of V2. The front right corner of V2 then made contact with the back left corner of V3 and the back right corner of V4. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 47-year-old male, who was transported with injuries. He stated that he was on his way to work, which was only about five minutes from his home. The driver indicated that as he crossed the bridge, he saw a green light ahead, and assumed that traffic would continue to proceed through the intersection. Based on this assumption, he did not reduce his speed. The driver was aware that on-scene witnesses saw him looking down, inside his vehicle just before the crash. However, the driver could not confirm any internal distractions. He indicated that by the time he realized traffic was not moving through the intersection, he was very close to the vehicle in front of him. At that point, the driver looked for an open lane to maneuver into, but could find none. Traffic to his left was backed up for the light, and a parked city vehicle occupied the turn lane to his right. The driver attempted to brake and steer to the right, but still hit V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a recognition error, internal distraction. The driver's focus was inside the vehicle before the crash. One associated factor was a false assumption. The driver assumed that traffic in front of him would continue to proceed. Another factor was that the driver's normal pattern of behavior while driving is to be in a hurry. Other associated factors for this driver include fatigue and unspecified work related stress.

V2, the 1998 Ford Windstar, was driven by a 52-year-old male, who was not transported. He indicated that he was the third vehicle back from the light. Everyone was at a full stop. The driver was unaware that a vehicle was approaching from behind. The driver felt the impact, his body shifted a little to the left, and then he was immediately thrown into the passenger's seat. Bystanders told the driver that they took notice of V1 because he showed no signs of slowing down. They informed him that the driver of V1 was not looking forward at traffic. Instead, they exclaimed, he was looking to his right, inside the car, as if he were looking for something on the driver's seat or floor.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associated factors coded to V2 and the driver was not thought to have contributed to the crash.

V3, the Ford Mustang, was driven by a 33-year old female, who was not transported. She could not be reached for interview. This driver was not involved in the first harmful event. No associated factors could be determined for this driver.

V4, the Volkswagen Jetta, was driven by a 50-year old male, who was not injured. No interview was required for the driver of this non-case vehicle. The driver was not involved in the first harmful event.