The crash occurred on a primary arterial road that ran east/west where it was intersected by an access road that ran north/south. The arterial had five lanes with lane one (of the west leg of the intersection) being an eastbound through lane as was lane two. Lane three was a left turn only lane to head north on the access road. Lanes four and five were westbound through lanes. The access road also had five lanes. Lane one was a southbound right (west) turn only lane, lane two was a through (south) and left turn lane, lane three was a left (east) turn only lane and these three lanes were divided from the two northbound lanes by a raised concrete median. The southbound lanes had a positive 3% grade that leveled off in the intersection with the primary arterial, and then began a positive grade again on the south side of the intersection. The primary arterial was level in the area of the crash. Both roadways were straight. The intersection was controlled by traffic lights with no pedestrian signal. The speed limit on the arterial was 72kph/45mph and on the access road was 48kph/30mph. Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight and dry on a weekday morning at the back end of rush hour.

V1 was a 2001 Buick LeSabre traveling east in lane one of the arterial road at about 44 mph (sourced from the EDR) when V2, a 2004 Toyota Camry that was in lane two on the southbound side of the access road proceeded across the intersection on a light that had just turned green. V1's brakes were applied about 4 seconds before algorithm enable (EDR again) slowing V1 down to approximately 28mph before it (V1) struck V2 on the right side after passing through a red light. V2 then rotated clockwise about 90 degrees before tripping and rolling one quarter turn to its left, then coming back down on all four wheels (a quarter turn right) and freewheel rolling backward into the grass on the southwest corner of the intersection. It came to rest facing the east with the front wheels on the pavement and the rear in the grass. V1 came to rest where V2 began its yaw facing southeast. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 64 year old belted female whose airbags did deploy and who was not injured in the crash (although she was shaken up pretty badly). She was on her way home from the store at the time of the crash and claimed not to remember actual crash events.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, passing through an intersection." The Critical Reason was coded as "inattention, thought focus unknown". The driver was on medication for high blood pressure. She was also coded as having failed to look far enough ahead. She failed to stop for the TCD, which was functioning correctly.

V2 was driven by a 74 year old belted female who was transported to a local hospital from the crash scene via EMS due to non-incapacitating injuries. No airbags in the Toyota deployed in this crash. The driver was on her way home from dropping her husband off at a physical therapy appointment.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment from a crossing street, across path". The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The driver was on medication at the time for a thyroid issue that she did not wish to discuss. She was coded as failing to look to either side ahead. She also falsely assumed that traffic to her right would be stopped for the traffic control device.