A two-vehicle collision occurred late afternoon around dusk on a Monday. The collision occurred on a two-lane, two-way section of an undivided rural highway. The pre-crash roadway is level and straight, with bituminous paving. Access to the roadway is controlled. The posted speed limit for the roadway is 89 kmph (55mph).

Vehicle 1 (V1), a 1996 Dodge Ram Pickup, was westbound in lane one. Vehicle 2 (V2) a 1994 Ford Taurus was traveling east in lane one. As V1 approached congestion the driver braked hard and steered to the left. The front of V1 impacted the front of V2. V1 was towed due to damage, and V2 was also towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 52-year-old male who was unable to be interviewed due to a language barrier. All information obtained for this driver was derived from the police report and medical records. According to the police report three occupants were in the front seat of the pickup truck including the driver, who is the owner of the vehicle. It is unknown if there was a conversation going on prior to the crash. There was a full load of new and used carpet in the bed of the pickup track, which had some affect on the handling and stability of the vehicle and increased its stopping distance. The police report indicates that as this driver approached congested traffic, he had difficulties recognizing it due to the bright sun. The driver then steered left & braked, crossed into oncoming traffic and impacted with V2 head-on. Medical records indicate the driver takes no medications & had no past medical history. Tests from the medical records had positive results for opiates and cocaine, and negative results for alcohol. The critical pre-crash event was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical event assigned to this driver was a decision factor: incorrect evasive action. This coding was chosen because when the driver realized too late that forward traffic was congested this driver steered left into on-coming traffic instead of steering right towards the shoulder. This inappropriate steering choice resulted in his vehicle crossing into on-coming traffic. Due to the sun glare the driver failed to recognize forward traffic was stopping and did not realize that caution was required. Because of this he also misjudged the gap distance and speed of the forward traffic and made a false assumption that the forward traffic would continue to proceed. He was traveling too fast for the congested forward traffic conditions.

The driver of V2 was a 38-year-old female whose pre-crash factors are partially known as she only participated in a partial interview prior to her family advising her not to talk to anyone, without her attorney's permission. She described the crash events as such: I was Eastbound on the highway. A truck (V1) came over into my lane. I hit my brakes and we crashed head-on. The driver mentioned that her fiancé was the right front passenger and that they were not conversing prior to the crash. Medical records indicate a prior history for hypertension, panic disorder, and recurrent sinus infections none of which were related to this crash occurrence. The medical records noted the following medications: Trazodone, Diazepam (valium), Paxil (paroxetine), and several other medications. On the date of the crash she tested positive for opiates and benzodiazepines. The critical pre-crash event was coded: other motor vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over the left lane line." The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle. The driver of V2 had no forward traffic congestion and the sun glare was not a factor for this driver since she was traveling away from the sunset.