This three vehicle crash occurred late afternoon during daylight hours in the westbound lanes of a two lane two way residential roadway. The bituminous roadway is straight, level, and dry at the time of the crash. Parking is allowed at the curb on both sides of the roadway. The crash occurred in the evening hours of a weekday, the weather was clear and traffic at the time was light. The posted speed limit is 48 KPH (30 MPH).

Vehicle one (V 1), a 1987 Cadillac Sedan De Ville driven by a 23 year-old female, was westbound in the first lane. Vehicle two (V 2), a 1988 Chevrolet 1500 pickup truck with a small trailer attached to it by a ball mount hitch, was legally parked at the curb facing west at the north edge of the roadway. Vehicle three (V 3), a 1996 Chevrolet 1500 pickup truck, was legally parked facing west in front of V 2. V 1, while traveling west a police car turned in front V 1 left the travel lane to the right and struck the rear of the trailer attached to V 2 with it's front end. The trailer broke free of it's attachment to V 2, spun around and a riding lawn mower on the trailer was dropped to the roadway. V 1 continued forward and struck the left side of V 2. V 1 then continued west and struck the left side of V 3, after which it began a counterclockwise rotation and came to final rest in the middle of the roadway facing northeast. V 2 and V 3 were at final rest in the parking lane at the curb. V 1 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

She advised that she was traveling approximately 64 KPH (40 MPH) westbound, and an oncoming police vehicle made a left turn in front of her. She stated that she looked to her right trying to determine if she knew the officer driving the vehicle. When she returned her eyes to the road she discovered that her vehicle had traveled to the right into the parking lane and had no time to try to avoid striking V 2 in the rear.

The pre-event movement for V 1 was coded going straight, category This vehicle traveling, over the lane line on right side of travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a Driver Related Factor: External Distraction.

.

An associated factor involved was a behavior factor, aggressive act, speeding. When questioned driver V 1 stated that she always drives this way.