This is a three-vehicle crash that occurred during the mid-afternoon hours in the eastbound lanes of a five-lane roadway and terminated in the westbound lanes. There were two eastbound and two westbound lanes with a common left turn lane. This was a straight, level,dry bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). The time was early afternoon, the road was dry and the sky was clear with no adverse conditions. Traffic flow was congested with stop-and-go activity.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Ford Focus four door, was driven by a 54 year-old female was traveling eastbound in the number two lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1980 Ford F-150 pickup truck, was driven by a 50 year-old male with one passenger was traveling eastbound in the number one. Vehicle three (V3), a 1996 Ford Taurus four door driven by a 23 year-old male, was stopped for traffic ahead of it in the number one westbound lane. There was a truck ahead of V1 and the driver of V1 attempted to change lanes into the number one lane, did not see V2 and struck the left side behind the cab with the right front of V1. V1 then crossed all travel lanes coming to rest facing north on the west side. The impact caused V2 to rotate counterclockwise and cross all lanes of traffic going perpendicular to the roadway. The driver of V2 applied the brakes and struck the left side on the left corner area of V3 The impact caused V3 to be pushed into the curb and damage was done to the right front wheel. V2 and V3 came to final rest at impact. They were towed from the scene. V1 drove from the scene under its own power. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the right side of the travel lane . The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). The driver stated she didn't see other vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane (same direction), over the left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event and the critical reason not coded to this vehicle.