This is a single-vehicle crash that occurred on a two-lane dirt road in a rural area. There is no posted speed limit for this road. The southbound road is slightly uphill and curves left at the pre-crash location. The crash occurred during daylight with no adverse weather or road conditions present.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Ford Explorer was southbound traveling at 16 kmph (10 mph) when the driver, a 60-year-old male, looked for his ringing cell phone. He took his eyes off of the road and the vehicle veered to the right onto the soft dirt. Below the edge of the roadway is a steep dirt and rock embankment that ends 30 meters (98-feet) down and across. He made a complete stop, became stabilized and engaged his four-wheel-drive system. He then attempted to back up out of the soft dirt shoulder but could not. He then began to tip over to the right. He rolled down the embankment 10 quarter turns and came to rest on its top at the bottom on the shoulder of a state highway. During the rollover, the front-end plane of V1 contacted a barbwire fence and a large tree. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1.

The driver of V1 was traveling to his residence after spending an hour at the top of the mountain from where this road leads. Due to stress from running his own business, he had spent the time meditating and praying and felt refreshed and peaceful when he started the short trip 0.4- kilometers (1/4 mile) from the top. He has driven on the roadway many times and stated his vehicle was in excellent condition. The driver is in good physical condition and takes the prescribed medication Lisinopril for high blood pressure.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded- this vehicle control loss due to: poor road conditions(specified as: narrow shoulders comprised of soft dirt adjacent to non-transversable slope). The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded as an environment related factor: road design- other (specified as: Narrow shoulders comprised of soft dirt adjacent to non-transversable slope). This coding was chosen over the cell phone distraction because the situation became critical as the driver had departed the roadway and was attempting to return to it when the vehicle subsequently rolled over down the embankment.