A two-vehicle daytime collision occurred heading south on a one-way two-lane city arterial. The road is paved with concrete and is straight and downhill (-7%) grade in the area of the crash. The speed limit for the road is 48 kmph (30 mph). At the time of the crash the sky was cloudy but the road was dry.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Toyota Corolla sedan with only a driver, was heading south in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Ford Crown Victoria sedan Taxi with only a driver, was headed south in lane two. V1 was ahead of V2 and reaching the intersection with a side street, V1 turned left from the right lane. The front corner of V2 struck the left side of V1, deflecting V1 clockwise. The left rear of V1 side-slapped with the right side of V2, and V1 rolled to the southwest corner of the intersection. Vehicle three (V3), a 1999 Honda Accord sedan); Vehicle four (V4), a 1999 Volkswagen GTI hatchback; and, Vehicle five (V5), a 2003 Oldsmobile Bravada SUV were legally parked facing south at the southwest corner. After the first two impacts with V1, the front of V1 impacted the rear of V3, pushing V3 into V4 and V4 into V5. V1 was towed due to disabling damage and V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 51-year-old female who reported no injuries from the crash. She stated that she probably had her turn signal on, but she didn't see the taxi approaching from behind. There was confusion when she was asked why she turned from the right hand lane, and she didn't have a response. This was only the second time the driver had driven on this roadway. She indicated that it was obviously wrong now, but she could not explain why she had turned from the right lane. It is possible that she was treating the road as a normal two-way roadway, having checked for approaching traffic from the front in lane two instead of the adjacent travel lane.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over lane line on left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical event is coded driver recognition factor: inadequate surveillance (for failure to check lane two). Associated factors for this driver were the illegal maneuver of turning from the wrong lane.

The driver of V2 was a 44-year-old male taxi driver. He refused to participate in the study. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane over right lane line.