This two-vehicle crash occurred a few hours before mid-night during dark hours in the middle of a 4-way, tri-color traffic signal controlled urban intersection. The northbound roadway consists of three lanes including a left turn lane before the intersection and two lanes after the intersection with an additional bicycle lane curbside. The southbound roadway consists of three lanes before the intersection including a left turn lane and two lanes after the intersection. The westbound roadway consists of four travel lanes including a left turn only and a right turn only before the intersection. The roadway also had a bicycle lane between lanes one and two. After the intersection the westbound roadway consists of two lanes and a bicycle lane curbside. The eastbound roadway shares the same makeup as the westbound lanes. Each roadway was divided by a raised concrete median. The roads were dark but illuminated by street-lights, surfaces are bituminous, straight and level, and were dry and without defects. The road had a posted speed limit of 48 kph (30 mph), was virtually free of traffic, the skies were clear and there were no sight restrictions.

Vehicle one (V 1), a 1994 Chevrolet Cavalier station wagon with two occupants, was northbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V 2), a 2002 Dodge Grand Caravan with one occupant was westbound in lane two stopped at a red traffic light. The V 2 driver, a 38 year old female, entered the intersection when the light turned green. The V 1 driver, a 4 1 year old male, entered the intersection on a red light and the front of V 2 struck the right rear passenger area of V 1. After impact with V 1, V 2 came to final rest near the point of impact with V 1. After impact with V 2, V 1 entered a clockwise rotation and continued northbound until tripping over the raised concrete median separating the northbound and southbound lanes and rolling left two quarter turns. V 1 came to rest on the roof on the median facing generally east. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Critical Pre-Event movement for V 1 coded as going straight, category This Vehicle Traveling - crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event a Driver Related factor - Illegal maneuver (disregard of traffic signal).

The Critical Pre-Event movement for V 2 coded as stopped in traffic lane, category Other Vehicle Encroachment - From crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event not coded to this vehicle.

Associative Factors: V 1 may have been speeding. The V 2 driver stated that she was fatigued and rarely drove on the road where the crash occurred; these may have played a role in her scanning for other traffic before entering the intersection.