This two-vehicle crash occurred at a "T" intersection. The east/west road consists of two through lanes in each direction with a continuous center turn lane. There is also a right turn lane for westbound traffic. There are no traffic controls for the east/west roadway. The north/south road consists of one lane in each direction with a stop sign for northbound traffic. On the north side of this intersection is a private drive consisting of one entrance and two exit lanes. Both roadways are straight, level and bituminous. The posted speed limit for both roadways is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours, the roads were dry and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Suzuki Sidekick 4x4 sport utility vehicle with two occupants was northbound in lane one at the stop sign. The driver's intention was to cross the six-lane roadway and enter the private driveway on the opposite side. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 two-door Mitsubishi Mirage with one occupant was westbound in the number three lane traveling at a police reported speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). The driver of V1 stated he looked to the right but did not see V2 approaching and entered the intersection. V2 applied her brakes but was unable to avoid striking the right side of V1 with her front. V1 rotated clockwise and came to rest in the westbound number one turn lane facing southeast. V2 rotated clockwise and came to rest in the number three lane facing northwest. V1 was driven from the scene. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, an eighty-one-year old male, had just left a business five minutes prior to the crash and was heading to a nearby area to go shopping. He was in good health. He was taking three different prescription medications and vitamins. He wears prescription glasses. He had slept nine hours the night before in his residence and claimed to be well rested. He drives this route daily. He had purchased the vehicle one week before but claimed he was very comfortable driving it. He stated that he was not talking to his passenger and was not distracted. He said that he looked to the right and did not see V2 coming. He did not attempt any evasive maneuvers. The driver was not injured. The passenger had a possible injury but was not transported.

The driver of V2, a twenty-year-old female, had just left work and was going home. She had been driving for about ten minutes at the time of the crash. She was in good general health, had not taken any prescription medications, did not wear glasses and had slept seven and one half hours the night before. She travels this route daily and is very comfortable with her vehicle. She stated she saw V2 coming from the stop sign and cross in front of her. This driver was not injured and not transported.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling; Crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a Driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see). The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.