This crash occurred in the evening of a weekday in the westbound lanes of a divided two-way urban roadway at the cusp of a signalized intersection. The east/west roadway consisted of three lanes in each direction and a turning lane. The bituminous roadway was dry, straight, and level with a posted speed limit of 48kmph (30 mph). At the time of the crash the roadway was dark, but lighted with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

V1, a 2004 Kia Optima that was westbound in lane two approaching the intersection. V2, a 1998 Nissan Altima, was also westbound in lane two in front of V1. V3, a 2000 Lincoln Town Car taxi was in lane two ahead of V2. As V2 and V3 approached the intersection, V1 failed to slow down and struck the rear of V2. The impact pushed V2 into V3. V2 and V3 came to final rest near their respective points of impact while V1 fled the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by an unknown person who fled the scene after the crash. No further information could be obtained regarding the driver or vehicle.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with lower steady. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as unknown driver error. The only associated factor coded to V1 was a decision error, traveling too fast for conditions.

V2 was driven by a 40-year-old male who sustained minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. After numerous attempts this researcher was not able to obtain an interview with this driver. V2 was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in the same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to the driver. There were no known associated factors coded to V1 however, the driver was not thought to have contributed to the crash.

V3 was driven by a 56-year-old male who did not sustain any injuries. A 37 year-old female passenger in the backseat also did not sustain any injuries. The driver stated that he had just started to move in traffic when he was struck by V2. V3 was not towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V3 was coded other, not involved in the first harmful event. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to the driver. No associated factors were coded to V3 and the driver was not thought to have contributed to the crash.