An intersection related crash occurred at mid-afternoon in an urban residential location. The roadways were dry at the time of this incident. The East/West legs of the intersection were straight & level and comprised of one travel lane in each direction with adjacent street parking allowed by the curb. There are no traffic controls for the East/West travel lanes, which had a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). The North/South legs of the intersection are also straight & level and comprised of one travel lane in each direction with adjacent street parking. The North/South legs are controlled by stop signs with a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). There are no sight line restrictions at this location.

Very little information was obtained as to factors leading up to the collision. No driver interviews were obtained, nor a copy of the police report or medical records. There were no known witnesses to the collision. Most information known about the crash is derived from the vehicle inspections and vehicle dynamics. There was no indication of vehicle deficiencies for any of the vehicle's from the vehicle inspections. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

Vehicle one (V1), a silver 2000 Plymouth Neon four-door sedan, was approaching a stop sign before the intersection going south. Vehicle two (V2) was a black 2006 Nissan Maxima four-door sedan that was approaching the intersection heading eastbound with no traffic controls. Vehicle three (V3) was a white 1998 Chevrolet Malibu four-door sedan that was stopped at a stop sign before the intersection facing north. As V1 crossed through the intersection going straight and it was impacted on the right side by the front of V2. This impact caused V1 to head in the direction of V3, and the front of V1 impacted with the front of V3 where they came to final rest. It is unknown if V1 stopped for its stop sign before proceeding into the intersection.

A partial vehicle inspection for V1 was obtained at the scene of the collision. No information is available about the driver and it is unknown if there were any additional passengers in the vehicle. Prior to the researchers arrival on-scene the driver was transported to an unknown medical facility for unknown injuries. Based on the vehicle dynamics and lack of physical evidence, there was no indication that this driver made any avoidance actions prior to the crash. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling/ crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was assigned to V1 because V1 proceeded into the intersection with insufficient clearance, imposed upon V2's travel and did not yield the right-of-way to V2. It is unknown why the driver did this and the Critical Reason was coded as an unknown type of driver error for V1.

A vehicle inspection for V2 was obtained at the scene of the collision. No information is available about the driver and it is unknown if there were any additional passengers in the vehicle. Upon the researchers arrival on-scene, the driver was not present. It is unknown if the driver was transported to a medical facility or if they were injured. Based on the vehicle dynamics and lack of physical evidence, there was no indication that this driver made any avoidance actions prior to the crash. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment/ from crossing street (across path). The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.

A partial vehicle inspection for V3 was obtained at the scene of the collision. No information is available about the driver and it is unknown if there were any additional passengers in the vehicle. Upon the researchers arrival on-scene, the driver was not present. It is unknown if the driver was transported to a medical facility or if they were injured. V3 was stopped at a stop sign at the time it was impacted by V1. V3 was not involved in the first harmful event.