This two vehicle crash occurred mid-morning during daylight hours at a four-way intersection that is controlled by a traffic light on colors. There are two left turn lanes, two through lanes and a dedicated right turn lane for eastbound traffic. There are two through traffic lanes and one left turn lane for westbound traffic. The speed limit on the roadway is posted 72 kmph (45 mph). It was a clear morning on a weekday with light traffic.

Vehicle one (V-1), a 2003 Honda Accord LX sedan driven by a 86 year-old female was stopped in the outside left tune lane of the eastbound lanes at the intersection on a red arrow. Vehicle two (V-2), a 2002 Geo Tracker suv driven by a 70 year-old male was traveling westbound in the #1 lane approaching the intersection on a green light at about 72 kmph (45 mph). A witness that was stopped behind V-1 stated that V-1 traveled forward and then stopped and then began to make a left turn on a red arrow. V-1 made the left turn across the path of V-2. The front of V-2 struck the front of V-2. The impact caused V-1 to rotate counterclockwise and side-slap V 2 and travel in a southwesterly direction across the intersection. V-1 came to rest near the southwest corner of the intersection facing in a southerly direction. The impact caused V-2 to rotate clockwise and travel in a northerly direction into the southbound lanes of the intersection coming to rest in the #2 southbound lane facing in a northwesterly direction. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

The driver has a past medical history of: hypertension, osteoporosis, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (asthma). She takes the following current medications: Atenolol, Albuterol, Vitamin C, Norvasc, Advair and Zoloft. The investigating officer reported that when he spoke to this driver at the hospital her speech was slurred & he suspected a medical condition may have contributed to the collision. The medical report indicated the driver was observed by EMS to be somewhat confused, however the driver told the staff that she was fully conscious during the collision and felt normal the morning before the crash. The driver of V 1 stated to the researcher that she was initially stopped at the intersection looking at the traffic light intending to turn left to go home. She stated that she was confused if she could make a left turn and thought she had the green arrow. The driver then began to make a left turn and was looking at her turn destination while making the left turn and did not see the other car approaching traveling westbound. There were no sight line restrictions in the area at the time of the crash. V 1 an V 2 towed due to damage. The critical pre crash event was coded this vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection. The critical reason was coded driver related factor-"inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)".".

The critical pre crash event was coded other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction-over the left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.