A three-vehicle rear-end crash occurred during mid to late afternoon rush hour commuter traffic on a divided freeway. The northbound travel lanes of this divided freeway are comprised of four-lanes that were level and straight with a dry concrete surface. It was daylight and the weather was clear. Traffic was traveling at approximately the posted speed limit, which is 97 kmph (60-mph), but then it slowed down. There is an on-ramp on the right side, but the crash occurred past (north of) the ramp. All three vehicles involved in the collision were initially traveling in the #1 (right) travel lane.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1988 Chevrolet ¾ ton full size conversion van, was traveling northbound in the right #1 lane. The driver looked in his left side outside mirror to prepare to change lanes to his left. When he looked back traffic was stopped ahead in his lane. The driver applied the brakes and tried to steer left, but struck the rear of V2. After the impact the driver drove vehicle one to the right shoulder and stopped. The vehicle was disabled and was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Hyundai Tiburon GT two door, was traveling northbound in front of vehicle one. V3 stopped for traffic ahead. V2's driver turned his vehicle slightly to the right and stopped behind V3. The driver stated he had been stopped of approximately two seconds before his vehicle was struck in the rear by V1. On impact V2 was push forward into the rear of V3. V2 came to rest off the roadway on the right shoulder. The vehicle was disabled and towed from the scene.

Vehicle three (V3), a 2005 Chevrolet Cavalier four door sedan, was traveling northbound in the right lane ahead of V2. The driver stopped for traffic ahead and was struck in the rear by V2. V3 was not disabled and was driven away from the scene.

The driver of V1, a 23-year-old male, was wearing a lap & shoulder belt and complained of a possible neck injury. The driver was well rested and was coming from home and was on his way to school. He was familiar with the roadway and was approximately 3-kilometers (2 miles) from his home when the crash occurred. The critical reason for the crash was as the driver was traveling at a reported speed of 97 kmph (60 mph), the driver took his eyes off the road to check traffic in the lane to his left and when he looked back forward traffic had come to a sudden stop. He attempted to brake & steer left to avoid the forward vehicle but was unable to respond to the unexpected action of traffic stopped in his lane. He had made a false assumption traffic would continue to proceed when he first glanced in his side mirror. In doing this, the driver misjudged the speed & gap distance of the forward traffic. The critical pre-crash event for V1 was: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event was assigned to the driver of V1 as a driver related factor: too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of other road users.

The driver of V2, a 22-year-old male, was wearing a lap & shoulder belt and complained of neck and back injuries. The driver took evasive action when V3 stopped in front of him and was able to stop his vehicle without contacting V3. He stated he was then stopped for 2 seconds before V1 impacted the rear of his vehicle pushing his vehicle into the back of V3. The driver of the vehicle in front of him (V3) was his father. They had just left their restaurant and driven approximately 6-kilometers (4-miles) before the crash occurred. They were not in a hurry and were on their way to a store. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event was not assigned to this driver/vehicle.

The driver of V3, a 52-year-old male, was wearing a lap & shoulder belt and complained of neck and back injury. V3 was rental car, so the driver was not familiar with the vehicle. A surrogate interview for this driver was conducted with his son, who was driving V2. He was able to stop his vehicle in time, but was struck in the rear by V2. The vehicle just had minor rear bumper damage and was driven to the shoulder after the impact. V3 was not involved in the lst harmful event of the crash and no critical reason was assigned to this driver/vehicle.