A two-vehicle crash occurred in a T-intersection during daylight hours. The westbound roadway is divided by a curbed median and consists of two lanes in each direction. This roadway surface is concrete, level and straight and the speed limit is 64 kmph (40 mph). The intersecting roadway (on the north side) is a two-lane roadway that curves right and is uphill in the southbound direction. The southbound traffic is controlled by temporary stop signs at the intersection and the speed limit is 40 kmph (25 mph). A construction crew was installing traffic signals at this intersection at the time of the crash, but their activity did not affect the drivers in this crash. One of the construction trucks was parked on the sidewalk off the northeast corner of the intersection, creating a view obstruction between the drivers in this crash. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one, a 1997 Pontiac Grand Am coupe, was westbound in the number one lane, intending to continue traveling straight through the intersection. Vehicle two, a 1996 Mercury Sable sedan, was southbound, intending to turn left at the intersection. After vehicle two stopped at the intersection, the driver looked left, did not see vehicle one, and then looked right to check for traffic in the eastbound lanes (her intended travel lane). After the eastbound traffic has passed, the driver of vehicle two entered the intersection to turn left. In the intersection, the front of vehicle one struck the left side of vehicle two. Vehicle one came to rest west of the intersection in the westbound lanes facing west. Vehicle two rotated counterclockwise and came to rest facing northwest just west of the center of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, an eighteen-year-old female, was driving from her home to work. She was well rested and familiar with both her vehicle and her route. She takes no medication and was wearing her prescription eyeglasses. She did see vehicle two approaching the intersection, but knew that there was a stop sign for vehicle two. When she realized that vehicle two had continued into the intersection, she applied the brakes but it was too late.

The driver of vehicle two, an eighteen-year-old female, was also driving from her home to work. She had not had as much sleep as usual (five and on-half hours of sleep rather than the usual eight hours) but was familiar with both her vehicle and her route. She takes Allegra, an antihistamine. She had left home a little later than usual and was concerned that she would be late for work. She also was thinking about her impending move out of her parents' house. She looked left and the parked truck was in her sight line for the westbound lanes, but she looked right and then turned left without looking left again.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was not coded to this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason coded as driver related factor: inadequate surveillance.