This two-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of two two-lane roadways. The westbound roadway is uphill at six percent and is controlled by a stop sign. The westbound road has a speed limit of 40 kph (25 mph). The southbound road is straight and level with no defects. This road has a speed limit of 48 kph (30 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one, a 2005 Toyota Camry was stopped westbound at the stop sign. Vehicle two, a 2000 Chevrolet Impala was southbound in the first lane. Vehicle one turned right at the intersection crossed the centerline and impacted vehicle two with its front plane on the left plane of vehicle two. Vehicle one continued and departed the west shoulder and impacted a fire hydrant with its front plane. Vehicle two rotated counter clockwise and came to rest facing north in the first northbound lane. Vehicle one was driven from the scene. Vehicle two was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, an eighty-six year old female was returning home from getting her car washed at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about thirty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that she was stopped and looked both directions before proceeding. This driver indicated that she was experiencing some sun glare in the direction she was turning. This driver stated that as she turned she saw the other vehicle and went to apply the brakes but hit the gas pedal. This driver was taking Celebrex, Evista, Lipitor and Prilosec as medications. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a twenty-eight year old male was heading out to pay a bill at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about fifteen minutes at the time of the crash. This driver saw the other vehicle, steered right and braked but was unable to avoid. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as "this vehicle traveling: turning left at the intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as "driver related factor: poor directional control." The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "other vehicle encroachment: from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." The critical reason from the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "not coded to this vehicle."