A two vehicle daytime collision occurred on a cloudy Sunday afternoon. The collision occurred on a five-lane, undivided, dry, level, asphalt roadway. The roadway is designated 56 kmph (35 mph).

Vehicle one (V1) is a 1995 Ford Ranger 4x2 super cab pick-up truck, traveling east in the number three lane. Vehicle two (V2) is a 2006 Toyota Scion TC 2-door hatchback. V2 was traveling west in the number one lane after making a left turn from the northbound number three lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was behind several non-contact vehicles in his travel lane prior to an intersection. The driver of V1 attempted a left turn across the center double-yellow lane lines into a private driveway for a car wash that preceded the intersection. V2's front plane impacted V1's right plane as. V1 came to rest facing north at the curb in the westbound number one lane. V2 came to rest at impact facing west. V1 was towed with moderate damage. V2 was driven from the scene. There were two non-contact vehicles in the left turn lane ahead of V1, which blocked his view.

The driver of V1 is a 20-year-old male with 5 years of driving experience in Mexico and 1-½ years in the USA. He has 6 months experience driving this type of vehicle. He does not have a license to drive in the USA, but claimed to have a foreign driver's license from Mexico. The driver had gotten off of work about 10 minutes prior to the crash and decided to stop at a car wash on his way home. Just before the crash he was listening to the radio and had put a soda he was drinking into a cup holder. This driver's sightline of V2's presence was blocked by the forward non-contact vehicles' present in front of him. The driver made a decision to turn with an obstructed view of V2's presence.

The driver of V2 is a 34-year-old female with 19 years of driving experience. The driver has a myopic (near sighted) condition and was wearing her glasses at the time of the crash. She has a restriction on her license for corrective lenses. She is recently divorced and was thinking about the divorce at the time. She is currently sleeping at her sisters home. Her kids woke her up the previous night because of nightmares. She slept from 2330 to 0900 hours that night.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling, Turning left at intersection. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment - from opposite direction, over the left lane line. The critical reason was assigned to V1 and was coded as a driver decision factor: other decision error (specified as: turned with obstructed view). The view obstruction was created by the in-transport non-contact vehicle's forward of his vehicle.