This crash occurred at a 4-way intersection with traffic control signals. The north/south roadway was undivided with four lanes of travel. Both directions had a left turn-only lane. The crash occurred in the early evening hours while still daylight. The roadway was dry and had a slight uphill grade in the northbound direction and a slight downhill grade in the southbound direction. The posted speed limit was 89 kmph (55 mph).

V1 was a 1994 Ford Mustang driven by an 18-year old female. She was driving her mother and 2-year old child home from the video store. V1 was traveling north, and the driver intended to turn left at the intersection. As she approached the intersection, the light was green. The driver of V1 decelerated as she entered the left turn lane and stopped for approximately 5-10 seconds. V1 then started to make a left turn onto the westbound roadway. As it turned, the front of V1 struck the left side of V2, a 2005 Pontiac Montana minivan that had been traveling south straight through the intersection. After being struck, V2 traveled to the right shoulder to final rest. V1 traveled several feet westbound before coming to final rest, blocking the right turn lane of the southbound lanes. There were no injuries. V1 was towed due to damage but V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 reported that she was in good health and takes no medications. She also stated that she does not wear corrective lenses. She stated that her vehicle has a glare on the windshield due to the dash panel that makes it hard to see oncoming traffic at some times of the day. She stated that she sat at the traffic light for 5-10 seconds and could not see any vehicles coming. As she started her turn, she claimed that V2 must have blocked the sun glare and it was too late to take any evasive actions. She stated that she was really scared when her mother's seatbelt came unhooked but her mother stated she was not injured.

V2 was driven by a 61-year old male who reported that he was in good health and was not taking any medications. He does not wear corrective lenses. He claimed that he slows down for all intersections because you don't know what the other drivers are going to do. He also stated that he saw V1 begin its left turn so he steered right while braking but did not want to leave his lane and take a chance on contacting another vehicle. He stated after being struck on the left side, his vehicle traveled another 50 feet and came to final rest on the right shoulder of the roadway.

The Critical Pre-crash Event coded to V1 was: This vehicle turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). Associated factors coded to this driver include conversation with the passenger and looking at the movements of other occupants (it was believed that the child in the rear seat may have distracted the driver).

The Critical Pre-crash Event coded to V2 was other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associated factors coded to this driver.

Witness #2 stated he was traveling behind V1, also intending to made a left turn. He stated that both he and V1 had moved into the left turn lane. He stated that they came to a stop and were there for about 10 seconds and that he saw V2 approaching. He then noted V1 moving forward and thought to himself, "Please don't start the turn." He said the next thing he saw was V1 start its turn and hit the side of V2. He stated that he was happy the vehicle did not move any faster or it would have been out in front of V2 and would have been hit rather than being the one that did the striking.