The crash occurred at the intersection of two roadways. The east/west roadway was a two-way, seven-lane street, divided by a curbed median. The posted speed for east/west traffic was 72 kmph (45 mph). The north/south roadway was a two-way, two-lane, undivided street, with a posted speed of 40 kmph (25 mph). The north/south roadway was controlled by a stop sign. These were straight, level, asphalt roads. Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 2006 Nissan Frontier with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane one. V2, a 1990 Toyota Camry with three occupants, was traveling westbound in lane two. V3, a 2005 Dodge Ram with two occupants, was stopped facing south, waiting to turn right. All three vehicles were approaching the same intersection. The driver of V1 attempted to turn left. The right side of V1 made contact with the front of V2. This impact was followed immediately by a sideslip between the right side of V1 and the left side of V2. V1 and V2 began heading northwest, toward V3. The front of V2 made contact with the left side of V3. The front of V1 made contact with the front of V3. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. The occupants of V1 and V2 were checked on scene by EMS. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

V1, the Nissan Frontier, was driven by a 54-year old male. He said that he was on his way home from work. He stated that he was stopped at the intersection, facing north. When traffic had cleared, he pulled out across the eastbound traffic lanes into the median area. Once in the median area, he had to wait for westbound traffic to clear, before making his left turn. When he thought it was clear for him to turn, he went. He stated that he never saw the other vehicle coming. He commented that she must have been going very fast for such a small vehicle to cause so much damage to his truck.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a recognition error, inadequate surveillance. The driver looked in the required direction, but did not see the oncoming vehicle. The driver gave standard responses to avoid a perceived implication of fault, so it was difficult to probe for any associated factors for this driver.

V2, the Toyota Camry, was driven by a 35-year old female. She was going shopping with her mother and her daughter. She stated that as she approached the intersection, she was traveling at or below the speed limit. She said that she saw V1 in the median area, and believed that he also saw her. As she got to the intersection, the driver of V1 pulled out in front of her. She indicated that she tried to steer right and locked her brakes, but couldn't stop in time.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street turning into same direction". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. There was the presence of a social conversation in the vehicle. The driver was also not from the area and not familiar with the roadway.

V3, the Dodge Ram, was driven by a 39-year old female. She indicated that she had just left her mother's house on her way to take care of her horses. She was stopped at the intersection, facing south. She was waiting for traffic to clear so that she could make a right turn. She said that she did not think V2 was traveling very fast. As she was waiting, her passenger asked to use her phone. The driver stated that she looked down at the phone as she handed it over to her friend. When she looked back up, the two vehicles had collided, and were both heading toward her vehicle.

There was no Critical Precrash Event for V3. V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. Driver factors included the presence of vision impairment. The driver was not complying with the restrictions on her license, which require her to wear corrective lenses. There was also the presence of an interior distraction. The driver was looking at her cell phone inside the vehicle, and talking to her passenger.