"his two-vehicle crash occurred in the late morning hours on a three-lane southbound expressway with rumble strips on both sides and a concrete positive barrier separating the northbound lanes, which do not factor into this crash. The roadway at the site of the crash is straight, level, has no visible deficiencies, and made of asphalt. The conditions were clear and dry at the time, with late morning congestion and construction going on. The speed limit is 72 kmph (45 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a Freightliner truck pulling one empty flatbed trailer, was traveling southbound in lane two. The driver, a 35-year-old male, has high blood pressure and was not wearing his corrective glasses for far-sightedness at the time of the crash. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Lincoln LS with two male occupants aged 32 and 52, was traveling southbound in lane one just forward and to the right of V2. V1 was in the blind spot of V2. The driver of V1 reported that there was an upcoming split in the expressway and he needed to get over into lane one. In the process of changing lanes to the right, the right front side of V1 struck the left side of V2. As V2 started to spin out to the right, the drive axle on V1 struck the back left of V2. V2 came to rest on the right shoulder. V1 came to a controlled stop on the left shoulder. V1 was not towed and the occupant was not injured. V2 was towed due to significant damage all along the left side and both occupants were taken to the hospital with non-incapacitating injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 stated during the interview he saw V2 thru the right side rear view mirror and that V2 was behind him in lane one. The driver also went on to state he thought he had a gap distance sufficient to change lanes to the right. He stated that as he initiated the lane change, V2 sped up and the trailer struck V2. The damage pattern to V2 as well as the narrative on the PAR supports the above collision dynamics and impacts. The driver is familiar with the vehicle and travels the route twice a month.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded "this vehicle traveling-over the lane line on right side of travel lane". The critical reason was coded "inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see)". At the time of the lane change, V2 was in the blind spot and the driver could not detect V2. Additional factors include traffic congestion and the crash occurred in a work zone. The design of V1 also prevented detection of V2.

The driver of V2 could not be located for an interview. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded "other vehicle encroachment-from adjacent lane-same direction)-over left lane line". A critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.