This single-vehicle crash occurred on a bituminous, straight, divided, seven-lane, wet roadway. There are four westbound lanes and four eastbound lanes with an entrance ramp merge lane with a posted speed limit of 105 kph (65 mph). It was mid-afternoon on a weekend and it was raining and the road was wet with pockets of standing water.

Vehicle one, a 2003 Mitsubishi Outlander was eastbound, coming off the entrance ramp and quickly changed to lane two and than three. Vehicle one stayed in lane three until she started to hydroplane. The vehicle started to rotate counter clockwise and entered lane four. The vehicle, still rotating counter clockwise, ran off the left side of the highway impacting a cement barrier with its front. Vehicle one came off the cement barrier still rotating counter clockwise and impact the barrier again with its back. Vehicle one then tripped and rolled over two quarter turns and came to rest on its roof. Vehicle one was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1.

The driver of vehicle one, a sixty-year-old female was leaving a restaurant and was bringing her mom home. This driver had been driving for about one half hour at the time of the crash. The driver had slept nine hours the night before because this was her second day off, and felt rested. She usually sleeps six to seven hours a night because of her work schedule of six days on and two days off. Her longest day was ten hours; her shortest day was eight hours with an average of 9 hours a day, working a total of 54 hours the week before. She drives this road daily and it was cloudy and raining at the time. The driver was taking her mother home after having a birthday lunch with her. The driver is a professional bus driver and was listening to the passengers has they talked and did not participate because of her 600 hours of bus training taught her not too. The driver stated once she started to hydroplane, that she started to tap the brakes and steer out of the skid, but the vehicle just kept on going. She also stated that she feels safer and knows a bus a whole lot better then her small vehicle. The vehicle had low tread on all four tires.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was “this vehicle control loss due to: poor road conditions (puddles, pot hole, ice, etc.)”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded as “environment related factor: rain, snow”.