The rear-end collision involving four vehicles occurred during daylight hours in mid-afternoon on a Thursday. The crash occurred on an eight lane undivided, two-way urban roadway in the third lane going southbound. There were three lanes going southbound and five lanes going northbound. This was a straight, slightly down hill, bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 72 kmph (45 mph). It was mid-afternoon on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear. The traffic volume was heavy and traffic forward of the involved vehicles had stopped for a non-contact vehicle attempting to make a left turn.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Jeep Grand Cherokee four door sport utility vehicle with three occupants was traveling southbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Chrysler Concorde four door with one occupant was traveling southbound in front of vehicle one in the same lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 1996 Ford Windstar three door mini-van with a driver and three other occupants was also traveling southbound in front of vehicle two in the same lane. Traffic began to slow to a stop because of a non-contact vehicle that was stopped waiting to make a left turn. The front of vehicle one contacted the back of vehicle two pushing vehicle two forward. In an attempt to avoid hitting the back of Vehicle three, driver two steered to the left to avoid contact with vehicle three, but was unsuccessful. The front right side of vehicle two contacted the back left side of vehicle three. Vehicle two continued to move forward and contact vehicle four (V4), a 2002 Hyundai Elantra four door sedan, which had moved to the inside left turn lane for northbound traffic. V2 contacted V4 with its right front side to V4's left side. V2 and V4 came to rest in the far left turn lane of northbound traffic. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

A 25-year old female who was reported with no injuries drove V1. This driver was not transported to a medical facility so it can be reasoned that there were no non-performance factors for medical reasons for this driver. V1 was equipped with both driver and passenger airbags that did not deploy. V1 was not towed even though it had a fluid spill. The driver of V1 was hesitant of the NASS researcher and avoided interviews a number of times. Due to the lack of interview information many factors for this driver are unknown. The Police reported her speed as going 72 kmph (45 mph), which is the speed limit. It was also reported that a seat belt was used during the crash. There was no scene evidence that the driver of V1 made any avoidance actions to V2, which indicates that this driver was traveling too fast to anticipate forward traffic in this travel lane to unexpectedly be stopping. It is unknown if this driver was externally or internally distracted, or why she failed to recognize and react to the situation. Since there were no avoidance actions taken, this driver did not realize that caution was required for the forward traffic that was stopping. Because of this there was a misjudgment by this driver of the speed and gap distance of the forward vehicle. The Critical Precrash Event for vehicle one was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded to this vehicle as: type of driver error unknown. It is suspected that this was either a decision or recognition error for this driver; however, it could not be determined which applied due to lack of additional information.

A 29-year old male who reported no injuries drove V2. V2 was equipped with driver and passenger airbags which both deployed during the collision. V2 was towed due to moderate back damage. He was decelerating in the travel lane, traveling approximately 16 kmph (10 mph). Driver of V2 reported seeing in the rearview mirror V1 coming up from behind him. He also reported having the radio on while he was driving. He reported that he was slowing down for traffic when V1 impacted his vehicle from behind. He then reported being pushed forward, and attempted to turn to the left to avoid hitting V3 but was unsuccessful, and his front plane impacted the rear of V3. He then continued to move forward and contact V4. The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle.

A 30-year-old female who was in her 3rd trimester of pregnancy drove V3, the 1996 Ford Windstar van. After the crash she was transported to the trauma center for possible injuries & to check the fetus. V3 three was equipped with driver and passenger airbags that did not deploy. V3 three was not towed due to damage. She reported going approximately 48 kmph (30 mph) when a forward vehicle in this travel lane stopped to make a left turn. As she was conversing with a passenger in V2, the vehicle in front of her stopped. Just as she was slowing down, she felt a hit from behind her. She reported hitting her head and not remembering much after that. The police report indicated that a seat belt was used during the crash. The critical Precrash event for V3 was coded: other, not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.