The crash involving two vehicles occurred shortly before noon during daylight hours at an intersection with traffic lights. The speed limit for the roadway is 64 kmph (40 mph). The road is a 3-lane divided (no positive barrier) concrete roadway for both vehicles. The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1993 Cadillac Deville, driven by a 23 year-old female with two passengers was traveling south in the third lane attempting a left turn at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Buick Century driven by s 41 year-old female was traveling north in lane two of the southbound lanes, attempting to pass through the intersection. Within the intersection, the front of V2 impacted with the right side of V1. V2 rotated clock wise and moved northeast. V1 rotated counter clockwise and moved north into the northbound lanes. During the rotation of both vehicles, both vehicles side slapped each other. V1 came to rest within the northbound lanes, facing northwest. V2 came to rest within the westbound lanes, facing northeast. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Both drivers and the right front occupant of V1 were transported to a local medical facility. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling- turning left at an intersection The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed. The driver stated she let 2 other northbound vehicles pass before proceeding with the left turn. The protective left turn arrow was not illuminated at the time she turned. The researcher observed the traffic lights turn green for both directions before the southbound lanes receive a protective left turn arrow.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment, over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.