This three-vehicle crash took place on a weekday afternoon on a two-lane undivided urban roadway. The north/south roadway consisted of a single lane in each direction flanked by parking lanes and a posted speed limit of 48kmph (30 mph). The bituminous roadway was dry, level, straight and free of any defect. Traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1991 Nissan Maxima was northbound in lane one when it drifted over the right lane line into the parking lane. V1's front right corner struck V2, a 1999 Chevrolet Tahoe, a vehicle that was legally parked in the back left corner. V1 continued forward approximately 1.5 meters and struck V2 again, (this second event involved V1's front right wheel striking the front left wheel of V2). V1 retained enough momentum to proceed north for approximately 2.5 meters until the front right section of V1 struck the rear left section of the third vehicle (V3, a 1999 Nissan Maxima) before coming to final rest. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a 48 year-old female, was transported directly from the scene to an emergency and was not present upon researcher's arrival. Driver of V1 was later contacted where it was discovered that she suffers from Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). The driver explained that she had just been discharged from a four-day stay at an area hospital for observations due to complaints about throat and chest pains related to her COPD. Driver had been home for one day and one night and then, on the day of the crash, driver stated that while she was at home her throat began to burn and she described the pain as being so bad that she felt as if she might die. Driver explained that she didn't call for an ambulance, as she did not wish to return to the same hospital. The driver recalls making the decision to operate her brother's vehicle knowingly with a suspended license for the purpose of taking herself to a different hospital. She remembers heading northbound on this street and that she was very concerned because she was in such pain. She stated that is the last thing that she remembers before she "passed out". Driver did acknowledge that she was tired, but stated that she was certain that she didn't fall asleep because though she was tired, she said that she was so worried and excited about this “unbearable pain” (in her throat) that sleeping would have been the last thing she would have been able to do.

The Critical Precrash Event was coded this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the right side of travel lane. The Critical Reason was coded as a driver related factor, a heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act. Associated factors coded to V1 include worn tread on front right tire, choosing to operate a motor vehicle while experiencing a medical emergency (pain so bad that driver stated she thought she may die), being emotionally upset, driving while under extreme stress (and pain), driver fatigue, and having recently taken part in extraneous physical activities in that driver cares for her mother who was confined to bed due to Alzheimer's disease. Additionally, driver takes medications that have the following possible side effects: blurred vision, dizziness, throat irritation, nervousness, chest pains, difficulty sleeping, tremors, and more. (Driver had acknowledged that she sleeps 12 or more hours a day with up to 3 of those hours being daytime naps). It was concluded that this driver did not fall asleep at the wheel, but rather experienced an unknown physiological change in her level of consciousness that physically impaired her ability to continue to operate her vehicle. Worthy of noting, the driver stated that it was later discovered that she had two broken "chest bones" and "two or three" fractured ribs (the cause of these injuries was believed to this crash).

V2 was legally parked in the northbound parking lane and was not in-transport. As stated earlier, V2 sustained disabling damage when V1 broke V2's front right wheel. It was unoccupied and was towed due to damage.

V3 was also legally parked in the northbound parking lane and not in-transport. V3 sustained substantial damage to its right rear though remained drivable. It was unoccupied and was later driven from the scene.