This two-vehicle crash occurred in the afternoon of a weekday at an intersection/interchange on a main throughway that runs north and south, with entrance and exit ramps for east and westbound highway traffic. This intersection is controlled by pre-timed traffic signals (no pedestrian cross) and has a left-turn arrow for northbound traffic. This intersection also has the most crashes reported in the entire county. The conditions were clear, dry, daylight at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1998 Ford Ranger XL, was stopped facing north at the intersection intending to turn left. V2, a 1995 Ford Taurus, was southbound approaching the same intersection intending to proceed through it. Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the front of V2 struck the right side of V1. V1 rolled onto its roof and came to final rest in the southwest corner of the intersection. V2 continued south and drove to a controlled stop on the right roadside. EMS arrived at the scene but both drivers refused treatment. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

V1 was driven by a 58 year-old male who was returning to work when he was involved in this crash. This driver states he was stopped at this intersection for more than 10 seconds waiting to turn left onto the highway entrance ramp. While waiting to turn left, a vehicle traveling in the opposite direction “waived him to turn left.” Once he began to turn left, he saw V2 speeding toward him. This driver accelerated and tried to clear the intersection to avoid a collision but was struck on the right rear by the front of V2. His truck spun around and rolled onto its roof. During this interview, the company's safety director called this driver and told him to stop talking. I spoke with the director when he arrived on scene and he was cooperative but said he would have to get permission from the corporate office before allowing his driver to talk. After two weeks, the director called and said the company would allow the survey if the driver wanted to cooperate. The driver declined to volunteer any information after his company granted permission.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Event was coded as a driver related factor, inadequate surveillance as the driver turned without looking to see if the intersection was clear. Associated factors include a false assumption as the driver assumed the roadway was clear after the non-contact vehicle waived him on as well as a roadway related factor, as the driver's view was obstructed by another vehicle.

V2 was driven by a 53 year-old male who was returning to work from a lunch break when he was involved in this crash. This driver stated he was traveling south toward this intersection when V1 turned across his path without any warning. He also stated that another southbound vehicle may have obstructed the sightline of V1, but that there was very little traffic on the road and V1 should have seen him. This driver slammed on his brakes and steered right after noticing V1 enter the intersection but he could not avoid striking V1. After the crash, this driver drove his car onto the right roadside to keep the roadway clear.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction-over left lane line. The Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factor coded for V2 was a roadway factor as the driver's view was obstructed by another vehicle.