This six-vehicle crash occurred on a straight, level, curbed median-divided roadway. There are two through lanes in each direction. The speed limit on this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Chevrolet Impala, was southbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Ford Taurus, was in lane two in front of V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 2006 Ford E350 van, was in lane two in front of V2. Vehicle four (V4), a 2006 Dodge Stratus, was in lane two in front of V3. Vehicle five (V5), a 2005 Ford F150 pickup, was in lane two in front of V4. Vehicle six (V6), a 2006 Suzuki Grand Vitara, was in lane two behind V1. V2, V3, V4 and V5 stopped due to a stalled vehicle. The front of V1 struck the back of V2. V2 moved forward and the front struck the back of V3. V3 moved forward and the front struck the back of V4. V4moved forward and the front struck the back of V5. The front of V6 then struck the back of V1. V1, V2 and V4 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The drivers of V1, V2 and V3 were traveling from the airport to the rental car company parking lot. They were all employed by the rental car company to transport vehicles and travel this route daily. They were driving these vehicles for the first time. Additionally, all three of these drivers stated that they were in a hurry due to employer requirements.

The driver of V1, a seventy-three-year-old male, was well rested and familiar with his vehicle. This driver stated that he had no preexisting health conditions, but was taking Diovan and Lanoxin, which are prescribed for high blood pressure and congestive heart failure. This driver stated that when he noticed V2's brake lights, he applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid the collision.

The driver of V2, a sixty-three-year-old male, was well rested. He takes medication for high blood pressure as well as Hytrin, Zocor and vitamins.

The driver of V3, a seventy-six-year-old male, was well rested. This driver stated that he has heart problems and takes Warfarin, Amiodarone, Terazosin and Monopril.

The driver of V4 was a fifty-three-year-old male, the driver of V5 was a sixty-one-year-old male and the driver of V6 was a seventy-two-year-old male.

The pre-event movement for V1 was coded as "going straight." The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; other vehicle stopped." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)."

The pre-event movement for V2 was coded as "going straight." The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded was "not coded to this vehicle."

The pre-event movement for V3 was coded as "going straight." The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded as "other; not involved first harmful event." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was "not coded to this vehicle."