This two-vehicle crash occurred in the early afternoon hours in a traffic signal-controlled intersection. The east/west roadway is divided by a curbed median and the speed limit is 72 kph (45 mph). The two eastbound lanes are uphill and curved to the right. The westbound lanes, which are level and straight, consist of two through lanes and a left-turn lane. It was raining at the time of this crash.

Vehicle one, a 2005 Ford Focus, was eastbound in the right lane, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two, a 1988 Buick Century, was westbound in the left-turn lane. The traffic signal was solid green for both directions. As vehicle two turned left at the intersection, the right side was struck by the front of vehicle one. Vehicle one rotated clockwise and came to rest in the intersection facing southwest. Vehicle two rotated clockwise and came to rest next to the curbed median of the southbound roadway facing northeast. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Several witnesses stated vehicle one had a green signal. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a twenty-four-year-old female, was traveling (with her two-year-old daughter) from her home to her parents' home for lunch. She was familiar with her vehicle and the roadway. She was well rested and takes several medications (Paxil, Levothroid and birth control pills) that were not relevant to this crash. She was aware of vehicle two approaching in the turn lane, but saw that her traffic signal was green and assumed that the other driver would wait to make the turn until after she had passed through the intersection. When she realized that vehicle two was not stopping, she applied her brakes but was unable to avoid the collision.

The driver of vehicle two, a thirty-one-year-old female, was traveling from her home to a job interview. She does not have a driver's license and was driving a friend's vehicle. As she approached the intersection, she noticed that her traffic signal was a green arrow, however the signal turned solid green for some time since the driver of vehicle one did not stop for the signal and slowed down because the driver saw vehicle two approaching. She was familiar with the roadway and decelerated to make her turn. She stated that she was thinking about the job interview and did not see vehicle one prior to the crash. She takes several medications, (Prilosec, Flexeril, Daypro, Lorazepam and an unspecified drug for bipolar disorder) which may have contributed to her failure to be reasonably attentive to her driving environment.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as "not coded to this vehicle." The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)."