This rear-end type crash occurred just after noon on a clear day, on a dry two-lane, undivided, bituminous roadway that curves to the left for northbound traffic. The speed limit is 89 kmph (55 mph) and the traffic was light. The crash occurred in a rural area where the roadside is cleared of any fixed objects. The impact occurred on a positive 2% grade for northbound traffic. At the crest is a bridge, the impact occurred 22 meters (72 ft.) south of the south edge of the bridge. Roadway markings consist of a fog line which identifies the outer edge of the traffic lanes, a broken yellow centerline marking and a continuous yellow stripe signifying a "no passing" zone for northbound traffic. The northbound lane has a 3.3 meter wide improved asphalt shoulder with rumble strip followed by a sloped sod roadside. A metal guardrail protects the end of the bridge from errant vehicles.

Vehicle two (V2), a 1976 International Harvester 986 Tractor with a tri-deck mower attached to the rear of the tractor, was traveling northbound driven by a 70 year old male. The vehicle was traveling in the transport position, the outside decks were raised in the vertical position, and the center deck was also elevated. Two tires located just outside of the center deck support the mower decks. . A triangular sign identifying the slow moving vehicle was attached and plainly visible to following traffic. The tractor and equipment was initially traveling on the shoulder and partially on the sod. As V2 approached a bridge, a guardrail prevented V2 from continuing to travel straddling the shoulder and the grass. V2 moved left onto the shoulder and the left side of the cutter extended into the northbound lane. Vehicle one (V1), was a black 1993 Jeep Cherokee traveling northbound, occupied only by the 21 year old male driver. As V1 approached the rear of V2, the driver was going to pass V2 to the left in the southbound lane in the no passing zone. V1 entered the southbound lane then noticed an oncoming vehicle. To avoid a head-on collision V1 moved back into the northbound lane. The driver of V1 locked the brakes and skidded approximately 30m before the front right of V1 contacted the center mower and left support wheel. V1 then rolled over to the left, two quarter turns, and came to final rest on it's top in the middle of the roadway facing north. V1 was towed due to disabling damage. V1 driver was transported to a local trauma center with visible injuries. V2 traveled forward a short distance from point of impact and came to final rest on the shoulder facing north. V2 driver was not injured and V2 was not towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1 and 89 kmph for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as: Other motor vehicle in lane-traveling in same direction with lower steady speed. The critical reason was coded illegal maneuver. The driver detected the slower moving V2 on the shoulder and approaching the bridge and entering lane one. Rather than slowing for V2, the driver instead attempted to pass in a no passing zone. When he saw an oncoming car, he returned to his original travel lane where the vehicle struck V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as: Other motor vehicle in lane-traveling in same direction with higher speed. A critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. This driver was traveling on the shoulder and then entered the roadway as he approached the bridge. He failed to check for following traffic as he entered the roadway from the right shoulder. He is familiar with the vehicle and route traveled. He should have been conscious of his slow moving vehicle entering the roadway from the shoulder and checked for traffic traveling the speed limit.