The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a two-way, suburban roadway with a two-way center turn lane. There were two northbound and two southbound lanes divided by the center lane. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph) and a 2% downhill grade in the northbound direction. Conditions were daylight and dry with cloudy skies. The setting was midday on a weekday.

Vehicle one was a 2003 Honda Accord LX sedan stopped facing west at a parking lot exit waiting to turn left. Vehicle two was a 1993 Ford Taurus sedan traveling northbound in lane two. V1 began turning left across the path of v2. The left side of v1 was impacted by the front of v2. Both vehicles traveled northwest across the roadway and came to rest in the southbound lanes of travel. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.

The Honda Accord (v1) was driven by a 54-year old female who was uninjured. She stated that she was getting ready to run an errand after meeting her husband at work. She waited 5-10 seconds before pulling out into the roadway, and then was struck unexpectedly after pulling out. She didn't have time to react, and felt that a vehicle to her left may have obscured the vehicle she struck. She estimated her travel and impact speeds to be 3 kmph (2 kmph). Her sedan was towed due to damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for v1 was this vehicle traveling turning left at an intersection. The Critical Reason was a driver related factor of inadequate surveillance (looked but did not see). The driver was wearing sunglasses. She drives this roadway on a weekly basis.

The Ford Taurus (v2) was driven by a 70-year old male who was uninjured. He stated that he was heading home after a hair cut when the other vehicle pulled across the road in front of him. He steered left in avoidance, but was unable to avoid impact. He estimated his travel and impact speeds to be 64 kmph (40 mph). His sedan was towed, but not due to police-reported damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for v2 was other vehicle encroachment from driveway, turning into opposite direction. No Critical Reason was coded to this driver. The driver had a pacemaker. He was taking prescription medication for high-cholesterol and acid reflux. He was retired. He drives the roadway on a weekly basis and received informal driver's training.