This crash occurred in the southbound lane of a two-lane undivided roadway. There was one southbound lane and one northbound lane. This was a straight, level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 72 kmph (45 mph). It was early afternoon on a weekday. The road was dry and sky was clear. Traffic flow was congested with stop-and-go activity.

V1, a 2005 Saturn Vue Sport Utility Vehicle with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane one behind V2. V2, a 1999 Ford Explorer Sport Utility Vehicle with 2 occupants, was traveling southbound in front of V1. Both vehicles were traveling at a constant velocity when a non-contact vehicle in front of V2 hit the brakes for traffic up ahead. In response, V2 hit the brakes as well. As V2 did so, V2 was struck from behind by V1. V1 continued the collision course by going off the roadway to the right and striking a tree head on, which is where the vehicle came to its final rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the 2005 Saturn Vue, was driven by a 44-year-old female with a reported injury. She was transported to a medical facility for treatment. When V2 hit the brakes, V1 continued traveling at the same velocity and impacted the rear of V2 before traveling off the roadway and impacting a tree with its front. The driver of V1 attempted to avoid the crash by braking and steering to the right. The driver of V1 believes that her flip-flop got caught in the pedal and that made her unable to stop in time. This driver was on the way home from chemotherapy treatment, was tired, wanted to get home, and had various personal and emotional problems on her mind. She admitted to being distracted and not paying attention to the road in front of her.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in the same direction while decelerating." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a recognition error-Inattention. The driver admitted to thinking about various personal and emotional problems both relating and unrelated to her illness immediately before the crash. Other associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include fatigue, the physical conditions of cancer and high blood pressure along with various medications for these conditions, being upset, being in a hurry to get home although she did not have to be there at a specified time, and the congested stop-and-go traffic activity on the roadway.

V2, the 1999 Ford Explorer, was driven by a 46-year-old male with a reported injury. He was treated at scene but was not transported because he needed to find childcare for his daughter in the car with him. The 5-year-old daughter reported no injuries. V2 was traveling southbound and was slowing down for the traffic in front of him. He reported that just before the accident occurred, he could have only been traveling less than 10 miles an hour because he was slowing down and the vehicles in front him were coming to a complete stop. Before he was able to come to a complete stop, V1 impacted the rear of his vehicle. This vehicle was not towed due to damage and was driven to the side of the road after the collision occurred. The driver of V2 reported that he was returning home from bringing his mother to the nearby hospital.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in the same direction with higher speed." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factors coded to this driver were the physical condition of diabetes, diabetes medications, and the traffic congestion/stop-and-go traffic.