This crash occurred in the southbound lane of a 2-lane undivided bituminous roadway. There was one southbound lane and one northbound lane. The posted speed limit was 80 kmph (50 mph). The northbound bound lane was a straight and level. The southbound lane was straight with a 3 percent uphill grade that became level at point of impact. It was early in the afternoon on a weekday and the road was dry and skies were clear. Traffic flow was moderate.

V1, a 1999 Honda Accord 4-door with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane one. V2, a 2005 Chevrolet Malibu 4-door with two occupants, was traveling southbound in lane one. V1 departed its lane on the left and struck V2 head on, right front corner to right front corner. V1 came to final rest approximately 2 meters northwest of point of impact facing east with its back end off the roadway. V2 came to final rest approximately 2 meters north of point of impact facing west, straddling the centerline. The two vehicles came to final rest approximately 3 meters away from each other. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the 1999 Honda Accord, was driven by a 17-year-old female who was transported due to injury. While she was heading northbound, her vehicle drifted (or swerved) for an unknown reason into oncoming traffic so that her right front corner struck V2's right front corner. The driver's attorney refused an interview.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling over the lane line on the left side of travel lane." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as an unknown driver error. No associated factors could be coded to the driver of V1 due to the lack of interview.

V2, the 2005 Chevrolet Malibu, was driven by an 86-year-old female who was transported due to injury. Her passenger died from accident-related injuries two days after the crash. This vehicle was traveling southbound when its right front was struck. The attorney for V2 also refused an interview.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction, over left lane line." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this driver. Due to lack of interview, no associated factors could be coded to this driver.