This crash occurred near a two-lane roadway that is curved to the left. The roadway was dark, with no unnatural lighting, and had an advisory speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash was discover about 8 hours after it happened.

V1 a 1988 Audi 4-door sedan was found off the roadway to the right in the early morning hours, where it had apparently exited the roadway rolled and flipped, contacting multiple trees, before coming to rest on the tires. Both male occupants were found ejected from the vehicle and were pronounced dead at the scene. The crash happened at sometime in the previous night, it is unknown what the exact conditions were at the time of the crash. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver's girlfriend stated that her and another friend were the last ones to see the occupants alive. She stated that they asked to be let out of the vehicle, because the driver was driving recklessly, and had been drinking. She stated that the driver stated he was going to take the car "two-tracking" or into the woods via off road vehicle trails.

Another male occupant that was in the vehicle before the crash had told the police the following information. They went to a gas station and picked up a 30 pack of beer. They went to a bar for a while and then all four of them got back in the car and went “two tracking” on some trails in the woods where they ended up at a buddy's house. They had a few more drinks and then after they all got back in the car the driver was driving reckless down the roadway. The girlfriend asked to be dropped off at home and then he had asked to drive the car. When the driver refused to let him drive, he asked to be dropped off at home. That is the last that he saw of his two friends.

At the scene it was observed that in about the location were the vehicle would have gone off road there were tire marks in the soft shoulder, the tire marks indicated that at the time the vehicle made these marks the tire was freely spinning, and had no yaw indications. Researchers took this to mean that at the time the vehicle left the roadway the driver was not attempting any avoidance maneuvers.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was coded “this vehicle off the edge of the road on the right side”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event is an “unknown performance error”. Associated factors for this crash could be a possible conversation between the driver and passenger, the fact that the driver had been drinking, the fact that the curve was not marked with any reflective markers and because of this the curve might be hard to make out at night.