This two vehicle crash occurred late afternoon during daylight hours. The location was a two-lane, divided, straight, asphalt roadway. The weather was clear and the roads dry. Posted speed limit 56 kmph (35 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Oldsmobile ninety-eight sedan driven by a 24 year-old male was traveling south in the first lane of traffic. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 GMC Suburban SUV driven by a 29 year-old male was traveling south in lane 1, ahead of V1. V2 slowed down and came to a complete stop within lane 1. The driver intended to let a pedestrian pass across the roadway in front of his car. This pedestrian came from the left, crossed in front V2 and stopped in the middle of the lane. The driver of V1 applied his brakes but slid forward until his front impacted the rear of V2. Both vehicles came to rest within lane 1. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 estimated he was following V2 at a distance of 9 meters (27 feet). He had just passed through an intersection and was traveling between 32-48 kmph (20-30 mph). He said an unidentified vehicle was traveling in front of him. This vehicle moved into lane 2 and around V2 to avoid a collision with V2. When he realized V2 was stopped, he applied his brakes but was too close to come to a complete halt without contacting V2. He described how his wheels locked and his tires screeched before sliding into V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related decision error: too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of other road users (specified as: V2 was stopped forward of V1 in travel lane; but a non-contact vehicle blocked V1's view of V2 & he couldn't react in time to stop).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. Critical reason not coded to this vehicle. The pedestrian crossing the roadway illegally in front of V2 caused a traffic restriction for both vehicles.