This is a two-vehicle crash that occurred at noon time in daylight hours at a four-way intersection. The intersection is controlled by traffic lights on colors that were functioning properly at the time of the crash. There are two northbound and two southbound lanes that are separated by continuous left turn lane. There are two eastbound and two westbound lanes that are also separated by a continuous left turn lane. There is a dedicated right turn lane for westbound traffic at the intersection. The speed limit on both roadways is posted 56 KPH (35 MPH). The roadway dry, level asphalt and the sky was clear. Traffic at the time of the crash was moderate and there were no sight line restrictions or obstructions that contributed to this crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Honda Accord sedan driven by a 22 year-old female with one passenger, was making a left turn to travel eastbound after being stopped for about 2-3 seconds. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Ford F-150 4X2 pickup driven by a 22 year-old male, was traveling northbound in the #1 lane. V2 entered the intersection and V1 made a left turn across the path of V2. The front of V2 struck the right rear area of V1. The vehicles came to rest in the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 said that she was stopped in the intersection for about 2-3 seconds and saw V2 approaching northbound in the #1 lane. She said that she saw the right turn blinker of V2 activated and though it was going to turn right. She then began to make a left turn and was struck by V2. She said that she was talking to the right front passenger.

The driver of V2. said that he had just made a left turn to travel northbound in the #1 lane. He was intending to travel straight through the intersection. He said that the light was green and he saw V1 stopped in the intersection to turn left. He said that as he entered the intersection, V1 turned in front of him. He applied the brakes and steered to the right and was unable to stop in time before striking V1. He said that he did not have any blinkers on prior to the crash. He said that after the crash he drove his vehicle to parking lot. V1 was towed from the scene.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: false assumption of others actions. An associate factor for V1 was inattention due to talking to the passenger.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line.. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.