This three-vehicle crash occurred on a four-lane, straight roadway. This roadway consists of two lanes in each direction with a 6% downgrade in the southbound direction. There is a parking lot driveway on the west side of this roadway. There are parking lanes on both sides of the roadway. The speed limit for this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours. It was raining at the time of this crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Audi Allroad, was leaving the parking lot, with the intention of turning left (north). Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Ford F250 pickup, was southbound in lane two. Vehicle three (V3), a 2000 Chevrolet Cavalier, was parked on the east side of the roadway across from the driveway. Two trucks were parked on the west side of the roadway just south of the driveway. The driver of V1 began his turn, noticed V2 traveling toward him and accelerated in an attempt to avoid a crash. The driver of V2 noticed V1 entering the roadway and applied his brakes but slid on the wet roadway. The front of V2 struck the left side of V1. V1 rotated counterclockwise and the back struck the left side of V3. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a sixty-three-year-old male, was traveling from a store to go downtown. He was well rested, healthy and comfortable with his vehicle. He travels on this roadway often. This driver stated that he saw V2 but he thought he had enough time to make the turn.

The driver of V2, a twenty-year-old male, was traveling between work sites. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He drives on this roadway occasionally and was talking on his cell phone. He stated that he thought that V1 would wait to enter the roadway until V2 had passed.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as: other (leaving a driveway). The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed. An associated factor was all tires underinflated 7-10 psi (48-69 kPa).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as: other vehicle encroachment; from driveway, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor was the rear tires underinflated 18 psi (131 kPa).