This two-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours on a weekday afternoon. The crash occurred at the T-intersection of a straight, level, five-lane, two-way, north-south, bituminous roadway and a three-lane, two-way curved, level, east-west, bituminous roadway. The roadways intersect along the east curb of the main roadway. The speed limit on the main roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph); the speed limit of the intersecting side street is 40 kmph (25 mph). At the time of the crash, the roads were dry, there were no adverse weather conditions, and both roadways were free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a Honda Civic of unknown year, was traveling northbound in the first lane of the main roadway, approaching the T-intersection on its right with the intention of turning right into eastbound traffic. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Toyota Corolla 4-dor sedan, was stopped at the T-intersection in the second westbound lane of the side street, waiting at a stop sign for the opportunity to turn left into southbound traffic. As V1 made its turn, V1 lost traction and was unable to maintain its turning lane. V1 crossed the double-yellow stripe of the side street, where the front of V1 impacted the left side of V2. V1 departed the scene, unidentified. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Nothing is known about the driver of V1. A witness at the scene traveling behind V1 indicated that V1 was traveling approximately 64 kmph (40 mph) as it approached the intersection, and the V1 turned abruptly without slowing. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the left side of the travel lane. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related decision error, too fast for curve/turn.

The 43-year-old male driver of V2 was returning to work from a lunch break with three co-workers (the passengers). The driver and passengers were conversing in the car as they were stopped at the stop sign and waiting to turn left. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over left lane line. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.