This three-vehicle crash occurred in the first westbound lane of an eight-lane, positively divided expressway. The highway consisted of four lanes in both eastbound and westbound directions, which were straight and level with a posted speed limit of 105 kmph (65 mph). This crash occurred during nighttime hours with evening traffic congestion. At the time of the crash, there were no adverse weather conditions, and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was westbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Ford Ranger extended cab pickup, was ahead of V1 in the same lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 2000 Mitsubishi Montero compact SUV, was ahead of V2 in the same lane. V3 and V2 decelerated for slower traffic ahead due to stalled vehicles on the paved shoulder to the right. The front of V1 impacted the back of V2. V2 moved ahead and struck the back of V3. All three vehicles came to rest in their original lane. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 23-year-old female, was on her way to a friend's house from home. She stated she was looking at the disabled vehicles on the roadside and when she looked back, she impacted V2. She was well rested, drives this route weekly and is very comfortable with the vehicle. The driver is in good health and doesn't take any medications. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related recognition error, external distraction.

The driver of V2, a 46-year-old female was on her way to a second job from her first job when the crash occurred. She was rested, drives this roadway daily and is comfortable with the vehicle. She stated that she was in fair health, has a history of clinical depression and takes the medication Effexor. The critical precrash event for V2 was coded: Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2.

The driver of V3 was a 31-year-old female, who could not be interviewed. Other reports indicate that V3 was not fully stopped when the crash sequence began. V3 was not involved in the first harmful event.