This single vehicle crash occurred mid-morning during daylight hours at a four-way intersection that is controlled by a traffic light on colors. There are two westbound and two eastbound lanes that are separated by a left turn lane at the intersection. The speed limit on the west/east roadway is posted 52 KPH (35 MPH). the roadway was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic was light at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one(V-1), a 2004 Ford Explorer SUV driven by a 40 year-old male with three passengers was traveling eastbound in the #2 lane approaching the intersection. The vehicle entered the left turn lane and began to make a left turn to travel northbound. The vehicle ran off the right side of the roadway at the northeast corner of the intersection and the front of the vehicle struck a wooden power pole. The vehicle came to rest facing in a northeasterly direction against the power pole. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1.

The driver stated that he had left his house about 5 minutes prior to the crash on his way to church with his wife and kids. He advised that he remembers getting into the left turn lane and beginning to make the left turn but nothing after that until he had already struck the pole. The driver stated that he has a history of Epilepsy and this is the first time it has occurred while he is driving. He advised that he has been to the doctor on several occasions and has been diagnosed with Epilepsy. He advised that his driver's license is revoked for reasons of his medical condition. V 1 was towed from the scene,

The pre event movement for V-1 was coded decelerating in traffic lane. The critical pre crash event was coded this vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection. The critical reason was coded driver related factor-heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act. (The driver has a history of Epilepsy and a seizure occurred just as he was making a left turn. The driver's wife confirmed the history of seizures. The driver was also confused during the interview).