This two-vehicle rear-end crash occurred on a 5-lane asphalt roadway with a two-way center left-turn lane. The eastbound lanes are straight and downhill in the area of the crash. The roadway has numerous business entrances on the eastbound side of the road. The speed limit is 72 kph (45 mph). The crash occurred during late morning with no adverse weather or road conditions present.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Pontiac Grand-Am 4 door sedan with one occupant, was eastbound in the lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Chevrolet Astro mini van with three occupants was also traveling eastbound in lane one behind V1. V1 decelerated with the intention of turning right into a business drive when the rear of the vehicle was struck by the front of V2. V1 had already initiated the right turn and the impact pushed it over the curb into the parking lot of the business. V2 continued forward for a short distance and came to rest in lane one facing east. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. None of the occupants were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 52-year-old female, was turning right into a business drive to have the oil changed in her vehicle. She stated that her turn signal was on as she slowed down almost to a stop to turn right. She did not notice the van behind her until it impacted her from behind.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling-this vehicle decelerating". The critical reason was not coded to V1.

The driver of V2, a 48-year-old female was on her way to take her 2 grandchildren out for lunch. Her 1-year-old grandson was seated in the middle backseat in a child restraint and was upset. The driver turned around to soothe him and when she turned back, V1 had slowed down to turn. The driver stated she was following V1 with a gap of 3 meters (10 feet) and traveling at a speed of 35-40 mph (56-64 kph). At that small a gap distance, the driver did not have time to attempt any evasive maneuvers.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle in lane traveling in same direction while decelerating". The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded as "driver related factor, internal distraction".