This two-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of two five-lane roadways. Both roads are straight and level with no defects. The speed limit on both roads is 56 kmph (35 mph). A functioning traffic control device controls the intersection. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Toyota Previa was northbound in the third lane, a left turn lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 is a Jaguar S-Type was southbound in the second lane. As V1 was attempting a left-turn, its front plane contacted the front plane of V2. V2 continued towards the southwest corner. The front plane of V2 contacted the south edge of the north/south roadway. V1 came to rest facing eastbound in the middle of the intersection. V2 came to rest against the south curb. V1 suffered major damage and was towed. V2 suffered major damage and was also towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-year-old female was taking her 10-year-old daughter to school. The driver was wearing glasses for a myopic condition. The driver takes vitamins and calcium supplements. This driver exercises every day by walking around the block. During the inspection, the interior of the vehicle was found covered in breakfast. The driver denied eating or reaching for the breakfast while driving. The driver stated she was waiting in the middle of the intersection waiting for approaching traffic. She stated the other vehicle ran the red light as she turned. She expected the other driver to yield the right-of-way. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of V2, a sixteen-year-old male was traveling with two teenage passengers. The driver was traveling to school from his home. The driver intended to stop at a coffee shop prior to arriving at school. The driver was excited about his midterms that morning. The midterms were on his mind. The driver has only had his license for one month. He has a restriction on his license that forbids him from transporting anyone under the age of 20 years. The driver stated his light turned yellow as he entered the intersection. A witness on the PAR indicated that this vehicle sped up when the light turned yellow. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction- over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.