This two-vehicle crash occurred on a straight, level roadway in a three-legged intersection. The north/south roadway is undivided and consists of two lanes in each direction. The speed limit on this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). The east/west roadway is on the west side of the north/south roadway. The roadways were wet at the time of the crash. It was dark with streetlights on at the time of the crash and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Mitsubishi Montero, was northbound in lane two and stopped to wait for traffic to clear to turn left at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 Ford F150 pickup, was northbound in lane two. A non-contact vehicle was behind V1 and came to a stop when V1 stopped. There were non-contact vehicles northbound in lane one. The driver of V2 noticed V1 and the non-contact vehicle stop and applied the brakes and steered left, traveling (skidding longitudinally) into southbound lane two. V1 began to turn left and the left side was struck by the front of V2. V1 rotated counterclockwise and traveled off the northwest corner and the left side struck a fire hydrant. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-seven-year-old female, was traveling from an eye appointment to her home. She was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle. She drives this route daily. This driver stated that she was not comfortable driving on wet roads and looked in her rearview mirror to check to see if traffic behind her was stopping when she stopped and had to wait for traffic to clear.

The driver of V2, an eighteen-year-old male, was traveling from his home to a friend's house. He was well rested, healthy and familiar with his vehicle. He travels on this roadway daily. He stated that he "did not look far enough ahead."

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from adjacent lane (same direction) - over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was "not coded to this vehicle."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; other vehicle stopped." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as " driver related factor; too fast for conditions - wet roads." An associated factor was this driver's failure to look far enough ahead.