This two-vehicle crash occurred in a controlled intersection with a pedestrian signal. The east/west road is four-lanes with a negative grade for eastbound traffic. This road is straight with no defects. The north/south road is a four-lane road with bike lanes. This road is straight and level. Both roadways have a posted speed limit of 48 mkph (30 mph). This crash occurred during evening hours with a light rain and wet roads.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Chevrolet S-10 Blazer, was eastbound in the second lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Honda Civic Coupe, was northbound in the second lane. Both vehicles approached the intersection at roughly the same time. V2 was impacted on the left by the front of V1. The impact caused both V1 and V2 to rotate clockwise. As V1 was rotating the right rear tire tripped the vehicle over causing it to roll two-quarter turns. V1 came to rest on the top facing southwest. V2 continued northeast and the right rear tire impacted the curb and then the back plane impacted a pole. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-six year old female, stated she didn't see anyone approaching the intersection or the red light. This driver was fatigued due to a long day of work and school. This is a new route for her so it is her first time on the roadway. This driver stated that she was lost in thought as she drove. This driver had been driving for about thirteen minutes at the time of the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over [passing through] intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: inattention.

The driver of V2, a twenty-five year old male, was not interviewed. There is no known pre-crash information on this driver. The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.