The crash occurred on a secondary arterial road where it ran east/west through a residential area. The road was a two way, two-lane road that was only divided by a double yellow painted stripe. The road was straight if eastbound with a curve left (north) in the area of the crash. There were 2 warning signs for eastbound traffic on the road. One (the first) indicated curvy road ahead, and the second stated hidden driveways with an advisory speed of 32kph/20mph. The curves radius was measured to be 296 meters. The road was level with no measurable super elevation. Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight and dry at mid afternoon on a weekday. The posted speed limit was 64kph/40mph.

V1 was a 2004 Volvo XC90 (SUV) traveling east on the arterial road when while the driver was talking on the phone V1 departed the right side of the road, struck a culvert/driveway edge with the undercarriage, traveled across the driveway and struck a large tree with the front of the vehicle. The Volvo was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

V1 was driven by a twenty four year old belted female who was on the phone with her husband at the time of the crash. She and her two minor aged passengers were transported to a local trauma center due to possible injuries. The drivers' statements in the interview were suspect based on the fact that her employer (the 2 children's' mother) was present at the interview.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason was an internal distraction (phone conversation). The driver was also coded as inattentive, thought focus unknown. She was also coded as having a forward exterior factor being approaching traffic. While the researcher believes she may have been concerned about the traffic it was not believed (based on drivers other statements, demeanor, etc..) to have crowded V1 from the road. The driver was coded as having poor directional control and not having enough experience with an SUV.