This single vehicle crash occurred on a three-lane interstate where an on-ramp enters the roadway. The east/west highway is divided, dry, level, concrete, and consists of three lanes. An asphalt shoulder borders the north edge of the highway. The south edge is bordered by an asphalt median. South of the south median exists a concrete center divider that separates the westbound lanes from the eastbound lanes. The on-ramp is separated from the highway by a raised concrete gore point. The on-ramp is dry, concrete, and consists of one lane at the area of impact. The on-ramp has a downgrade slope. The south edge of the on-ramp is bordered by an asphalt median. An asphalt shoulder and a raised asphalt curb border the north edge of the on-ramp. The highway has a sign on the raised concrete gore point that warns of the merging on-ramp. The highway is designated a 104 kmph (65 mph) zone. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Toyota Echo was westbound in the second lane. As V1 was traveling, the vehicle departed the travel lane to its right and traveled towards the raised concrete gore. V1 departed the right side of the roadway into the gore area and the front plane of vehicle one contacted the raised concrete gore as it proceeded unto the on-ramp lane. V1 partially drove up the adjacent hillside and proceeded to roll unto its left plane. V1 came to rest on its roof blocking the on-ramp lane. V1 suffered rollover damage and was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 100 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1, a nineteen-year-old male was commuting to work from his home. Unfortunately, the driver could not be located for an interview. The driver's father refused to give any information regarding his son. The driver stated in the police report that he could not recall any of the events leading to the collision. The driver stated it was possible he lost consciousness while driving.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling: off the edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded as a driver related factor: unknown critical non-performance.