This two-vehicle crash occurred during daylight hours in a four-way, traffic tri-signal-controlled intersection. The east/west roadway is divided by a curbed median. The westbound lanes are level, right-curved and consist of two through lanes, a right-turn only lane and a left-turn only lane. The eastbound lanes are level, straight and consist of two through lanes and a left-turn only lane. The speed limit on this roadway is 64 kmph (40 mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1990 Chevrolet Cavalier coupe, was westbound in lane three with the intention of going straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Oldsmobile Alero coupe, was eastbound in lane three, intending to turn left at the intersection. As V2 turned left, the front struck the left side of V1. V1 rotated counterclockwise as it continued traveling west and the back right wheel struck the north curb. V1 came to rest partially in westbound lane one and partly on the roadside, facing southeast. V2 came to rest in the intersection, facing east. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-seven-year-old male, was traveling with a twenty-eight-year-old female passenger, from his home to his cousin's home. He was very familiar with his route and his vehicle and was well rested at the time of the crash.

The driver of V2, a nineteen-year-old male, was traveling from his home to a park to play Frisbee football. He was well rested and familiar with his route and his vehicle. He was listening to the radio and looking at the traffic signal and his intended path to the northbound lanes. He noticed V1 and braked when he realized that he had insufficient clearance to complete his turn before V1 reached the intersection, but was unable to avoid the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason not coded to this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed.