This two-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours on a weekday. The crash occurred at the intersection of a north-south roadway and an east-west roadway. Both roadways are straight, level, two-lane, two-way, bituminous roads, and the speed limit is 40 kmph (25 mph) in all directions. Northbound and southbound traffic are controlled by stop signs at the intersection, Eastbound and Westbound traffic have no controls. At the time of the collision, there were no adverse weather conditions, and the roadway was free of defects.

Vehicle one (V1) was a hit-and-run vehicle of unknown make, model, or type. V1 was traveling southbound in the first lane, approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. Vehicle two (V2), a 1992 Chevrolet S10 Blazer 4-door SUV, was traveling westbound in the first lane, and approaching the intersection with the intention of passing straight through. In the intersection, the front of V1 impacted the left side of V2. Both vehicles deflected southwest to final rest. V1 departed the scene, unidentified. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Nothing is known about the driver of V1. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: This vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the event was attributed to V1, and was coded: Driver-related decision error, illegal manuever. According to the driver of V2, V1 did not stop for the stop sign.

The 49-year-old male driver of V2 was traveling with his 8-year-old daughter, on his way to drop her off at school. The driver reported that he saw V1 approaching, but assumed that V1 would stop at the stop sign. The driver of V2 reported that he suffers from insomnia and normally sleeps only four hours per night. He was up late the previous night cleaning his vehicle. The critical precrash event for V1 was coded: Other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the event was not attributed to V2, although associative factors of false assumption and fatigue were attributed to the driver of V2.