This three-vehicle crash occurred on a two-way, four-lane road with a right hand turn lane after the bridge deck. The pre-crash roadway for both vehicles is level and bituminous paving with the crash occurring at the intersecting street in lane one. The roadway has a speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1989 Ford Ranger was southbound in the first lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Toyota Camry was southbound ahead of V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 2003 Saturn Vue, was southbound ahead of V2. V3 came to a stop to allow a pedestrian to cross. V2 was slowing when the front of V1 impacted the rear of V2. The front of V2 then impacted the rear of V3. V2 was towed due to damage. V1 and V3 were driven from scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a fifty-five year old male, was on his way to work at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about twenty minutes at the time of the crash. This driver indicated that he had stayed at breakfast longer than he wanted to and was running late for work. As he crossed the bridge he looked down at something inside his vehicle and when he looked up he could not stop to avoid the collision. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a weekly basis.

The driver of V2, a seventeen-year-old female, was heading home from church at the time of the crash. This driver had been driving for about ten minutes at the time of the crash. This driver stated that she slowed for the vehicle in front of her and the next thing she knew she was impacted. This driver drives this vehicle on a daily basis and over this road on a weekly basis.

The driver of V3, a thirty-six year old female, was not interviewed. It is known from the police report that this driver had stopped to let a pedestrian cross in front of her.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was attributed to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.