This two vehicle crash occurred during mid-morning daylight hours on a eight-lane, north-south, divided, two-way roadway near the intersection of a four-lane undivided two-way roadway. The southbound eight-lane roadway was curved left with a posted speed of 48 kmph (30 mph). There was a +3.3% grade in the southbound direction and the right lane had a sign for right-turn-only prior to the intersection. The four-lane undivided intersecting roadway was straight, level and dry and as it approached the intersection it curved to the right. The road was dry and the sky was clear. Lane use control signs were posted prior to the intersection. Traffic flow was moderate.

Vehicle one (V 1), a 1998 Pontiac Grand Prix sedan driven by a 23 year-old male with one passenger was traveling northbound in lane one, an exit lane approaching an intersection at a high rate of speed. Vehicle two (V 2), a 2000 Ford Crown Victoria Police Interceptor driven by a 36 year-old male was traveling southbound in lane one of the four-lane intersecting roadway approaching the intersection in the portion of the roadway that just started to curve to the right. Police Reported Travel Speed is 129 kmph for V1 and 129 kmph for V2.

V 1 took his exit off the roadway and departed the left side of the exit lane into a gore area. The driver of V1 managed to re-enter the exit lane of the off ramp from the left and then lost control and began skidding with counterclockwise rotation. V1 then departed the exit lane to the left in a counter clockwise yaw. V1 then entered the intersecting roadway V2 was traveling on on the left side of the roadway, crossed three lanes of travel and the right side of the V1 impacted with the front of V 2. After impact, V 1 rotated clockwise and its right side struck the left side of V 2. The front of V 1 struck a pole off the right side of the roadway roadway to the west where it came to rest facing northwest. V 2 rotated clockwise and was struck on the left side by the right side of V 1. V 2 departed the roadway and came to rest facing west.

The driver of V 1 was killed in the collision. The passenger in the V 1 advised that they were on their way out of town when a Constable attempted to pull them over. The driver refused to stop and attempted to flee. She advised that the driver had just purchased and used crack prior to the chase. She also stated that prior to and during the pursuit, she and the driver were arguing. She did not recall the collision. She indicated the driver had not slept in the past 24 hours, so fatigue was considered a factor for this driver.

The pre-crash event for V1 was coded "this vehicle control loss, traveling too fast for conditions." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was driver related error of aggressive driving. Associated factors for V 1, speeding, drugs. and fatigue.

The pre-crash event for V2 was coded "other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line." Critical reason not coded to this vehicle.