This two-vehicle crash occurred at a "T" type intersection of a seven-lane roadway. The eastbound roadway is level and curves right. The exit roadway is straight and level. Both roadways are asphalt constructed. The intersection is controlled with traffic control lights with pedestrian signal for all directions of travel. The speed limit for the area is 64 kph (40 mph). The crash occurred during darkness with artificial lighting.

Vehicle one, a 1997 Ford F-150 pickup was eastbound in the second lane. Vehicle two, a 2004 Oldsmobile Alero was stopped at the light facing north. Vehicle two began turning left when the front of vehicle one struck its left side. Vehicle one came to a controlled stop on the right shoulder of the eastbound roadway just passed the intersection. After impact, vehicle two rotated counter-clockwise and came to rest in the middle of the intersection facing south. Vehicle one was driven from the scene. Vehicle two was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a 5fifty-four year old female was on her way home from another town 25 miles away where she had been on a business day trip for her family-owned business. She is in charge of the business and works 6 days a week between 8 1/2 to 10 1/2 hours each day. She stated her normal sleep pattern is from midnight to 7:00 am each night. During this trip, a truck had been following her closely the entire way and she had been nervous and frightened by it and bothered by its headlight glare. As she entered the edge of town, the truck turned off and she began to relax more. She stated she had yawned several times and was tired and sleepy. Just prior to reaching the intersection, she yawned and does not remember anything after that. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The driver of vehicle two, a thirty-year-old female had just picked up her boyfriend from work and was on her way home. This driver did not see the other vehicle due to a vehicle being stopped in the first eastbound lane. This driver drives this vehicle daily and over this road on a daily basis.

The critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as “this vehicle traveling: crossing over [passing through] intersection”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle one was coded as “driver related factor: sleeping, that is, actually asleep”. The critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “this vehicle traveling: turning left at intersection”. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for vehicle two was coded as “not coded to this vehicle”.