This three-vehicle crash occurred in the westbound lane of a five-lane divided roadway. There were two westbound lanes with one left turn lane, and two eastbound lanes. The westbound and eastbound lanes had parking lanes to the right of each of them and they were divided by a wide slightly raised concrete median. The southbound roadway was one single lane. The roadways were level and dry and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit was 40 kmph (25 mph) for all directions. Signalized traffic control devices controlled all points of the intersection. The crash occurred in the early afternoon daylight hours and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.

Vehicle one, a 1999 Ford Crown Victoria, was traveling westbound in lane two when it contacted with its front the right side of vehicle two, a 1994 Chrysler LHS, traveling eastbound attempting to make a u-turn. After the initial impact with vehicle two, vehicle one rotated slightly clockwise continuing to travel westward and contacted with its left front the rear of vehicle three, a 1996 Ford 350 Van, legally parked on the north side curb edge where it came to final rest with its left front on the rear of vehicle three and the right front tire on the curb edge. The impact caused the left front tire of vehicle one to blow out. Vehicle two after the initial impact rotated counter-clockwise traveled a few feet westward where it came to final rest facing westward. The right front tire of vehicle two blew out as a result of the impact. Vehicle one was towed due to disabling damages. Vehicle two damages were also severe and it was towed. According to both drivers there weren't any view obstructions. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a 35-year old male, said he was traveling westbound in lane two. He just picked up a passenger about 20 minutes ago and had only traveled a few miles before the crash. He approached the busy intersection and as he traveled through it vehicle two was making an illegal u-turn and his vehicle struck the right side of it. He was on duty as a cab driver. He said he works a lot of hours to support his family, a total of 56 hours the past week. He slept eight hours in the past 24-hours. His work hours rotate from day to night, however, he said he is not tired or fatigue. He was talking to his passenger and dialing his cell phone during the crash and said he was aware of the roadway and his driving. He felt he was driving safely. He slammed on his brakes, but it was too late the other vehicle was traveling pretty fast. He was not injured. He said he was traveling approximately 40 kmph (25mph).

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V1 is “other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction, over left lane line”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors for this driver include: talking to the passenger, rotating shifts, day and night, working 56 hours in the past seven days, possible fatigue, talking and dialing a handheld cell phone, possible distraction.

The driver of Vehicle two, a 20-year old male, said he was traveling eastbound in lane two when he decided to make a u-turn at the intersection. There was no turn lane on this eastbound roadway. As he progressed into his u-turn he noticed vehicle one traveling westbound in the opposite direction. However, thought Vehicle one would yield and allow him to continue with his u-turn. At that point, the side of his vehicle was contacted by the front of vehicle two. Preceding the crash he admits he was listening and adjusting the radio. But this did not distract his driving, he said. His license was suspended at the time of the crash and the vehicle emission and inspection stickers were expired. He just wanted to run to the store and back home. He was given a citation for these offenses. He's been a license driver for three years and he rarely travels on this roadway. He was not injured.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V2 is “other - this vehicle making a U-turn”. The Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle “false assumption of other's actions”. Associated factors for this driver include: driving with suspended license, and expired emission/ inspection stickers. Driving while listening and adjusting the radio. An inexperience driver, he's been a license driver for three years only. He is unfamiliar with the roadway, he rarely travels on it. Proceeding with insufficient clearance.