Case Summary 2007-014

The crash occurred on a bituminous two lane undivided roadway with a posted speed limit of 56 KPH (35 mph). The roadway curved to the right with a radius of curvature of 87 meters and a superelevation of 2.8%. The roadway had a grade of 4.7%. There was a black on yellow curve warning sign with a suggested speed limit of 40 KPH (25 mph). The weather was cloudy, the roadway dry and it was daylight at the time of this early afternoon weekday crash. Traffic flow was normal for that time of day. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

V1, a 1992 Buick Century, was traveling north on the roadway negotiating the curve to the left. V1 drove off the right side of the roadway and struck a 20 cm diameter pole with its front. V1 continued back onto the roadway to the left, crossed over both north and southbound lanes and off the left side of the roadway. V1 climbed a steep earth embankment, struck a small sapling and a 25 cm diameter tree with its front. V1 continued down the embankment re-entered the roadway to the right, crossed the south and northbound lanes and went off the right side of the roadway. V1 continued along a sloped earth embankment and came to rest facing in a northerly direction. V1 was towed due to damage.

The Buick Century (V1) was driven by a belted 38-year-old female who was transported, treated and released for a complaint of pain to her neck and back. No further information was obtained as the driver could not be contacted or located. She had stated to the police that she “blacked out”. Father of the driver at the scene indicated that she may have “blacked out”, that she was a reformed drug addict and had been clean for several years.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was an unknown type of driver error. This was chosen because it could not be determined if driver had “blacked out”, may have been distracted by eating a candy bar, possibly changing a CD or traveling to fast for the curve or turn. Police did not consider either alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no tests.