This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. On the north side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a painted median and the southbound traffic lanes consist of a right-turn lane, three through lanes, and two left-turn lanes. This roadway is straight, uphill in the southbound direction, and has a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). On the west side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a curbed median and the eastbound traffic lanes consist of a right-turn lane, two through lanes, and two left-turn lanes. This roadway is straight and level, and has a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred in the early afternoon on a weekend. It was raining lightly at the time and the roadway was wet. Traffic flow was moderate.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Mitsubishi Lancer with one occupant, was southbound in lane four, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Ford F-150 supercab-styleside pickup with one occupant, was stopped at the intersection, eastbound in lane five. The traffic signal indicated a green for eastbound traffic and the driver of V2 proceeded to make a left turn. V1 proceeded into the intersection at the same time. The driver of V1 applied the brakes and tried to steer to the right, but the front of V1 impacted the left side of V2. V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to final rest facing south-southeast in the middle of the intersection. V2 rotated clockwise and came to final rest facing southeast in the middle of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1 and 80 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-year-old female, was driving from her home to work. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route daily. She is in good health and takes no medications. She was in a hurry because she was late for work and explained that she didn't see that the light was red until she had entered the intersection.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). Traveling too fast for conditions due to being late for work was coded as an associative factor.

The driver of V2, a forty-eight-year-old male, was driving from his house to the bank. He was well rested very comfortable with his vehicle. He drives this route daily. He has Type 2 diabetes, high cholesterol, and high blood pressure and takes Lisinopril, Simvastatin, Glyubride, and Prozac on a regular basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.