The crash occurred in the center of a four-way intersection composed of a four-lane north/southbound roadway, and a five-lane east/westbound roadway. All roadways were bituminous with posted speed limits of 72 kmph (45 mph). The southbound and westbound roadways had uphill grades greater then 2 percent. The intersection was controlled by traffic lights with pedestrian signals. It was afternoon on a weekday. The roads were dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was congested.

V1, a 2005 Chevrolet Suburban unmarked police vehicle with one occupant, was traveling west with its emergency lights engaged when it entered the intersection after coming to a stop. V2, a 2002 Mercedes C240 with three occupants, was traveling north with the intention of turning left at the intersection. V1's front contacted V2's left side as both vehicles entered the intersection. Neither vehicle attempted an avoidance maneuver. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, driven by a 36-year-old male who reported no injuries, stated that he was responding to an emergency call when he approached the intersection. He came to a complete stop and then proceeded through the intersection where V1 struck V2 in the left side. V1 made no avoidance maneuver.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling-crossing over (passing through) intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "inadequate surveillance". An associated factor of “in a hurry” was coded because he was rushing to an emergency call.

The Driver of V2, a 17-year-old female, reported bleeding to the head and had to be extricated from the vehicle. The occupants of V2, an 18-year-old male and an 11-year-old female, reported complaints of pain. All occupants were transported to the hospital. Driver stated that she was starting to turn left when she observed V1 enter the intersection. V2 was struck by V1 on the left side. V2 made no avoidance maneuver. V2's driver declined to be interviewed until after all court proceedings had been completed. All V2 information compiled from on-scene personnel and official documents.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "this vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection". No Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. The only associated factor assigned was "other driver related experience factors-inexperienced driver".