This crash occurred on the southbound lanes of the interstate. There were two lanes of travel. The roadway was straight, dry concrete. The speed was posted at 113 kmph (70 mph). The southbound lanes were separated from the northbound lanes by a grass median and guardrail barrier. The crash occurred on a weekend afternoon. The weather was cloudy and cold.

V1, a 1993 Buick Park Avenue 4-door sedan, was traveling south in lane #1 when it drifted to the left over the yellow dashed line. The driver then overcorrected to the right, causing the vehicle to skid off the right side of the roadway while rotating clockwise. The vehicle slid down an embankment and struck a tree with the left front area of the vehicle. The vehicle then rolled one-quarter roll upward to contact another tree with the right rear roof and right upper quarter panel area. The vehicle then came to final rest on all four tires facing back to the northeast. The driver and his passenger were transported to a local trauma facility due to injuries. The vehicle was towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The 39-year-old male that drove the vehicle was not available to be interviewed because he was out of the state looking for work. His wife who was the passenger in the vehicle gave the interview. She stated they had gone to their son's to visit and were on their way back home at the time of the crash. She stated that she had a headache and had closed her eyes. She stated she opened them to reach for something and noticed they were traveling off the right side of the roadway. She stated she screamed her husband's name and then they hit the tree and she was knocked out after that. She stated her husband told her he had drifted across the yellow dashed line and as he steered back into his lane he had overcorrected, causing the vehicle to travel off the roadway.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was coded this vehicle control loss due to traveling too fast for conditions. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded overcompensation, a driver related factor. The associated factors coded to this driver include fatigue due to sleeping pattern, heroin use one hour prior to the crash (this was on the medical report and the passenger also stated this), inattention due to financial problems (job loss), traveling too fast, and emotional upset.