This two vehicle nighttime collision occurred on an urban arterial roadway. In the area of the crash the roadway has five lanes of travel. Two are for northbound traffic and two are for southbound traffic with a center lane which is a left turn lane for northbound travel and a two way- left turn lane for southbound travel. Traffic flow was controlled by on-colors traffic signal. The road is straight, level and paved with asphalt. The speed limit for the roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). At the time of the crash there was a light rain and the roadway was wet.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Mercedes Benz C230 sedan driven by a twenty one (21) year old male, was turning west from the left turn lane of the northbound lanes. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Ford F150 pickup truck driven by a twenty four (24) year old male was heading southbound in lane one. V2 was more than likely going faster than the speed limit in order to clear the intersection on the yellow light. V1 began his left turn on the yellow light as well. Neither driver was aware of the others presence until the front of V2 had impacted V1 on the right passenger side. This put V1 into a clockwise spin and took him to final rest on with the right side tires on the sidewalk facing east. V2 came to final rest through the impact still facing south. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The driver of V1 was transported due to injuries, while the driver of V2 was not transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look but did not see).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle. An associative factor coded to V2 was aggressive driving/speeding and traveling too fast for conditions.