The crash occurred in signalized intersection of two roadways. The north/south roadway was two-way with two lanes of travel in each direction and a turning lane. The east/west roadway was two-way with one lane in each direction. It was dark and lighted and clear with no adverse conditions. The roadway was straight, level, dry, and had a speed limit of 48kmph (30mph). It was the evening hours of a weekday, and traffic conditions were normal.

V1, a 2002 Hyundai Elantra five door hatchback, was traveling northbound in lane two. V2, a 2004 Toyota Corolla four door, was traveling eastbound in lane one. At the intersection, the front of V1 impacted the right side of V2, and then the left side of V1 contacted the right side of V2. Both vehicles came to a final rest in the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Hyundai Elantra, was driven by a 33 year-old female who reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. The driver stated to the Police that V2 ran the red light and impacting her vehicle.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this driver. The possible associated factors were coded unknown because no interview was obtained.

V2, the Toyota Corolla, was driven by a 25 year-old female who reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. The driver advised that she was traveling home from her boyfriend's house, and while crossing the intersection with a green light, the crash occurred. She stated to the Police that her slippers slipped off her foot causing her to impact V1.

A witness who was driving directly behind V1 stated that V2 went through a steady red light at the intersection, and was speeding.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V2 was "this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical event was a driver related factor, "internal distraction". An associated factor coded to the driver was inadequate surveillance, failed to look either side ahead. An illegal maneuver was also coded as an associated factor, and speeding was coded as a driver's aggressive acts. The driver also stated that she experienced work related stress.