Case 2007-124

The crash occurred in the westbound lanes of a four-lane roadway divided by a grassy median. There were two lanes in each direction. The asphalt road was level and dry with a slight curve to the left (radius of curvature: 2452m and no super-elevation). The posted speed limit was 89kph/55mph. The crash happened on a weekday during the morning rush hour, under clear skies and with light traffic flow. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

V1, a 1984 Porsche 944 two-door with one occupant was traveling westbound in lane two. The vehicle drove off the roadway onto the grass median and traveled on it for about 55m before it reentered the westbound lanes. The vehicle then began to rotate in a clockwise direction back across both lanes. It then departed the right side of the road yawing sideways across a gravel driveway. As it continued traveling westbound it rolled over to the left two one-quarter turns and came to rest on its top facing north approximately 12m north of the roadway and 110m from where it originally departed the left side of the roadway.

V1, the Porsche 944, was driven by a 16-year old male who was coded for non-incapacitating injury but was not transported to a hospital. The driver, with his parents present, told me that he had been driving from home to school at about 97kph/60mph. He said he was not talking on his cell phone but admitted that he had dropped it onto the driver's side floorboard just in front of his seat. He said he reached and looked down to retrieve it and felt the vehicle depart the road onto the median to his left. He said he braked (lock-up unknown) and tried steering right to bring the vehicle back onto the road. He added that he overcompensated and lost control as the vehicle rotated and skidded across the road and then off again on the right side where it then rolled over.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver related, overcompensation error. Associated factors were assigned to D1 for an internal distraction (he admitted looking and reaching down for the dropped phone), other non-driving activity (reaching for the phone); poor directional control, and driver inexperience, since he had only been driving for about a year.