The crash occurred on an access ramp that ran from west to south, from a side road to a primary arterial. There was only one lane to the ramp with a speed limit of 48kph (30mph). The ramp was curved to the right with a measured radius of 148m. It was super-elevated to 4.4%. There were no traffic controls. Conditions at the time were daylight and dry on a weekday around mid afternoon. Traffic was relatively light.

V1 was a 1999 Acura 3.5RL traveling on the ramp when it s front hit the back of V2, a 1995 Toyota 4-Runner that had stopped on the ramp due to a non contact vehicle in front of it stopping to apparently merge. Both vehicles came to rest within a meter of impact. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a twenty-year old belted male who was not injured in the crash. He was on his way from school to pickup another vehicle of his at a repair shop.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "other vehicle in lane stopped". The Critical Reason was "external distraction". The driver was coded as fatigued due to his recent lack of sleep in combination with the fact that he was a full time college student. The driver was coded (exterior factor) as looking left at approaching traffic that was also somewhat aft of his position. Inadequate surveillance was coded as an associated factor. The traffic flow interruption of a non-contact vehicle stopping on the ramp when not necessary as the ramp continues as a lane.

V2 was driven by a belted thirty-seven year old male who was transported due to possible injury to an area hospital. His right front female passenger was restrained and not injured.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other vehicle in lane traveling the same direction with a higher speed". The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The driver was taking a potent painkiller to alleviate pain from a recent neck/back surgery. The traffic flow interruption of a non-contact vehicle stopping on the ramp when not necessary as the ramp continues as a lane was also coded to this vehicle.