The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. The southbound roadway was one-way with two lanes of travel. The east/west roadway was a two-way divided roadway with three lanes of travel in each direction and had a downhill grade measurement of 3 percent. Both roadways were straight and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 48kmph (30mph). The intersection was controlled by traffic signals. It was an early morning on a weekend and the road was dry and the sky was clear.

V1, a 2000 Chrysler Voyager minivan with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane three. V2, a 1999 Ford Windstar minivan with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane one. At the intersection, the front of V1 impacted the right front side of V2. V2 spun counterclockwise and its right/rear wheel contacted a curb and came to a final rest. V1 came to a final rest east of the intersection in lane three. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Chrysler Voyager, was driven by a 49 year-old male who reported non-incapacitating injuries and was transported to a hospital. He stated that he was going home from his finance's house. He advised that it was a steady green light for as far as he could see when V2 ran the steady red light. He attempted to steer right but was unable to avoid the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "Other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to V1. An associated factor coded to the driver was a sightline restriction that was caused by a building on the corner. Other possible associated factors were coded unknown because only a partial interview was obtained.

V2, the Ford Windstar, was driven by a 43 year-old male who reported non-incapacitating injuries and was transported to a medical facility. He advised that he was in a hurry to get to work and while going straight, the lights turned red just before he went through. He reported that he was going to work from home at the time.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "This vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical event was coded as a driver related factor, illegal maneuver. Associated factors coded to the driver include inadequate surveillance, an illegal maneuver, work stress, being in a hurry due to being late for the start of work, and a sightline restriction caused by a building on the corner.