This two-vehicle crash occurred on the southbound lanes of a fully controlled positive-divided major highway. There were three southbound lanes and three northbound lanes divided by a raised metal guardrail. There were wide shoulder areas and raised rumble strips on the right sides of both travel directions nearest the shoulder areas. Beyond this southbound shoulder was a grass and dirt covered uphill slope. There were no signalized traffic control devices on this fully controlled highway. The bituminous covered roadway was level, straight, and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit was 80 kmph (50 mph). The crash occurred on a weekend during the early morning daylight hours. The roadway was free of any noticeable defects and the traffic flow was normally light at this early morning hour.

Vehicle one, 1997 Mercury Grand Marquis 4-door sedan, was traveling southbound in lane two when it contacted with its right front the left rear of vehicle two, a 2003 Ford E250 large van, also traveling southbound in lane two on the three lane roadway. After the initial impact, V2 spun clockwise out of control and entered lane one where it tripped over one quarter turn onto its left side. V2 continued sliding and rotating clockwise on its side 270 degrees past lane one onto the shoulder area where it came in contact with the uphill slope to final rest facing eastward. V1, after the initial impact, rotated slightly clockwise traveling several feet and crossed over lane one and entered the shoulder area where it came to final rest facing south against the uphill grassy slope. V2 suffered severe damages and it was towed from the scene. V1 damages were moderate and it was not towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

V1 was driven by a 23-year old male, with six years driving experience, he said he was traveling southbound in lane two on his way home from visiting his girlfriend feeling really tired. He only traveled four miles when he noticed V2 being contacted by an unknown vehicle. V2 began to swerve and he hit the rear of V2, and V2 flipped over. The rest is not clear, he said. He was fatigued when he woke up and at the start of the trip: he only slept 3-hours the previous night not his normal 8-hours. He was going home to finish sleeping and get some more rest. When asked if he could have closed his eyes for a second, he said possibly, I'm really tired. The driver was also asked was he by any chance attempting to change lanes and, he answered no. He was familiar with this roadway he travels on it weekly. The driver seemed reluctant towards answering questions during the interview and wasn't sure about the sequence of events leading up to and during the crash. He was very disappointed: he'd had the vehicle for only a year and was trying to sell it.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V1 is: "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with lower steady speed". The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event is: "sleeping, that is actually asleep". Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle include: fatigue, the driver said he was fatigue at the start of this trip; he only slept 3-hours the previous night not his normal 8-hours, traveling too fast, reason unknown.

V2 was driven by a 52-year old male, could not be reached for an interview. Several attempts to contact the driver proved to be unsuccessful. What is known about the driver is that he was transported to the hospital with non-life threatening injuries.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V2 is: "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed". The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associated factors coded to the driver or vehicle because there was no interview.

Note: The PAR indicated that V2 was hit by a phantom vehicle before he was hit by V1 and that V2 hit the light pole and knocked it down. There was no evidence of another vehicle making contact with V2 prior to its contact with V1. There was evidence of rust on the bolts inside the base area of the light pole indicating prior exposure also, a highway repair engineer stated the pole was dislocated previously and was listed on his logbook for repair. Most of the information listed on the PAR was obtain from the driver of V1.