The crash occurred on an undivided north/south 5-lane roadway at a four-way intersection with another undivided roadway. In the southbound approach to the intersection, there were three lanes southbound and two lanes northbound. Lane three was a left turn-only lane. Conditions were clear and dry on a weekday night. The roadway was straight and level. The posted speed was 56 kmph (35 mph).

V1 was a 1996 Mercury Cougar 2-door coupe that was traveling southbound in lane three. The driver was a 38-year-old man who was on his way home from work. He was driving along when he hit the back of V2, a 2005 Honda Accord 4-door sedan that was stopped at the red light. The driver of V2 was a 33-year-old male who was on his way to meet friends for dinner. He was stopped at the red light waiting to make a left hand turn when he was hit from behind. V1 was towed due to damages and the driver of V1 was cited for the crash. He was also arrested for DUI. He stated that he had five drinks and failed an on-scene sobriety test. V2, the Honda Accord, was not towed due to damages. No one was injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

The driver of V1 stated that he had been looking for his water bottle in the middle console and didn't realize how close he was to V2 that was stopped at the red light. He looked up and hit the brakes but was unable to stop in time. The driver of V1 asked the driver of V2 not to call the police as he had been drinking and did not want to get in trouble. While being interviewed, he was slurring his speech and having trouble standing up.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was another vehicle in lane stopped. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was a driver error, an internal distraction as he said he was focused on the middle console trying to reach for his water bottle. One associated factor coded to the driver of V1 was alcohol use, as he admitted to having five drinks that evening. He was also arrested for DUI and did not pass a sobriety test. Another associated factor was the medication he was taking. He was taking Xanax, an anti-anxiety medication, along with medications for acid reflux and high blood pressure. He was cited for the crash.

V2 was stopped in lane three waiting for the green light when he was hit from behind. He was pushed forward and claimed that V1 was going faster then he stated in the interview. There was nothing he could do, as he didn't even see V1 coming. He was not injured and his vehicle was not towed.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was another vehicle in lane traveling at a higher rate of speed. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The driver of V2 was not thought to have contributed to the crash and there were no associated factors coded to him.