This crash occurred on a weekend morning with rainy overcast skies. The crash occurred at an intersection with properly working traffic controls. There were four lanes of travel. There were two in each direction. The speed was posted at 56 KMPH (35 MPH). The roadway was straight, level, wet asphalt.

As vehicle #1 a 2002 Ford Focus (V1) traveled east in lane two the driver was in thought about were an up coming intersection was to turn left to travel home. As the driver approached the intersection she noted the light was red and crossed the path of a 1996 Ford Taurus (V2). V2 was in lane two approaching the intersection on a green light, the driver of V2 could not avoid the eastbound vehicle contacting the left front fender and drivers door area, pushing the vehicle to the side to block the northbound lanes of travel. V2 rotated counter clockwise to face east in lane one for final rest. The driver of V1 refused transport to a local ER but was transported by police after the scene was cleared. The driver of V2 was not injured. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due o damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of Vehicle #1 was a 47-year-old female that stated she is in good health and is not taking medications at this time. She also stated that she does not wear corrective lenses. She stated that she drives this roadway several times a month to the store. She also stated that she was on her way home from the store when the crash occurred. She stated that she thought she was at the intersection where she was going to turn but realized she was not. And was thinking of how far she had to travel to make her turn. Looking up at the traffic light she noted it was red. She stated it was too late to stop, crossing the path of a vehicle that was traveling north. She stated she could not brake but she steered right to try to avoid contact. She also stated that after final rest her door would not open so she sat there thinking of what she had done. She also stated she did not feel injured.

The Critical Pre crash Event for V#1 was coded “this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre crash Event was coded driver related factor, “inattentive (e.g., day dreaming)”. The associated factors were this driver did not drive this roadway that often and was not attentive to the driving task of were the intersection was that she needed to turn at.

The driver of V2 was a 59 year old male that stated he was in good health and did not take any medications at this time. He did state he wears corrective lenses for Myopic (near sightedness). He stated it was his day off and he was on his way to buy a new cell phone. He stated that as he traveled south in lane two he knew there was a vehicle in lane one traveling south next to him. He also stated he never saw the eastbound vehicle until it was in front of his vehicle. He stated he did not have any time to react. After contact he stated his vehicle-rotated counter clockwise to face east for final rest.

The Critical Pre crash Event for V#2 was coded “other motor vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path”. The Critical Reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle. The associated factor to this vehicle was the driver was in thought about his cell phone service ending and his task of going to buy a new cell phone and not on the task of driving. This driver had a very clear view of the intersection for several hundred feet.

The witness stated as she drove towards the intersection in lane one V#2 was about a half car length ahead of her in lane two. She also stated that she noted the eastbound vehicle approaching the intersection. She stated it did not look as if it was slowing for the red light so she decelerated and watched V#1 enter the intersection to be contacted by V#2 on the left front side of the vehicle pushing it sideways to final rest in lane one and two of the northbound roadway. She stated V#2 rotated clockwise to final rest to face eastbound in lane one. She stated she traveled through the intersection to a parking lot on the southwest corner to park and go see that no one was injured.