This two-vehicle rear-end crash occurred on an urban roadway during early noon hours. The road is divided (without positive barrier) with four eastbound lanes. It is straight, level, and concrete. There were restaurants and gas stations located south of the roadway. The speed limit for the roadway is 48 kph (35 mph). The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash. There was medium to low traffic flow at the time.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1993 GMC Suburban with six occupants, was traveling east in the first lane of traffic. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Nissan Maxima with two occupants, was traveling east in lane one, ahead of V1. V2 slowed down to enter a restaurant parking lot. The front of V1 impacted the rear of V2. V2 was pushed forward into the parking lot. V1 continued to drive in lane one. It departed the roadway about 15 meters (49 feet) after the point of impact. V1 came to rest south of the roadway, partially on the road, partially off the road. V1 remained at the final rest position with its right front wheel restricted by the right front bumper corner. The owner of V1 cut off the right front bumper corner and was afterwards able to drive the vehicle on to the parking lot. He then waited for a private wrecker to tow it from the scene. V2 was driven from the scene. The right front passenger of V2 was listed as transported from the scene on the par. This occupant was present at the scene upon the researchers arrival 20 minutes after the crash. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 30-year old female drove V1. She was well rested, in good heath and did not take any medication. She was heading from her residence to the local Zoo to spend the afternoon with her children and relatives and their children. She had driven 52 km (32 miles) to this location. She rarely drives in this area. She stated V2 slowed down and accelerated several times until it made a sudden stop to enter this restaurant parking lot. She did not see V 2's turn signal activated. She tried to steer to the left to prevent the crash. She could not say how close she was to V2 or how fast she was traveling.

The critical pre crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: following to close to respond to other vehicles action. The relatively long post trajectory of V1 and the fact the driver steered to the left instead of applying her brakes suggest V1 was too close and too fast for an effective avoidance action.

A 36-year old female, who reported no injuries, drove V2. She was heading to lunch from her work together with a co-worker. She does not take any medication and is in good heath. She was driving on this roadway for the very first time. She stated she slowed down with the intention to turn right into the restaurant parking lot. She had her right turn signal on. She was letting another vehicle exit the parking lot first.

The critical pre crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle travleing - this vehicle decelerating. No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle.