The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a high-occupancy, high-volume, and high-speed interstate roadway. There were six lanes running northbound with both right and left side emergency paved shoulders. There was a left concrete median wall separating the southbound lanes. There was a metal guardrail on the right hand side of the roadway. The lanes were a standard 3.7 meters wide. The roadway was straight and level. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekday morning. The posted speed was 105 KPH (65 MPH). Traffic flow was normal as rush hour was over.

V1 was a 1998 Peter built Tractor-trailer truck that was traveling northbound in lane three. The Truck was carrying a trailer unit with 68,000 lbs of marble on its way to a warehouse. V2 was a 1993 Mercury Marquis that was in lane three traveling northbound when the driver saw a truck ahead to the left in lane 6 lose its load of mattresses that it was carrying. There was a truck in front of V2 that swerved around the mattress but V2 panicked when she saw the mattress in her lane and slammed her brakes coming to a full stop in the lane. She was then hit from behind by V1, the 1998 Tractor Truck. V3, was a 2004 Mack Dump Truck, that was also traveling in lane three who was unable to stop in time before he made contact with the back of V1's trailer. V3, the Mack dump truck, tried to steer to the right to avoid hitting V1 and cut into lane two then hitting V4, a 2006 Chevy HHR on its left side. V1 was not towed due to damages. V2 was towed due to damages and the driver was transported to a local hospital with injures. V3 was towed due to damages and the driver was not injured. V4 was towed but, not due to damages and the driver was transported to the hospital with injures. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by a 37-year-old who was on his way to drop off a load of marble from his truck. He was traveling in lane three when he stated in his interview that he saw a truck in the HOV lane (lane 6) carrying a load of mattresses when one came loose and fell into the roadway. There was a vehicle in front of the white vehicle (V2) that swerved to avoid the mattress. The white vehicle (V2) then saw the mattress in her lane and came to complete stop. The driver stated that he tried to brake but did not want to steer to the right or left due to the fact that he had 68,000 lbs load of marble he was transporting. So he tried to brake but was unable to stop in time without hitting the back of V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "other vehicle in his lane stopped". The Critical Reason was a driver error, "following too closely to respond to the unexpected actions of others". An associative factor is the heavy load the driver was carrying as this made it difficult to stop quickly. He was not cited for the crash.

A 41-year-old woman who was in lane three on her way home from dropping her child off at day care drove V2. She stated in her interview that she was just driving along going the speed limit when she saw the mattress fall off the truck and the car in front of her swerve to avoid it then she panicked and slammed her brakes because she didn't want to hit it. After she slammed her brakes and stopped she heard the tractor-trailer behind her lock up his brakes and skid into the back of her. She was transported due to the impact. There were no associative factors related to this driver.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other vehicle in the lane traveling at a higher rate of speed". The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was a 2004 Mack Dump Truck that was driven by a 26-year-old male who was on his route to pick up a load. He stated in the interview that he was driving the speed limit in lane three when he saw the traffic in front of him come to a stop. He saw the tractor-trailer lock his brakes and he too then hit the brakes. He also tried to steer to the right to avoid the impact but was unsuccessful. He made contact with the back right trailer of V1 and also made contact with V4's left side and tire. His vehicle sustained left front damages and was leaking fluids. It was towed and he was not injured. He was cited for the crash for failure to use due care. The officer on scene explained she gave the driver of V3 the ticket because she could not prove that the collision between V1 and V2 happened before V3 hit the back of V1. There were no witnesses to the crash and the driver of the truck who lost the mattress did not stop. There were no associative factors related to this driver.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V3 was not coded, as he was not involved in the first harmful event. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V4 was a Chevy HHR that was traveling northbound in lane two when he was hit by the Mack dump truck (V3). He was a 28-year-old male on his way to a work stop. He stated that he was just driving along and then the collision happened to the left of him and he was then hit on the left side by the dump truck who tried to steer to the right to avoid hitting the back of V1. He was injured and was transported to a hospital with injuries. There were no associative factors related to this driver.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V4 was not coded and he was not involved in the first harmful event. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The vehicle was towed because the driver was transported not due to damages.