This single-vehicle crash occurred on a mountainous, undivided state highway. In the northbound direction, the roadway curves right, is uphill, and the traffic lanes consist of two through lanes - lane one is meant for slower traffic, and lane two is a temporary passing lane. In the southbound direction, there is a single through lane. On the west side of the roadway, there is a narrow, irregular dirt shoulder between the southbound travel lane and a steep downhill embankment; a river with no shore is located at the bottom of the embankment. This roadway has a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph) with an advisory limit of 56 kmph (35 mph) for the curve in both directions of travel. This crash occurred at dusk with moderate traffic flow.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Mercury Cougar with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane two, negotiating the right curve as it was passing a non-contact vehicle. At the end of the curve, V1 began to skid clockwise longitudinally. V1 crossed the divider line and skidded across lane one of southbound travel. V1 departed the roadway on the left and rolled six quarter turns while still rotating clockwise as it traversed the steep downhill embankment. V1 came to final rest facing east-southeast in the river on its top. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1, a fifty-four-year-old male, was traveling from his home to go gambling. He reported that he was drinking something in his vehicle before the crash occurred. He stated he drank about three beers. He has diabetes, but takes no medications for this condition. He reported being well rested, very comfortable with his vehicle, and travels this route twice a month. The driver has some concerns with his employment and his family. He said he thought the roadway was a little wet, and gave this as the reason for the loss of control. The researcher noted on-scene that the roadway was dry. He reported that he was looking to the right before the crash. The researcher feels that this was in order to see if he was successful in passing a non-contact vehicle or vehicles in lane one, since the passing lane would soon end. The police reported the presence of alcohol and this may have been a contributing factor to the cause of the crash. The police also estimated the drivers speed to be 72 kmph (45 mph). The vehicle inspection revealed the tires were all nearly bald. ABS and Traction control are options for this vehicle, but it is unknown if this vehicle was equipped with them.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: external distraction. Just before exiting the roadway, the driver reported that he looked to his right to see if his vehicle had clearly passed the non-contact vehicle. By looking to his right he took his vision off of the roadway in front of him resulting in the left side road departure in the curve. Associative factors include: bald tires; too fast for curve; alcohol presence.