This three-vehicle crash occurred at dawn, at a dark highway intersection with no traffic controls. The highway is under construction, with a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph), and a construction advisory speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The two-lane, two-way road is concrete, level, and straight. The roads were dry, and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1) a 1998 Dodge Ram pickup, driven by an eighteen (18) year-old male, was traveling north in lane one. Vehicle two (V2) a 2008 Chevy Malibu 4-door sedan, driven by a twenty eight (28) year old male was traveling north in lane one. Vehicle three (V3) a 2004 Ford Explorer SUV, driven by a thirty eight (38) year old male was traveling north in lane one. V2 was slowing down almost to a complete stop to wait for a non-contact vehicle to turn left when it was struck in the rear by the front of V1, after the first impact V1 was struck in the rear by the front of V3. All three vehicles came to final rest facing north in travel lane. V2 was towed from the scene; V1 & V3 were driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with lower steady speed. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: internal distraction. The driver was looking in his lap an opening energy drink. He failed to look far enough ahead to realize V2 had decelerated and did not realize caution was required, or that he was too close to the forward vehicle. He was running late for the start of school..

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. Fatigue was a factor for this driver as he had been awake for 13 hours after just 4.5 hours of sleep the previous day.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.