The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a two-lane roadway. There was one northbound lane and one southbound lane. This was a level, bituminous roadway that curved right with a radius of 2250 meters and a posted speed of 89 kmph. It was early afternoon of a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic was flowing.

V1, a 2004 Chevrolet Cavalier two-door with two occupants was traveling southbound in lane one behind V2. V2, a 1999 Chevrolet Astro minivan with two occupants was also traveling southbound in lane one. The driver of V1 stated that he was talking to the passenger and did not realize V2 was slowing in front of him. The driver of V2 stated that there was a vehicle in front of him that slowed down to make a U-turn. The driver of V2 stopped behind the non-contact vehicle and had just started to accelerate. The driver of V1 applied the brakes but could not avoid V2. The front of V1 contacted the back of V2 before they both came to final rest on the shoulder of the southbound lanes. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 76-year old male. He reported no injuries and refused treatment. He stated that he and the passenger had just left a restaurant and was on their way to the bank. He stated that he had been traveling between 82-97 kmph (51-60 mph) when he made the evasive action. He could not stop in time to avoid V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V1 was: Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with lower steady speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a driver related error: Internal distraction because he was conversing with the passenger. An associated factor was an inadequate surveillance because he did not see V2 slowing in front of him.

The driver of V2 was a 45-year old male. He reported no injuries and refused treatment. He stated that he had just left his son's work and was on his way to pick up his dirt bikes. He stated that he was traveling between 2-16 kmph (1-10 mph) prior to the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V2 was: Other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to this driver were that he was talking to the passenger and that he rarely drove this roadway.