The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a two-way, two-lane, undivided roadway. There were no traffic controls for north/south traffic. This was a straight, level, asphalt roadway, with a posted speed of 48 kmph (30 mph). Conditions were dark with streetlights on a weekday evening. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 1994 Dodge Stealth with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane one. V2, an unknown Jeep SUV with one occupant, was disabled in the roadway, facing west, in the northbound lane of travel. V2 was much further north of V1. As V1 approached the disabled vehicle from a distance, the driver did not notice the other vehicle in his lane. The front of V1 made contact with V2. Shortly after the crash, while the two drivers were waiting for police to arrive, the driver of V2 started his vehicle and drove off. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.

V1, the Dodge Stealth, was driven by a 47-year old male, who refused medical treatment. He stated that he was on his way home from the video rental store, when all of the sudden, there was a vehicle stopped in the middle of the intersection, facing west. The driver speculated that the other vehicle had entered the intersection from the side street, but it became apparent that the driver had no idea where the other vehicle came from, or what the other driver's intended direction of travel might have been. The driver finally admitted that he did not know where the other vehicle might have come from. He said that he did not see V2 until he was right on top of him. The driver gave a list of possible reasons for not seeing V2, which included looking away, darkness of night, or lack of any lights on V2. The driver then made an astonishing admission. He indicated that he should not have been driving, due to an unknown medical condition in his left eye, which gives him tunnel-like vision. The problem is so severe that the driver thinks about it constantly, and was going to be seen by a doctor the following week. The driver had a conversation with the hit-and-run driver before he left the scene, in which the other driver indicated that his vehicle had been disabled for at least thirty seconds prior to the collision. During that time, the driver remained in his vehicle, attempting to get it restarted.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related critical non-performance error, vision impairment. The driver had severe vision impairment at the time of the crash, which is why he did not see the disabled vehicle in the roadway. One associated factor for this driver was driver inattention. The driver indicated that lately all he thinks about is a personal problem, his eyesight. This was on his mind at the time of the crash.

V2, the Jeep SUV, was driven by an unknown male, with unknown injuries. The hit-and-run driver could not be reached for interview. The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "this vehicle control loss due to: stalled engine". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. One associated factor for this driver was a vehicle-related engine deficiency. No additional associated factors could be determined for this driver.