This one-vehicle crash occurred during the early evening hours of a weekend. The collision took place on an urban roadway near an adjoining "T" intersection. The roadway had a total of six lanes, divided by a painted median. There were three northbound lanes, all through lanes. The posted speed limit was 40 kmph (25 mph). The surface type for the roadway was that of bituminous asphalt. The roadway was flat, dry, and level; there was no indication of any physical damage. Weather conditions were dark/clear and streetlights were present to illuminate the roadway.

Vehicle one, a 1998 Pontiac Bonneville 4-door sedan, was traveling northbound in lane three of the roadway approaching the "T" intersection. As the driver entered the intersection, a non-contact vehicle traveling southbound attempted to make a left turn in front of V1. As an avoidance maneuver, V1 swerved to the right, crossing over the other 2 travel lanes, to avoid the other vehicle. The driver noticed a parked vehicle on the right side of the roadway (lane one). In order to avoid this vehicle, the driver departed the roadway prior to the parked vehicle and made direct contact with a breakaway pole and tree (which were right next to each other in proximity). The vehicle suffered disabling damages to its front end. Both frontal airbags deployed and paramedics transported the driver to a nearby hospital to be evaluated. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1, a 21 year-old male in generally good health, stated he was on his way to Wal-Mart when the crash occurred. The driver reported that he had forgotten his cell-phone there earlier in the day and was on his way to go pick it up. The driver resides "five minutes away" from the crash scene, and was "five minutes away" from Wal-Mart. The driver, who had been driving for 4 years, took part in a Driver's-Ed program at the age of 18 in high school. The driver went on to say that the training he had there (along with "instincts") helped him to avoid the parked vehicle that was parked on the side of the road. The driver claimed to travel the roadway on a daily basis.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was coded as this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason was coded as incorrect evasive action, a driver related factor. Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include inattention because he was wondering if his cell phone would be where he had left it, poor directional control, and a tire deficiency because the front left tire was bald.