The crash occurred on a two-way, five-lane bituminous road that curves left and has a downhill 3% slope, with a posted speed limit of 56 kph (35 mph). The road has a two-way, left turn only lane that becomes a paved flush median prior to a T-intersection controlled by an on-colors traffic signal. The road also becomes level where the side road intersects from the right. Conditions at the time of the weekday, afternoon crash were daylight, clear and dry.

V1 was a 2000 GMC 2500 Sierra, ¾ ton, 2 door pick-up truck pulling a trailer loaded with 3 ride-on commercial lawn mowers (total weight of 2767 kg /6100 lbs, including trailer-weighed by the truck enforcement officer). There was an additional 68kg/150 lbs of cargo in the pick-up bed. V1 was driven by a 23 year-old male with a 21 year-old male front center passenger, and a 19 year-old male front right passenger. The truck was company owned, and the 3 men were on their way from one weekly grass-cutting job to the next. The driver stated that he was traveling southwest negotiating the left hand curve. He saw the red traffic signal, and applied the brakes to try to stop in time. The driver felt the trailer begin to swing to the right. The driver stated that he had only started driving the truck and pulling the trailer a few months ago and described his comfort level with the trailer as neutral. The trailer swung into lane one and struck the left side of V2, which was stopped at the red signal. The left front of the trailer jackknifed into the left back of the pick-up truck. V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to final rest across lane two and three facing southeast. V1 was drivable following the crash. The fully restrained driver and occupants of V1 refused treatment at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 2000 Dodge Caravan minivan, was driven by a 77 year-old male, with a 60 year-old male front right passenger. The driver stated that he came around the curve in lane one, saw the yellow flashing lights that indicate the signal ahead will turn red, and stopped in lane one at the light. The driver never saw V1 prior to the impact. V2 was pushed onto the curb and came to rest facing west. V2 was towed from the scene due to damage. Both the driver and passenger were fully restrained. The driver was transported to a local trauma center to be evaluated for injuries.

A witness stopped on the side road, was interviewed and stated that she observed V1 brake, the trailer swing to the left and then out to the right and strike V2, who was stopped in lane one at the red signal.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to V1 was 'this vehicle control loss due to jackknife.' The Critical Reason coded to this vehicle was 'unable to stop in time for light with full load.' Contributing factors coded to this driver were 'speed too fast-did not realize caution was required,' and 'uncomfortable with some aspect of vehicle load-pulling loaded trailer'. The left rear tire of V1 flattened during the skidding prior to impact.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to V2 was 'other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane over left lane line.' The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. An Associated factor coded to this driver was for possible side effects of prescribed medication taken for a heart condition, high blood pressure and high cholesterol.