Case 2007-084

The crash occurred in the intersection of an undivided east/westbound five-lane roadway with a two-lane north/southbound roadway. There were two lanes in each direction with a left turn only center lane on the east/westbound roadway. There was one lane in each direction of the north/southbound roadway. The five-lane road was straight, dry, level asphalt with a posted speed limit of 64kph/40mph. The two-lane road was straight, dry, asphalt with a 4% slope downhill to the north. There was a stop sign on this road for northbound traffic. The crash occurred shortly after noon on a weekday under sunny skies with moderate traffic flow. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, 2004 Ford Focus four-door with two occupants was northbound in lane one. V2, a 1994 GMC Jimmy four-door with one occupant was eastbound in lane two. V1 started to turn left at the intersection. V2 braked with lockup in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid impact. V2's front end struck the left side of V1 causing V1 to rotate clockwise. V1 traveled eastward approximately 96m after impact and came to rest facing east straddling the left turn lane and westbound lane two. V2 veered to the left and came to rest facing northeast about eight meters northeast of the impact point. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage.

V1, the Ford Focus, was driven by a 47-year old female. She was coded for non-incapacitating injuries. Her passenger was coded for possible injury. Both occupants were transported to a hospital. The driver reported that she had just left a strip mall and was going to lunch. She said she had stopped a couple of seconds at the northbound stop sign and looked both directions before she started to turn right when she did not see any vehicle approaching. She advised that she never saw V2 and thus took no evasive actions

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was inadequate surveillance failed to look, looked but did not see. Based on the point of impact being in eastbound lane two and the direction of force it appears that the driver of V1 was turning left rather than right as she described in her statement. Either the driver of V1 did not look at all or she did not see V2 approaching. Associated factors were assigned to V1 for driver recognition, inattention (thought focus unknown) and for inadequate surveillance, looked but did not see.

V2, the GMC Jimmy, was driven by a 26-year old male who was not injured. He reported that he was traveling from one work site to another at a speed of 48-64kph/30-40mph. The driver stated that about three seconds before impact he noticed V1 driving across his path. He added that his evasive action of braking with lockup was unsuccessful.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from crossing street turning into opposite direction. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle. An associated factor was assigned to this vehicle for driver recognition, inadequate surveillance failure to look far enough ahead. The driver should have noticed V1 much earlier.