The crash occurred on the westbound side of a highway divided by a positive barrier. There were four eastbound lanes and four westbound lanes. This was a two-way divided concrete roadway with a positive grade and a posted speed of 113 kmph (70 mph). It curved right with a radius of 1% and a super elevation of 3%. It was a weekday afternoon and it had been raining. The roadway had standing water and traffic was flowing.

V1, a 2000 Chevrolet Impala four-door with one occupant was traveling westbound in lane four. V2, a 2003 Mack garbage truck two-door with one occupant was traveling westbound in lane three. V3, a 1998 Chevrolet Silverado pick-up with two occupants was traveling westbound in lane one. V1 was passing V2 on the left when she hit a puddle of water and started hydroplaning and lost control. V1 spun clockwise into and crossed the path of V2. V2's front contacted the right back of V1 spinning V1 clockwise into lane one. V3 attempted to apply the brakes but could not avoid contacting V1. The front of V3 contacted the front of V1. V3 then contacted its front to a guardrail before they all came to final rest on the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 38-year-old female who reported no injuries and refused treatment. She advised that she had just left home and was on her way to work. She stated that she had been traveling between 98-113 kmph (61-70 mph) when she started hydroplaning. She attempted braking and steering right and left but could not keep from loosing control.

The Critical Precrash Event for the V1 was: “this vehicle control loss due to poor road conditions - rain”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a “environmental related factor rain”. An associated factor for the driver of V1 was that her tires had low tread.

The driver of V2 was a 34-year old male who reported no injuries and refused treatment. He advised that he was on his way to dump his load from his route. He advised that he was traveling between 82-97 kmph (51-60 mph) when V1 spun into his lane. He applied the brakes but could not avoid contacting her.

The Critical Precrash Event for the V2 was: “other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane over left lane line”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V3 was a 39-year old male who reported no injuries and refused treatment. He stated that he had just left his brother's house and they were on the way to the movies. He stated that he was traveling between 98-113 kmph (61-70 mph) when V1 spun into his lane. He stated that he did not have time to attempt any avoidance actions.

The Critical Precrash Event for the V3 was: “other not involved in first harmful event”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle.