Case Summary 2007-41-094

The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. The North/South roadway was a two-way, five-lane, undivided street, with a two-way left turn lane. The East/West roadway was a two-way, two-lane, undivided street. The North/South roadway was uncontrolled, with a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). The East/West roadway was controlled by a stop sign, and had a posted speed of 48 kmph (30 mph). These were straight, level, asphalt roads. Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon, with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

V1, a 1994 GMC Suburban with one occupant, was stopped at the intersection, facing east. V2, a 1997 Mercury Sable with two occupants, was traveling southbound in lane one. Both vehicles were approaching the same intersection. As the two vehicles entered the intersection, the left front side of V1 made contact with the front right corner of V2. After impact, V1 was redirected southbound. The right side of V1 sideswiped a concrete utility pole. Both vehicles were towed due to damage.

The GMC Suburban was driven by a 45-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he was on his way from his house to the internal affairs department at the county sheriffs' office. The driver indicated that he was stopped for at least ten seconds before attempting to cross the intersection. He said that he looked to his left, did not see anyone, and then began to accelerate. According to the motorist, the other driver came speeding out of nowhere.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related recognition error, inadequate surveillance. The driver apparently looked in the required direction, but did not see the approaching vehicle. Another recognition-related factor was inattention on the part of the driver, who was focused on financial problems. One physical-related factor for this driver was a pre-existing health condition. The driver takes 20mg of Lipitor once daily for high blood pressure. An additional associated factor for the driver was a decision-related illegal maneuver. Although the driver said he stopped at the stop sign, it is believed that he either did not stop, or came to a rolling stop.

The Mercury Sable was driven by a 20-year old female, who was treated on-scene for minor injuries, but was not transported. She stated that she had been at Dairy Queen with her niece, and was in the process of dropping her niece off before going to work. The driver indicated that she believed the other motorist was going to stop, but realized, as she was about to enter the intersection, that he was not. She applied her brakes, but by then it was too late to avoid V1.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. One associated factor for this driver was a decision-related false assumption. The motorist saw the other vehicle approaching the intersection, and assumed that the other driver was going to stop.