The crash occurred in the intersection of an east-west, 2 lane, 2-way level, straight, bituminous road with no controls and a rural north-south, 2-lane, 2-way level, straight, rural roadway that goes from gravel/slag to bituminous 40 meters before the intersection and is controlled by stop signs on either side of the intersection. At the time of the early Friday evening crash, it was daylight, a light mist was following a heavy downpour and the roadways were wet. The posted speed limit for the east-west roadway was 80kph (50mph) and the un-posted speed limit for the north-south roadway was 89kph (55mph).

V1, a 2001 Oldsmobile Alero solely occupied by the 28 year-old male driver, was southbound on the roadway approaching the intersection described above. V2, a 1997 Buick LeSabre solely occupied by the 40 year-old male driver, was westbound in lane 1 negotiating a curve to the left going uphill 0.032% approaching the intersection described above. V1 failed to stop at the stop sign and steered right. V1 never saw v1 until it entered the intersection. V2, front right, contacted v1, left front, then v1, left rear, contacted v2, right mid, in a side slap. V1 then came to final rest on the right shoulder of the westbound lane facing northwest. V2 was re-directed off the south side of the east-west roadway and struck a wooden fence. V2 came to rest off the south side of the roadway facing northeast. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of v1 stated that he had just finished cutting up a tree that had come down in the storm and was blocking the road (the same gravel/slag one described above) by his house about a mile away and he was going to a nearby store. He said that he drove through a deep puddle in the road (whose presence was later confirmed by the officer on-scene) and when he approached the intersection found that his brakes did not work. The driver took his foot off the gas and tried downshifting the automatic transmission to slow the car but knew he could not stop before entering the intersection. He looked to the left and saw v2 coming so tried to steer to the right at the intersection to avoid v2.

The Critical pre-crash event for v1 was "turning right at intersection". The Critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was the Vehicle Related Factor, the brakes failed. Some contributing factors on the part of v1 include the vehicle's tires being improperly inflated with the left front being over-inflated with minimum tread, the standing water in the roadway which affected the brakes, the driver's choice of inappropriate/unsuccessful avoidance actions and his fatigue following strenuous labor.

The driver of V2 stated that he was westbound in lane 1 traveling at about 40-45 mph and had just turned off his wipers and was headed for a high school football when v1 came from a cross street on his right without stopping. He said he never saw v1until the initial impact and had no time to try to avoid the crash. He then held onto the steering wheel and was re-directed off the road to the left and struck a wooden fence.

The Critical pre-crash event for v2 was Other Vehicle Encroachment "from crossing street turning into same direction". The Critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle. Some contributing factors on the part of v2 include the driver's view of v1's approach to the intersection being obstructed by bushes and trees and his being unfamiliar with the road/area/intersection.