This three-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The north/south roadway is straight, level, undivided and consists of two lanes in each direction. The speed limit for this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). The east/west roadway straight, level, undivided and consists of one lane in each direction and a left turn lane at the intersection. The speed limit for this roadway is 40 kmph (25 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Mazda CX9, was southbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Chevrolet Lumina, was eastbound in lane one. Vehicle three (V3), a 2002 Chrysler Voyager, was stopped northbound in lane two. In the intersection, the front of V1 struck the left side of V2. V1 continued southbound and the front struck the front of V3. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-one-year-old female, was traveling, with her two young children, from a gas station to drop off the children at preschool. This driver was healthy and comfortable with her vehicle and passengers. She travels this route daily. This driver had worked twelve hours each day for the previous seven days. She had three-and-a-half hours of sleep in the early morning hours of the day of the crash. She normally sleeps five hours each night. This driver stated that she felt fatigued. She did not see V2 until she entered the intersection.

The driver of V2, a twenty-six-year-old male, was on his way to lunch with a twenty-five-year-old female coworker. He was healthy, well rested and comfortable with his vehicle and passenger. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that he was talking to his passenger and did not see V1 prior to the crash.

The driver of V3, a sixty-year-old female, was on her way to meet her husband for lunch. She was well rested, healthy and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see). This driver's fatigue and failure to obey the traffic control device were associated factors in this crash. Fatigue was also coded as a factor for this driver, since she had worked an 84 hour week and slept just 3.5 hours in the previous 24 hour period.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle. This driver's inadequate surveillance was an associated factor in this crash.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle