This two-vehicle collision occurred in the mid-morning during daylight hours, The collision occurred on a three-lane, two-way, undivided east/west roadway underneath a bridge. The pre-crash roadway is straight and level, with bituminous paving. It was clear and dry. The posted speed limit for the roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). Access to the roadway is not controlled.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Ford Explorer 4-door SUV driven by a fifty seven (57) year old female was headed east in lane 1. As V1 approached stopped traffic. The driver of V1 was inattentive to the traffic ahead and when she looked forward again, she noticed the traffic ahead of her was stopping. She applied her brakes and hit the right rear corner of the vehicle ahead of her. V1 was driven/fled from the scene. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Saturn SL1 sedan driven by a thirty two (32) year old male was in lane one slowing for traffic ahead, and had come to almost a complete stop when he looked in the rearview mirror and realized he was about to be hit from behind. He steered to the left as he was impacted and his vehicle shot out to the left into the oncoming travel lanes and came to rest against the north curb edge. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 stated that she found out the night before about her brothers cancer, and was emotional about that. She initially ran from the scene of the crash but was later apprehended in a nearby city by a different police department, and was arrested for DUI. The NASS researcher went with officers to the location of the DUI arrest and completed the vehicle inspection. The researcher noticed there were a few other areas of fresh damage, and the person who reported her regarding the DUI stated to the dispatcher that the person was nodding off at the wheel.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with lower steady speed. The critical reason for the critical event assigned to this driver is a driver related factor: external distraction, for looking at children on the sidewalk.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason not coded to this vehicle.