This crash occurred at an intersection without traffic signs or lights. The road is a 3-lane divided (no positive barrier) asphalt roadway from north to south. There are two lane (two-way traffic) exit roads from business parking lots on the west and east side of the roadway. The speed limit for the roadways is 48 kmph (30 mph) for the area. The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash. It was early afternoon on a weekend and there was medium traffic on the roadways.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Honda Accord with two occupants, was leaving a business parking lot on the east of the roadway. The driver of V1 intended to make a left turn into the southbound lanes. Vehicle two (V2), a 1997 Toyota 4-runner with one occupant, was traveling north in the first lane. At the intersection of the roadway and the parking lot exit, the front of V1 struck the right rear side of V2. V1 rotated clockwise and came to rest within the intersection, facing west. V2 rotated clockwise after the impact, and moved north. V2 rolled over onto its left side before it came to rest 12 meters (39 feet) from the point of the first impact facing south. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 30-year-old female drove V1. She stated she saw two vehicles coming from her left. She thought both vehicles were far enough away for her to make a left turn. She said she did not notice V2 traveling ahead of those two vehicles. She was in good health, well rested and did not take any medication. She was heading home from a store located on the business parking lot. She had been stopped for more than 10 seconds before proceeding.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other; leaving driveway, turning left. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). The driver looked too far to the left and overlooked the presence of V2.

A 45-year-old male drove V2. He stated he was in the first lane, traveling at a normal rate of speed, when he got hit in the right rear and started to roll over. He did not see V1 prior to impact. He was heading to a scheduled therapy group visit coming from his nearby residence.

The critical pre crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment: from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle.