This crash occurred on the southbound roadside of a three-lane undivided roadway. There was one southbound lane and two northbound lanes. This roadway had a 5% uphill grade with a slight left curve and a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). It was early evening on a weekday, the road was dry and skies were clear. Traffic flow was light and moving freely.

V1, a 1994 Chevrolet Corvette coupe with one occupant, was southbound negotiating the curve. V2, a 1996 Dodge Caravan minivan was legally parked on the southbound roadside. V1 was not running properly and the driver tried to feather the gas, upon doing so the gas pedal stuck down, the engine cleared up and began to spin the tires. The driver of V1 tried to regain control by using the brakes and steering but lost control and slid into a planter box and V2. V1 came to rest against the planter box, V2 came to rest two meters forward of its original location. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 29-year-old male was uninjured in the crash. He advised that he had just taken V1 out from storage the previous week and he was taking it for a test drive. The motor wasn't running properly and the driver pulled over to take a look at it. When the driver returned to the road the motor was still malfunctioning and he feathered the throttle. The throttle stuck down and causing the tires to spin and lose traction. The driver believed he was traveling at 56 kmph (35 mph) when he lost control. The vehicle went into a counter-clockwise yaw; the driver attempted to recover and forced the vehicle into a clockwise yaw. V1 than impacted the planter box and the minivan (V2).

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle control loss due to non-disabling vehicle problem (the stuck gas pedal). The Critical Reason was coded as a vehicle related factor, stuck gas pedal. Associated factors include inattention (focused on financial matter) incorrect avoidance action (the driver should have stomped the gas pedal to get it to return to the closed position instead of using the brakes) and the fact that this vehicle was parked all winter and the owner had driven only once prior this season.