This two vehicle daytime collision occurred mid-morning on a north/south roadway. The collision occurred south of an intersection and on approach to a driveway. The east/west roadway that intersects north of the collision area is dry, level, asphalt, and consists of eight lanes. This roadway has a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The driveway is located west of the west curb. The driveway is undivided, dry, level, cement, and two lanes. The north/south roadway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of eight lanes. The driveway traffic flow is controlled by a "no left-turn" sign.

Vehicle one (V1) is a 1998 Volvo V70 station wagon, driven by a fifty three (53) year old female. V1 was entering the north/south roadway from the number one lane of the west curb driveway. Vehicle two (V2) is a 1987 Ford Ranger pick-up, driven by a thirty five (35) year old male. V2 was traveling southbound in the number three lane. As V1 entered the roadway in an attempt to turn left, its left plane was contacted by the front plane of V2. V1 came to rest facing southeast, blocking the southbound number two and number three lanes. V2 came to rest facing southeast, blocking the southbound number three lane. V1 received major damage and was towed from the scene. V2 received moderate damage and was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: turned with obstructed view. The driver of V1 was listening to the radio and had just left a car wash and wanted to go across the street to the super market. The driver looked to the left before attempting the left turn, but never saw V2 coming from that direction. A sight line issue had been created by semi truck with trailer traveling in the number two southbound travel lane. An associative factor was the illegal maneuver, for ignoring the posted no left turn sign; and inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). Medications for this driver were Hydrocodone w/APAP. She has high blood pressure and mild flu symptoms.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from driveway, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.