This single vehicle rollover originated in the number two eastbound lane of a divided interstate roadway in a rural area. There are two eastbound and two westbound lanes separated by a depress rock median. There were no traffic controls present. This is a straight, level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 121 kmph (75 mph). Crash occurred at dusk. The road was dry and the weather was clear.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 GMC Savanna Van, was traveling eastbound in the number two lane. The tread separated from the left rear tire. The driver steered right and braked in an attempt to exit the road right and lost control. The vehicle then traveled back across the road in a counterclockwise rotation and exited the roadway on the north edge into the median. The vehicle rolled over and traveled 37 meters (121 feet) from trip point to final rest facing northeast. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1.

A forty eight (48) year old male drove V1. The son of the driver, who was also in the vehicle at the time of the crash, translated for the interview. He said that they were traveling eastbound prior to this crash when the right rear tire blew out. He said he stopped at a small town and put the spare on. The tire was changed and they began to drive for about 20 minutes before the left rear tire tread separated. He said that he was in the left lane traveling about 121 kph (75 mph) when the left rear tire blew out. He tired to steer off the road to the right. He said that when he got close to the right side of the road he steered right. This forced his vehicle to travel across the roadway off the left side of the road. He said that his vehicle then rolled several times before it came to a rest. The driver left his home town about 8 hours before the crash occurred. He went to bed the night before and had 8 hours of sleep. He said that he was awake for about 2 hours before he left his home. The driver is in good heath and takes no medication.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle control loss due to - blow out/flat tire. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: poor directional control (e.g., failing to control vehicle with skill ordinarily expected). Overcompensation and the tire tread separation were considered associative factors. The driver chose an unsuccessful action to control the vehicle after the tread separated.