This crash occurred in the late evening of a weekend in the middle of a four-way suburban intersection. The intersection consisted of a divided, north/south, multi-lane roadway intersected by an east/west four-lane undivided roadway and controlled by a properly functioning traffic signal. The north/south roadway was bituminous, dry, and straight, with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The bituminous east/west roadway was dry, straight and level with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph) as well. The traffic flow was moderate and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 2002 Honda Accord, with one occupant was southbound in lane three approaching the intersection where it intended to go straight. V2, a 2004 Ford F-150 pick-up, with one occupant was westbound in lane one approaching the same intersection where it also intended to go straight. V1 entered the intersection against the traffic control device as V2 was continuing westbound through the intersection. The left front of V1 struck the right side of V2. Both vehicles came to final rest in the middle of the intersection. V1 was moved after coming to final rest to a nearby parking lot. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 46-year-old female, was transported for treatment of incapacitating injuries. She claimed that she entered the intersection on a yellow light, and there was hardly any time between and the green and red light. She said she saw V2 in the intersection and slammed on her brakes and steered right. She said it happened so fast she was not sure what happened next. She just remembered the driver of V2 asking if she was ok.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason was a driver related error, inadequate surveillance, as the driver failed to look far enough ahead and to the side. Associated factors include an illegal maneuver as the driver failed to stop for a traffic control device. From monitoring the TCD, there did not appear to be any timing problems with the lights.

The driver of V2, a 52-year-old male was not injured in the crash. His vehicle was towed due to damage. Several attempts were made to contact this driver but all have proven unsuccessful.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no known associated factors that could be coded to V2.