This two-vehicle crash occurred during shortly after dawn, during daylight hours. The location was a busy arterial in an area of commercial business in a "T": intersection with no traffic controls for east/west travel. The roadway was a concrete five lane with two lanes in each direction and a center left turn only lane. The impact location is in the westbound lanes. The weather was cloudy and the roadway was wet from previous rain and visibility was clear. The posted speed limit was 72 kmph (45 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1989 Mazda 323 sedan driven by a thirty six (36) year old male, was eastbound in lane two. The eastbound traffic slowed ahead and stopped ahead of V1. For unknown reasons the driver of V1 was coming up on the stopped traffic pretty fast, and when he realized the situation, he steered left to avoid a collision, and lost control of his vehicle, which rotated counterclockwise into the oncoming lanes. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Kenworth Dump Truck driven by a twenty six (26) year old male, was traveling westbound in lane two, and saw V1 lose control right in front of him and locked up his brakes. The front of V2 impacted the right side of V1. Both vehicles then traveled in a northwest direction and V1 impacted a utility pole with the left side rear of the vehicle where V1 came to rest. The driver of V1 died at the scene. After impact V2 traveled off the roadway to the right, impacting and shearing a separate utility pole where V2 came to rest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inattention (i.e., daydreaming). Overcompensationand poor directional control were considered associative factors. The driver of V1, was alone in the vehicle and was inattentive by talking on his cell phone. Traffic ahead of him had slowed up or stopped. The truck driver of V2 stated he made eye contact with this driver prior to impact and that he was on the phone. The driver of V2 also believes that the driver of V1 was avoiding a different crash. It is unknown if this driver was in a hurry, or if he was familiar with the area. It is also unknown if he was pre-occupied with any concerns, or in good health or well rested.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction, over left lane line. A critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle.