This four vehicle daytime collision occurred in the intersection of a two lane arterial road, and a two-lane city street. The roads are paved with concrete. The roadway east/west is controlled with a stop sign and has a downhill grade of - 11%, the north/south roadway has an uphill grade of 8%. The speed limit north/south is 40 kmph (25 mph) and for east/west the speed limit is 48 kmph (30 mph). At the time of the crash the sky was cloudy and there were no adverse conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Toyota Camry sedan driven by a forty six (46) year old female, was traveling east in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Honda Accord sedan driven by a thirty five (35) year old female, was traveling south in lane one. Vehicle three (V3), a 2005 Chevrolet Van driven by a forty two (42) year old male, was heading west in lane one and vehicle four (V4), a 1994 Nissan Pathfinder SUV was parked facing east along the south/east curb. V1 was stopped at the stop sign and began to go straight through the intersection, as V1 entered the intersection V2 impacted the left rear of V1 with its front causing V1 to fishtail and sideswipe V3, V1 then deflected off to the right and impacted the rear of V4. V1 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 did not speak English; the researcher was only able to get a partial interview.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event assigned to this driver as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). The driver of V1 entered the intersection at a low rate of speed and did not notice V2 until she had already entered the intersection. It is unclear if V1 came to a full stop before proceeding into the intersection.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor for V2 - the driver assumed V1 would yield the right of way.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle.