This three-vehicle crash occurred on the northbound lanes of a twelve-lane roadway: six northbound and six southbound just before a T-intersection. On the left of this three lane section of the roadway, there was a cement driveway entrance and exit to a local business. The right side of the roadway consisted of non-physically divided raised cement grassy median. Beyond the median there were additional northbound and several southbound lanes. Signalized traffic control devices controlled all directions of travel. The asphalt roadways were dry, level, and straight and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during the early afternoon daylight hours. The roadway was free of any defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.

Vehicle one, a 2005 Toyota Scion 4-door sedan, was traveling northbound in lane one when it contacted with its front the rear of vehicle two, a 1995 Chevrolet Prizm 4-door sedan, also traveling northbound in lane one stopped at the red light waiting for the traffic to proceed. After the initial impact with vehicle one, vehicle two contacted with its front the rear of vehicle three, a 2004 Ford Taurus 4-door sedan, also stopped in lane one at the red light. Vehicle two damages were severe and it was towed from the scene. The damages to vehicles one and three were moderate and they were not towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a 25-year old male, could not be reached for comments. The police on scene said he may have had a seizure but they were not certain and did not make any further comments. However, the PAR lists the driver's physical condition as sick. Several attempts were made to contact the driver, however, to no avail. He was transported directly from the scene to the hospital with non-life threatening injuries.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V1 is: "other motor vehicle in lane, stopped". The Critical Reason coded for this vehicle is: an "type of driver error unknown". The driver of this vehicle could not be reached for comments, so, there are no associated factors linked to him. The medical records show that he has diabetes and he is taking Prednisme, Florinef, Levothyroxine, and Noralog pump. They treated him for hypoglysemia which may have caused him to black out.

The driver of vehicle two, a 73-year old female, said she was stopped at the red light in lane one when her vehicle was struck from behind by another vehicle which obviously didn't stop causing her to impact the vehicle in front of her also stopped at the red light. It all happen so fast she said. She didn't see the vehicle coming because she was busy looking ahead. She said she does look in her rear-view mirror from time to time while driving, but not this time. I was focused on the traffic in front of me. She travels on the road weekly. She's been a licensed driver for over 55-years. Although, she remarked, she hasn't had a car for the entire 55-years. Her passenger/sister, whom she was talking to, was pretty badly injured, she lost some of her hearing as a result of the crash and her car that she relied on for several years was totaled. Both she and her sister were transported from the scene to the hospital with non-life threatening injuries.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V2 is: "other motor vehicle in lane traveling in the same direction with a higher speed". The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle include: possible fatigue, driver only slept 7-hour, normally sleeps 8-hours, driver is diabetic and has high blood pressure, breast cancer, osteoporosis, overactive bladder and a thryroid condition. She is taking the following medications: Humalog, Femara, Sythriod, Cozaar, Fosamax, Vesicare.

The driver of vehicle three, a 55-year old male, said he'd just left a business appointment and was waiting at the intersection in front of the other two vehicles for the light to change when his vehicle was struck by the vehicle behind him and the vehicle behind him was struck by the vehicle behind it. He called it a domino effect. He was not injured.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V2 is: this vehicle not involved in the first harmful event.