This two-vehicle crash occurred near an intersection on a straight, undivided, two-lane roadway. The westbound travel lane has a downhill grade. There are paved shoulders on both sides of this roadway. The speed limit on this roadway is 97 kmph (60 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Chrysler Sebring, was westbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Suzuki Vitara, was westbound in front of V1. There was a non-contact vehicle between V1 and V2. Another non-contact vehicle in front of V2 came to a stop to turn left at the intersection. The vehicle between V1 and V2 traveled onto the right shoulder to pass V2. The front of V1 struck the back of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-year-old female, with a twenty-three-year-old female passenger, was on the way home from visiting a friend. She was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. She travels this route weekly. This driver stated that she did not realize that V2 had stopped until she saw the non-contact vehicle drive onto the shoulder to get around V2. She steered to the left and applied the brakes, skidding longitudinally.

The driver of V2, a fifty-two-year-old female, was on her way home from work. She was in good health, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels on this roadway daily. This driver stated that she noticed the non-contact vehicle driving to the right around her vehicle, but did not see V1 prior to the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane; other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others (specified as: non-contact vehicle masked the fact that V2 had stopped in the traffic lane). This driver's failure to look far enough ahead was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.