The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. The north/south roadway was a two-way, five-lane, undivided traffic way. The east/west roadway was a two-way, seven-lane trafficway, which was divided by a concrete curbed median. The intersection was controlled by a traffic light. The posted speed in all directions was 64 kmph (40 mph). These were straight, level, asphalt roads. Conditions were daylight on a weekday morning with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 2003 BMW 325i with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane three. V2, a 2002 Chrysler Concorde with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane three (left turn lane). Both vehicles were approaching the same intersection. As the two vehicles entered the intersection, the front right corner of V1 made contact with the left front corner of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

The BMW 325i was driven by a 30-year old female, who was not injured. She declined to be interviewed. However, in her statement to police, the driver's final recollection was that she did not know which lane she was traveling in, and also did not know what color her light was as she entered the intersection. A witness to the crash was stopped in the eastbound left turn lane (lane four). He advised that the driver of V1 drove past him in lane three, running the red light. The witness also stated that the driver of V1 was talking on a cell phone as she entered the intersection.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle; however a driver-related recognition error, internal distraction, was coded as an associated factor. The driver, who was distracted by a cell phone conversation, failed to recognize that her light was red. Another associated factor for this driver was an illegal maneuver, failing to stop for a traffic control signal. No additional associated factors could be determined for the driver of V1 due to lack of interview data.

V2, a 2002 Chrysler Concorde with one occupant, was driven by a 46-year old female, who was checked on-scene by EMS for possible injuries. She declined to be interviewed. However, in her statement to police, the driver indicated that the traffic signal arrow turned green for her to proceed. As she entered the intersection, the driver of V1 ran a red light, striking her vehicle.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "this vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as inadequate surveillance because this driver failed to recognize impending danger because she failed to look in the direction from which V1 was coming. Additional associated factors could not be determined due to lack of interview data.