This two-vehicle crash occurred during the late evening hours of a weekday. The crash took place on an urban undivided north/south roadway. Northbound travel had two lanes of travel with lane two being a left turn-only lane. There was one southbound lane. In both directions, there were parking and bike lanes. The posted speed limit for the roadway was 56 kmph (35 mph). The surface type for the roadway was that of bituminous asphalt. The roadway was flat, dry, and level, without any indications of physical damage. Weather conditions were clear and cold. Although dark, the roadway was illuminated by street lamps.

V1, a 2003 Saab 9-3 4-door sedan, was traveling northbound at an appropriate speed. According to an eyewitness account, V1 crossed the double-yellow lines and drove directly into the path of V2, a 1999 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan, which was traveling southbound. Upon impact, V1 rotated clockwise approximately ninety degrees before coming to final rest. V2 came to rest at a forty-five degree angle with V1. Based on collected evidence, V2 appeared to have veered slightly to the left prior to impact. Both vehicles suffered major, disabling damage and had to be towed from the scene. The drivers of both vehicles were immediately transported to a hospital where they were reported to be in serious condition. The driver of V2 had to be extricated from the vehicle. The frontal airbags (driver and passenger) for both vehicles were in full deployment. In addition, the side curtain airbags of V1 were also in full deployment. V1 was driven by a 29-year old female and V2 was driven by a male of unknown age. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The witness also stated that V1 appeared to have intentionally driven into oncoming traffic. Because no interviews could be obtained from either driver, the validity of this statement was unknown.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The Critical Reason was coded an unknown driver error. No associated factors could be coded due to the lack of interview.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors could be coded to the driver of V2 due to the lack of interview.