This three-vehicle, rear-end crash occurred on a five-lane roadway with no traffic controls. The roadway has three lanes east and two lanes west. The roadway is straight with an upgrade of +4% for eastbound traffic. The posted speed limit for the roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours, the weather was clear with no adverse atmospheric conditions. The roadway is constructed of bituminous asphalt.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1989 Chevrolet S-10 pickup with one occupant was eastbound in the number two lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Toyota 4x4 Tundra pickup with two occupants, was eastbound in the number two lane ahead of V1. V3, a 2000 Toyota 4x2 Tundra pickup with one occupant, was eastbound in the number two lane ahead of V2. V3 and V2 had stopped for an approaching emergency vehicle making a right turn into a designated emergency only vehicle entrance to a local hospital. The driver of V1 was traveling at a speed of 32 kmph (20 mph) or greater, attempted to stop by braking with lock-up, and struck the back of V2. The impact propelled V2 forward and V2's front struck V3 in the back. The vehicles came to final rest very near the points of impact and all three were facing east in the original number two, travel lane. V1 was towed due to damage. V2 and V3 were not towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty two (22) year old Hispanic male, stated he had been traveling east in the number two lane between 48 - 56 kmph (30 - 35 mph). He stated he was listening to music and did not see the traffic stopping for the ambulance until he was within 3 - 5 meters (10 -15 feet) of V2. He stated his brakes were bad; he braked hard, but could not avoid striking V2. This driver was arrested on scene for possession of marijuana. He stated he was familiar with the roadway, was in good health, did not require glasses and had taken no medications. The driver had a small scratch on the left arm and a bump on the forehead. He was examined by EMS personnel and was not transported. The driver stated he had slept seven hours the night before and began driving at the age of sixteen years. He was also driving with a suspended drivers license.

The driver of V2, a seventeen (17) year-old female and one male passenger, had just left his home about five minutes earlier. The driver stated she saw traffic in front of her stopping for an ambulance and she stopped about three feet behind V3. She saw V1 in her rearview mirror and heard the tires skidding just before the impact. She stated that she and V3 were stopped at the time of the crash. The impact pushed her forward and the front of her vehicle struck the back of V3. The driver of V2 and the passenger were not injured and not transported. The driver stated she was in good health, did not require glasses, had slept seven and one half-hours the night before and had taken no medications.

The driver of vehicle three, a sixty-six (66) year-old male, stated he had been driving about five minutes at the time of the crash. He said he saw traffic in front of him stopping for an approaching ambulance and he stopped about three feet behind the car in front of him. He stated he heard vehicle one tires skidding, looked in the side mount mirror and saw vehicle one "smoking' the tires trying to stop". The driver said he knew he was going to be hit and braced against the steering wheel. The driver said he was in good health, was wearing prescription glasses, had slept eight hours the night before and had taken no medications.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane ,other vehicle stopped. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others (specified as: forward vehicles stopped for an ambulance on the cross street.) Inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see) and inattention (i.e., daydreaming).were considered associative factors for this driver.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.