This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. On the south side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a grass median and the northbound traffic lanes consist of a left-turn lane, two through lanes and a right-turn lane. On the north side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a grass median and the southbound traffic lanes consist of one left-turn lane, two through lanes and a right-turn. This roadway is curved left on the north side of the intersection and straight on the south side; both are downhill and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during nighttime hours with no traffic congestion. The roadway is illuminated at night.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Saturn SC1 with only the driver present, was northbound in lane four, preparing to turn left. Vehicle two (V2), a 2007 Hummer H3 with two occupants present was southbound in lane two approaching the intersection. V1 and V2 entered the intersection at the same time. The front of V2 struck the right side of V1. After impact, V1 rotated counterclockwise as V2 rotated clockwise and the two vehicles impacted again (side slapped), the right side of V1 struck the left side of V2. V1 came to rest on the south side of the intersection in lane two, on all four wheels facing south. V2 came to rest on a raised island in the southwest corner of the intersection, on all four tires facing southwest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The two occupants in V2 were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-one-year-old male, was on his way home from a friend's house when the crash occurred. He stated that he was rested, drives this route daily and is very comfortable with this vehicle. The driver also stated he was a little "stressed out" due to roommate problems. He indicated that he was in good health and had smoked marijuana within the twenty-four hours before the crash. The driver stated that the traffic signal was green when he entered the intersection. He stated the signal turned yellow about half way through. There was a non-contact vehicle in southbound lane three that was slowing down to stop at the intersection. This non-contact vehicle obstructed the view of V2 as the driver of V1 accelerated to complete the left turn. Data obtained during the investigation verified the driver's description.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: turned with obstructed view. The driver's view was obstructed by the non-contact vehicle.

The driver of V2 was a twenty-four-year-old male. Little is known about this driver due to no interview being acquired.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.