A two-vehicle daytime angle/rollover type collision occurred heading south on a four-lane drawbridge with metal grated bridge decking. The surface was wet from rain earlier. It is straight and level. Prior to the bridge, the roadway leading to the bridge is a two way, 4-lane undivided roadway with an asphalt surface. The speed limit for the roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). At the time of the crash the sky was cloudy. A warning sign, slippery when wet, is posted prior to the bridge to warn oncoming motorists of the slippery surface.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Nissan Xterra with two occupants, was heading southbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Lexus RX 330 also with two occupants, was headed southbound in lane two ahead of V1. V2 had slowed for a pedestrian in the roadway. The driver of V2 was focused on construction workers on the bridge and was unaware of the presence of V2 approaching from the rear. When V1 had transitioned from the asphalt roadway to the metal bridge decking the driver lost control of her vehicle and the front plane near the left corner struck the right side of V2 near the front. The vehicles side slapped and the right rear of V2 struck the left rear of V1. V1 continued forward crossing the roadway as the driver attempted to regain control. As it left the bridge, the vehicle was in a yaw with the left side leading. The front left wheel dug into the concrete and V1 rolled one-quarter turn to the left. V1 came to rest on its left side facing north. V2 came to rest on the bridge. V1 was towed and V2 was driven from the scene. None of the four occupants were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 is 20 year-old female. This was the first time the driver had driven the road and had just taken this vehicle out of storage 8 days prior to the crash. The driver had also admitted to going too fast for the road conditions. The driver stated she lost control when the vehicle entered the drawbridge surface. Upon losing control of her vehicle the driver was unable to reconstruct the sequence of events. She stated she had been driving for four years.

The critical pre-crash event coded for V1 was: This vehicle control loss due to, poor road conditions. The critical reason for the critical event was coded: Environment related factor-slick roads (low friction road surface). Traveling too fast was an associative factor as was this was the first time she traveled the route. She failed to heed the warning sign of a slippery surface ahead. The driver failed to realize caution was required.

The driver of V2 is a 58 year-old male. He stated he was traveling slowly because of a pedestrian in the roadway and that he was going to turn left after the bridge so he did not have to go fast. He also noted that after seeing the pedestrian, he had continued to scan the roadway in all directions for other pedestrians. The pedestrian he saw was not crossing in a marked pedestrian crosswalk. This driver was also traveling slowly due to his cargo load of artwork. This driver did not detect V2 till impact. He noted that she hit him a couple of times and he was concerned with controlling his vehicle and staying out of her way. The critical pre-crash event coded to this vehicle was: other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane (same direction) - over right lane line. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle.