This crash occurred on a two lane undivided roadway. There was one lane eastbound and one lane westbound. This straight, level, bituminous roadway had a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). It was the early afternoon on a holiday and the roads were wet and skies were cloudy. There had been on and off rain all morning. Traffic flow was light and moving steadily.

V1, a 1993 Honda Civic 2-door with one occupant, was traveling east in lane one. V2, a 2007 Honda Civic 2-door with one occupant, was traveling west in lane one. For an unknown reason, V1 traveled over the left lane line and the front of V1 struck the left side of V2. The impact pushed V2 to strike the curb and onto the grass. V2 came to final rest approximately 20 meters northwest of point of impact. V1 came to final rest approximately 17 meters northwest of point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the 1993 Honda Civic, was driven by a 26-year-old male who reported no injuries at the accident scene. No interview was given by the driver of V1, but according to the police report, the driver was heading east in lane one intending on continuing straight when the rear tires locked and forced him to skid into V2.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event was coded as, "This vehicle traveling-over lane line on left side of travel lane." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as unknown due to the lack of interview. Associated factors that were coded to this driver were wet roads and the cloudy, rainy weather conditions.

V2, the 2007 Honda Civic, was driven by a 26-year-old male who reported "C" injuries at the accident scene and was transported to a medical facility. The driver stated that he was following his wife (who was traveling in a non-contact vehicle in front of him) to his in-law's house for the holiday. As they were traveling, he noticed V1 "drifting" into his lane approximately 5 seconds before the collision occurred. The driver of V2 stated that he tried to avoid the collision by steering towards the curb and slowing down, but was unsuccessful.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded "Other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factors that were coded to this driver were the wet roads and the cloudy, rainy weather conditions.