The crash occurred in the center of a "T" intersection composed of a two-lane north/south roadway, and a two-lane east/west roadway. Both roadways were bituminous and undivided. The north/south roadway had a 3 percent downhill grade in the northbound direction and a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The east/west roadway was level with posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). A stop sign controlled the northbound roadway. There was no traffic control device for east/west traffic. It was afternoon on a weekday. The roads were dry and the traffic flow was moderate.

V1, a 2002 Mitsubishi Lancer 4-door sedan with one occupant, was traveling north in lane one when it attempted to turn left at the intersection after observing the stop sign. V1 pulled into the intersection and the front of V1 struck the right rear side of V2. V2, a 2003 Dodge Ram pickup truck with one occupant, was traveling east in lane one. The driver of V2 attempted to avoid V1 by applying his brakes and steering slightly to the left. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 17-year-old female. She stated that she was stopped at the stop sign, looked left and then right. A non-contact truck that was stopped facing west waiting to turn left onto the southbound roadway waved her on, and she panicked and turned left without looking left again. The driver stated that because she did not look to the left again she did not see V2 until impact. The driver of V1 took no avoidance maneuver.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "Inadequate surveillance, failed to look to side." The following associated factors were coded to the driver of V1: driver focused on extraneous vehicle and driver inexperience.

The driver of V2, a 39-year-old male, reported no injuries and was not transported. The driver stated that he was traveling at approximately 64 kmph (40 mph) as he approached the intersection, where he observed V1 waiting to turn. V2 began to decelerate, but V1 pulled out and he was struck on the right side. The driver of V2 attempted to avoid the collision by applying his brakes and steering left.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." No Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were assigned.