This crash occurred near a 3-way controlled intersection. The south roadway was an undivided roadway with one lane heading south and one heading north and was controlled by a stop sign. The east/west roadway was an undivided roadway with one lane heading in each direction. The east/west roadway had a posted speed limit of 80 kmph (50 mph) and was a level, straight, bituminous roadway. The south roadway had a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph) and was a level, straight, bituminous roadway. The crash occurred in the mid-afternoon of a weekday. The skies were clear and the roads were dry. The traffic flow was steady.

V1, a 2006 Toyota Scion TC 2-door coupe, was traveling in lane one going east. V2, a 2001 Dodge Caravan minivan was traveling in lane one going east a short distance behind V1. As V1 approached the intersecting roadway, the driver pulled the vehicle over to the right in order to make a U-turn. When the driver thought that the roadway was clear, he proceeded to make a U-turn in order to be going west. V2 was traveling in lane one eastbound and observed V1 pulled over. As V2 was passing V1, V1 began to turn into V2. In attempts to avoid the collision, V1 accelerated and V2 braked but both were unsuccessful. The front of V2 struck the left side of V1. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Toyota Scion, was driven by a 19-year-old male who reported moderate injury but refused treatment. His two 19-year-old female passengers reported no injuries on the scene. The driver and his passengers were traveling home from college in order to attend a funeral. They have been driving for approximately an hour and a half when the collision occurred. The driver pulled over and only looked in the one direction (westbound direction) and saw that it was clear and proceeded to make the U-turn. However, the road was not clear and V2 struck V1. The driver stated that he tried to avoid the collision by accelerating but was unsuccessful.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded as, "This vehicle traveling over the lane line on the left side of travel lane." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as "Inadequate surveillance - failed to look to rear-mirrors." The driver stated that he did not look to both sides and did not see V2. The other associated factors that were coded to this driver was driver inattention and upset due to the future event of going to a funeral, conversation with the passengers, and the illegal maneuver - initiating an illegal U-turn.

V2, the Dodge Caravan, was driven by a 66-year-old female who reported moderate injury and was transported to a medical facility. Her passenger, a 74-year-old female, reported a complaint of pain and was also transported to a medical facility. The driver stated that she was bringing chairs over to a clubhouse. The driver stated that she was not following directly behind V1 nor did she see the vehicle pull over, and thought she must have been a couple of cars behind the V1. As she approached the intersection she saw V1 pulled over to the side of the road but continued to proceed through since she had the right of way. As she was passing V1, he pulled out directly into her. She attempted to avoid the collision by braking but was unsuccessful.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded as, "Other motor vehicle encroachment - from adjacent lane (same direction) over right lane line." No Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded to this driver. The only associated factor that was coded to this driver was a false assumption in that the driver assumed that the other driver would yield to right-of-way.