The crash occurred on a bridge with four lanes. There were two lanes westbound and two eastbound lanes. The crash occurred at the crest of an uphill 2% grade. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekday afternoon. The roadway was straight and level. There was construction going on which had a lane ahead closed. Due to the lane closure there was traffic backed up from the light onto the bridge. The posted speed was 56 kmph (35 mph).

V1 was a 2002 Chevy Malibu that was in lane two traveling westbound. The vehicle was an undercover police vehicle. The driver was approaching the intersection and as she came over the bridge the traffic was backed up, she was going very fast and hit the back of V2, a 2004 Lincoln Aviator SUV that was stopped for the light in lane two. V2 then got pushed into V3, a 2007 Hyundai Elantra that was also stopped in lane two. After this crash, V4, a 2006 Jeep Cherokee, came up over the bridge as he was trying to change lanes to the right and then looked straight to see the crash. The driver was unable to stop and hit the back of V1. All the drivers were not injured but V1 was towed due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1 and 0 kmph for V2.

V1 was driven by an undercover police officer on her way to a scene for work. The driver was a 34-year-old female who stated in the interview that she was stopped when she was first hit by V4 thus pushing her into V2. This story was not believable as the driver of V2, stated that as she stopped her vehicle she realized she was in the blind spot of the bridge and thought she would be hit. The driver of V2 then looked to her rear to see the driver of V1 coming at her fast. She stated that the driver of V1 put her hands up in the air to brace for the crash. The driver of V2 stated that it was not until the initial crash happened between V1 and V2 did the driver of V4 then hit V1 from behind. The damage was very heavy between V1 and V2, which would not collaborate with V1's story of the initial hit from V4, as V4 had minor front-end damage, which would not have been the case if V1 was at a complete stop when she was hit. There were no associative factors related to this driver.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was “other motor vehicle in lane stopped”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver error, “traveling too fast to be able to respond to others actions”. Although, the driver did not realize caution was required due to the backed up traffic the driver should have not been driving so fast over the bridge where you have poor visibility as to what is ahead. The driver was able to get out of the ticket blaming V4 for the first initial impact.

V2 was a 44-year-old female who was on a work related errand. The driver was stopped in lane two from the backed up traffic. The driver stated that when she stopped she realized she was in the blind spot of the bridge and looked behind her as she had a bad feeling. She stated that the driver of V1 came at her very fast and she knew she was going to hit her. The driver of V1 then held her hands up in the air to brace for the crash. The driver of V2 stated that she was going pretty fast when she hit the rear of her SUV pushing her into V3. There were no associative factors related to this driver. She was not injured and the vehicle was not towed due to damages.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was “other vehicle in lane traveling at a higher rate of speed”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this driver.

A 60-year-old male who had just had lunch with his son drove V3. He was stopped in lane two for the traffic light. He was at a stop when he was struck from behind by V2. The driver stated that his vehicle was pushed into another car that was stopped in front of him but the police on-scene let the other vehicle go, as there was no visible damage. An associative factor related to this driver was that he was in a rental car and it was the first time he had driven this car. In the interview he stated that he was comfortable in the vehicle. V3 was not towed and no one was injured.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V3 was not coded to this vehicle, as he was not involved in the first harmful event. The Critical Reason was also not coded.

V4, a 2006 Jeep Cherokee was driven by a 25-year-old male who was on a work errand. The driver was in lane two and was looking to the right, as he wanted to change lanes but realized another vehicle was in his blind spot. The driver then looked ahead to see the crash. The driver hit the brakes but was unsuccessful as he hit the back of V1. This driver was cited a ticket for failure to use due care as he could not prove that the crash between V1 and V2 had already happened. This vehicle had minor front-end damage. The driver was not injured and the vehicle was not towed due to damages.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle, as he was not involved in the first harmful event. The PAR listed this as V1 and the driver at fault as the driver was a fellow officer of the police department. The driver of V1 story did not match the scene, vehicle damages, and the other driver's accounts of the event leading to the crash.

V5 was a 2003 Lincoln Town Car that was stopped in front of V3 at the light. This driver was not involved in the first harmful event so it was not coded.