The crash occurred in the middle lane of a five-lane, two-way roadway. Lane three served as a left turn lane for both directions of travel. There were two northbound lanes and two southbound lanes, divided by a left turn lane. This was a straight, bituminous roadway with a downhill grade and a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). It was afternoon and the road was wet and it was snowing. Traffic was congested, but flowing.

V1, a 1998 Chevrolet Astro van with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane two. V2, a 1997 Ford Econoline Ambulance with two occupants, was also traveling southbound in lane two, behind V1. V2 was on the way to a call and was running hot with lights and sirens. V2 changed lanes to the left to pass V1 in the left-turn lane. V1 did not see V2 and also changed lanes to the left attempting to make a left-hand turn. The front of V2 contacted the left of V1. V1 then departed the roadway on the left side and impacted its undercarriage to a curb before coming to final rest off the roadway. V2 came to final rest in the roadway and caught on fire post-impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 61-year old male who reported injuries and was transported to a local trauma facility. He stated that he did not remember what had happened. He stated that he had left the store and was on his way home. He stated that he did not remember how fast he was traveling and was unsure if he attempted any avoidance actions.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for the driver of V1 was this vehicle traveling: turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was a driver related error: unknown recognition error, because the driver did not remember what had happened in the crash. Associated factors coded to this driver include chronic back pain, inadequate surveillance (failed to look to rear), and the weather (snow).

The driver of V2 was a 39-year old male who reported minor injuries and was transported to a local trauma facility. He stated that he had just left the office and was on his way to a call. He advised that he was traveling between 50-64 kmph (31-40 mph) when he made the evasive action of applying the brakes. He was unable to avoid contacting V1.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for the driver of V2 was other vehicle encroachment: from adjacent lane, over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to the driver of V2 include a false assumption that V1 would yield for him, being in a hurry, and the weather (snow).