This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. Both roadways are one-way and level with speed limits of 48 kmph (30 mph). The westbound roadway is straight and consists of four through lanes. The southbound roadway curves the right and consists of three through lanes. There were fences and large trees in the northeast corner of this intersection. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Honda Accord, was westbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Ford Crown Victoria taxicab, was southbound in lane three. In the intersection, the front of V2 struck the right side of V1. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-eight-year-old female, had left her home, stopped at a gas station and was on the way to the YWCA to work out. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she had just changed lanes to the right and was looking straight ahead at her destination just past the intersection. She did not see V2 prior to the crash.

The driver of V2, a forty-two-year-old male, had just picked up three passengers at a hospital and was on the way to drop them off. He was well rested and healthy. He had been driving a taxi for three years at the time of the crash. He travels this route several times each month and was comfortable with his vehicle and passengers. This driver stated that he had just changed lanes to the left when he saw V1 and applied the brakes (skidding longitudinally) in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's inadequate surveillance and the visual restriction caused by the trees and fence were associated factors in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)." The visual restriction caused by the trees and fence was an associated factor in this crash.