This single-vehicle crash occurred in the evening hours, it was dark but there was overhead lighting near the crash location. The location was a rural roadway that was bituminous and five lanes total with three lanes heading southbound up the hill and two heading northbound down the hill. The southbound direction was a long sweeping curve to the right, with a 6% grade. It was raining, and the roadway was wet. Visibility was not very clear. The posted speed limit was 40 kmph (25 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Chevy Silverado pick-up driven by a forty eight (48) year old male, was traveling southbound up a hill when it lost traction due to the wet roadway. V1 drifted over the double yellow lines, and began to rotate clockwise and departed the roadway via the left shoulder. The left side tires and wheel impacted the curbing, V1 went up on the curb, across a sidewalk tripped on the dirt embankment and rolled to the left. The vehicle came to rest facing westbound on the sidewalk and partially in the bike lane. The driver of the vehicle was injured, and transported by aid to the local hospital. The vehicle was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

A case of beer was found at final rest next to V1. There was also an open beer in the driver's cup holder. Alcohol consumption was considered an associative factor for the driver by the investigating officer even though the driver refused to take a blood test. V1's tires had adequate inflation and tread depth. The driver stated that the wet roads were the cause of the control loss. The driver was listening to the radio, when the researcher arrived on-scene the radio was still playing in V1. The driver was on his way home from a golf course. The driver further stated that he is diabetic and had not eaten all day. He takes the medications Nexium and Lexapro. He stated he was in a hurry to get home to cook dinner.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: too fast for conditions (specified as: wet roads and traveling too fast for curve).