This two-vehicle crash occurred during daylight hours with evening traffic congestion in a four-leg, signal-controlled intersection. The north leg of the intersection is curved, undivided and consisted of two lanes (one lane in each direction). The southbound lane of this leg curves to the right and can be used to turn left, right or go straight through the intersection. The southbound travel direction has a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). On the east leg of the intersection is comprised of a six-lane roadway that is divided by a raised median. The east leg consists of four westbound lanes that include a right and left turn lane and two through lanes. The westbound travel direction has a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). This intersection is straight, level and bituminous.

Vehicle one (V1) was a 2005 Chrysler Town and Country with only the driver present. It was southbound in lane two preparing to stop at the light. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Pontiac Torrent with only the driver present, was westbound in lane two, intending to go straight through the intersection. The driver of V1 went to push on her brakes to stop for the red light in her direction when she realized that her dog that was in the vehicle was under the brake pedal. When the dog barked she let off the brake pedal and thus started to enter the intersection. The driver of V1 then saw V2 approaching the intersection. She applied the brakes regardless of the dog but was too late. The front of V1 contacted V2's right side. V1 then rotated clockwise and came to rest on all four tires facing west in lane two of westbound traffic. After impact V2 continued westbound until coming to rest on all four tires facing northwest in lanes two and three. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1 and 0 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 was a twenty-four-year-old female who was driving from the grocery store back home when the crash occurred. She was rested, drives this route weekly and is comfortable with this vehicle. This driver reported being in good health and did not take any medications in the twenty-four hours before the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction.

The driver of V2 was a forty-five-year-old male who was listening to the radio and commuting from work back home when the crash occurred. He was rested, drives this route daily and is comfortable with this vehicle. This driver reported being in good health and did not take any medication in the twenty-four hours before the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.