This crash occurred on a four lane two-way roadway. The roadway was straight, level, asphalt. The speed was posted at 72 kmph (45 mph). It was a clear evening at the beginning of the workweek.

As vehicle 1 a 2004 Chevrolet Cavalier traveled north in lane two the vehicle decelerated to a stop to turn left into the drivers driveway. The driver was waiting for southbound traffic to clear. There was a large van in lane two of the southbound lanes waiting to turn left into the shopping center. There was a SUV in the shopping center left turn lane waiting to turn left onto the southbound roadway. As the driver of V1 waited to turn the driver thought the roadway was clear to make his left turn into the driveway. As the driver started the turn crossing over lane two into lane one he was contacted on the right front side by vehicle 2 a 1997 Buick Regal that had merged to lane one from lane two to travel around the van that was waiting to turn left into the shopping center. After contact V1 rotated counter clockwise to final rest facing south in the center of lane one and two. V2 traveled off the roadway to contact the mailbox post on the lawn of the home of V1. The driver of V1 was checked out on scene but refused transport to the local ER unit. His wife took the driver of V1 later that evening to the local ER unit to be looked at. His vehicle was towed from the scene due to damage. The driver of V2 and her passenger were transported to a local ER unit due to injuries. V2 was driven away from the scene by a relative to there home just five houses back down the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 43 year-old male who stated he is in good health but is taking medication for high blood presser at this time drove V1. He also stated he does not wear corrective lenses at this time. He stated he had just driven 65 miles or so home from work. This was his first day back to work after a week of vacation. He was traveling north in lane two and had came to a stop to turn left into his driveway. He stated a van had come to a stop in lane two of the southbound lanes to make a left turn into the shopping center across from his home. There was an SUV in the shopping center lot waiting to turn left into the southbound lanes. He stated he did not see any vehicles coming south after looking to his right at the SUV and started to make his left turn into his driveway. He crossed lane one of the southbound lanes and was contacted at the front right side of his vehicle. He stated he had no time to react. His vehicle rotated counter clockwise to final rest to face south in the center of lane, 1ane two of the southbound lanes. He stated he did not think he was injured due to the crash so he refused to be transported to an ER unit. He also stated his wife took him later that evening because of pain.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was coded “this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded “turned with obstructed view”. The associated factors to this driver was driver fatigue from drive home from work and the fact that there was a vehicle waiting to turn left into store lot and a vehicle waiting to turn left into southbound lanes from the store parking lot.

A 25 year-old female that stated she is in good health and is taking no medications at this time drove V2. She also stated she does not wear corrective lenses at this time. She stated that she and her fiancé were on there way to do some work on a home they were going to be moving into soon. She stated the two lane roadway had opened to four lanes and a van had put on it's left turn signal to turn into a shopping center so she had moved to lane one and was traveling passed the van as V1 turned left into her path. She did not have time to react and contacted V1 at its right front side. After impact her vehicle traveled up onto the roadside to contact a mailbox post and then coming to final rest. She stated she and her fiancé were transported to the local ER unit form the scene. She stated that her fiancé mother drove their vehicle back to her home where they were staying at this time.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded “other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction - over left lane line”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The associated factor to this driver was the fact that she changed lanes to travel around the vehicle in lane two making a left turn. And the internal distraction of her passenger talking to her about the things they had to do at there new home they were going to work on that evening.