This single vehicle crash occurred on a weekday during early afternoon hours. The location was a three lane divided (without a positive barrier) straight level concrete east/west roadway. A two lane, two way, undivided north/south roadway intersects with the main roadway from the north. Traffic on this street is controlled by a stop sign. The weather was clear and the roads dry. The posted speed limit for the east/west roadway was 64 kmph (40 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1998 Toyota Tacoma pick-up with one occupant, was stopped in the first lane of the southbound roadway. The driver of V1 let several eastbound/westbound vehicles pass in front of him before he entered the intersection with the intention to turn left into lane three of the eastbound lanes. V1 entered the intersection into eastbound lane three and the vehicle immediately entered the median, crossed the three westbound lanes of traffic and departed the roadway to the north. The front of V1 impacted a wooden fence before it struck a tree in a back yard. V1 came to rest facing north at the tree. The vehicle was towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

A 26-year old male was the driver of the vehicle. The driver was well rested, in good health and does not take any medication. He was heading from his cousin's house to his own apartment. The driver does not possess a valid driver's license and rarely drives. His cousin drives him to work every day, using the same intersection. The driver stated he was looking at his turning destination while turning. When he looked to his right (west) again, he noticed a vehicle approaching the intersection at high speed, driving in lane three. The driver accelerated his vehicle to enter lane three and avoid a collision.

The critical per-crash event was coded "this vehicle traveling -off the edge of the road on the left side." The critical reason was coded "driver related factor - poor directional control (e.g., failing to control vehicle with skill ordinarily expected)." Also, he failed to look to his right and notice the non-contact vehicle earlier.