The 2-vehicle crash occurred in the southbound lane of a north south, 2-lane, 2 way, level, straight, bituminous roadway at the intersection of a 2-lane, 2 way, rural, gravel/slag roadway controlled by stop signs. At the time of the weekday, late afternoon crash, it was daylight, the weather was cloudy and the roadway was dry. The posted speed limit for the north-south road was 89kmph (55 mph).

V1, a 2001 Buick LeSabre occupied by a 71 year-old female driver, was northbound in lane 1 of the roadway described above. V2, a 2007 Kenworth semi tractor-trailer occupied by a 45-year old male driver, was southbound in lane 1 of the roadway described above. V1 crossed the centerline and was intending to turn left onto the rural road described above. V2 saw V1 come over into his lane and tried to avoid V1 by braking and steering onto the right shoulder. V2 was unable to avoid hitting V1. V1, front, contacted V2, front. V1 rotated counterclockwise and exited the roadway to the east coming to rest on the east side of the roadway facing southeast. V2 came to rest on the right shoulder facing south-southeast at final rest. Both drivers were transported due to injuries. V1 was towed and V2 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 stated that she was on her way home from helping her husband pick-up a new car from a local dealership and was following him. She was not supposed to be driving their old car home because they were supposed to be trading it in. She was upset with the trade-in amount offered by the dealership and that is why she was driving it home with no plates (in an agitated state). Her husband saw V2 and had plenty of time to turn left but hoped his wife would not try to turn left until after V2 had gone by. The driver of V1 started to turn left stating that she never saw V2.

The Critical pre-crash event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling turning left at intersection". The Critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was the driver's “inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see)”. Some contributing factors on the part of V1 include the driver being irritated and upset at the beginning of the trip (she had driven less then ½ and hour), her thinking about the argument she had just had with the dealership, her being unfamiliar with the route home and her lane departure before attempting her turn.

The driver of V2 stated that he was southbound in lane 1 doing about 55 mph when he saw V1 cross the centerline and thought she was attempting to pass another northbound vehicle. He let up on the gas pedal and then saw that V1 was going to try to turn left. He then "stood" on the brakes and steered right trying to avoid V1. He couldn't steer left as there was oncoming traffic and he didn't steer sharply right as he was trying to avoid jackknifing the trailer. He said he had his lights on but did not see V1 using a turn signal. He felt the impact with V1 and was afraid it was under the truck. He shut everything off before exiting his vehicle trying to prevent a fire from starting.

The Critical pre-crash event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction-over left lane line". The Critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle. V1 was not overloaded, the vehicle was in good mechanical condition and the driver was properly licensed for and familiar with his vehicle. He was also familiar with the road.

A witness interview was obtained and supports the description of the crash events as stated above.