The 2-vehicle crash occurred in the westbound lane of a, two-way, two-lane, wet, bituminous, straight, level roadway. The speed limit was 89 kmph (55 mph). At the time of the mid-morning, weekday crash it was daylight and raining.

V1, a 1993 Jeep Wrangler occupied by a 24-year-old female driver and a 4-year-old male passenger, was eastbound in lane one. V2, a 2006 Chevrolet Malibu occupied by a 69 year-old male driver and a 70 year-old female passenger, was westbound in lane one of the same roadway. The right side tires of V1 contacted standing water, the vehicle crossed the centerline and entered the westbound lane while rotating clockwise 180 degrees. V2's front, contacted the rear of V1. V1 came to rest facing south-southwest in the westbound lane. V2 came to rest off the north side of the roadway facing north-northwest. All of the occupants of both vehicles were transported. Both vehicles were towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1stated that she was eastbound at about 72 kmph (45 mph) and going to a doctor's appointment when she saw the large puddle in her lane. She also saw V2 approaching from the opposite direction so she could not swerve around the standing water. She hit the puddle and the vehicle started rotating clockwise. She was just hanging on with both hands on the wheel when the car turned backwards and was struck in the rear by V2. She was familiar with both the car and the roadway and was not in a hurry.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was coded "this vehicle control loss due to poor road conditions (puddle, pot hole, ice, etc.)". The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was a driver related factor, performance error of "road design - poor drainage". Some contributing factors on the part of V1 include the standing water >1/4 inch deep covering a portion of the eastbound roadway while it was raining, insufficient evasive actions on the part of the driver and her medications combined with a lack of restful sleep.

The driver of V2 stated that he was westbound in lane one going at or about 89 kmph (55 mph) when he saw V1 spin clockwise and come over into his lane backwards. He said that he only had time to lift his right foot from the gas and begin to brake before his car impacted the back of V1. He was coming home from exercising at a local medical facility and was familiar with both the roadway and the vehicle.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was coded "other vehicle encroachment from the opposite direction- over left lane line". The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. Some contributing factors on the part of V1 include the rain and the wet condition of the road, the driver's possible fatigue after just working out, the driver's pre-existing condition of sleep apnea and his lack of knowledge that caution was required.