Case #2007-146

The crash occurred in the westbound lane of a two-way, two-lane roadway. This was a straight, level, asphalt street, with a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). There were no traffic controls present. Conditions were dark with streetlights on a weekday evening. The weather was cloudy, and the road surface condition was wet. Traffic flow was normal. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1 and 0 kmph for V2.

V1, a 2007 Lincoln Navigator with one occupant, was backing southward onto the roadway from a front yard. V2, a 1996 Honda Accord with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane one. V1 backed out in front of V2. The front of V2 made contact with the right side of V1. V2 was towed due to damage.

The Lincoln Navigator was driven by a 31-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he looked both ways before backing out. According to the motorist, he saw the other driver coming, but believed that the other driver had moved to the left lane (the oncoming traffic lane) in order to allow him to back out onto the roadway. He believed that the other driver then swerved back into his original lane because of an oncoming eastbound vehicle. There was no merit to the driver's description of crash events. When contacted after the crash, the driver declined to be interviewed.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “other - this vehicle entering roadway from a driveway (backing)”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related recognition error, inadequate surveillance. Although the driver stated that he saw V2, it is believed that he in fact did not see V2 prior to backing up. The driver either did not look, or took a cursory glance in the required direction and did not see the other driver. One environmental associated factor for the driver was wet roads. No additional associated factors could be determined for this driver due to lack of cooperation.

The Honda Accord was driven by an 89-year old male, who was transported to the hospital due to injuries. He stated that he was on his way home from a bowling alley, where he had been watching a friend bowl. The driver advised that he was heading westbound, when another vehicle pulled out in front of him. He said that the other driver pulled out so fast that he didn't realize at first exactly what he had hit. The motorist indicated that he tried to stop, but did not have sufficient distance to do so.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was “other vehicle encroachment - from driveway across path”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factor present for the driver of V2 was wet roads.