This crash occurred on a straight 4 lane undivided roadway and is intersection related. There was no grade on this roadway and the posted speed limit was 72KMPH (45MPH). The grade of the driveway was -6%. The weather was clear and the roadways were dry.

Vehicle #2, a 2002 Honda Accord, was traveling east on the 4-lane roadway when it impacted with the front left of Vehicle #2, a 1995 Mercury Mystique, with its front. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Both vehicles came to final rest facing a northeasterly direction. Both vehicles were towed due to damage.

The Mercury Mystique (Vehicle #1) was driven by a belted 18 year old male who refused to be interviewed. He was transported to an area hospital with possible injuries, treated and released. This driver stated to police that tree foliage obstructed is view of Vehicle #2. It should be noted here that there were no trees in the immediate area and low shrubs did not block the view.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to Vehicle #1 was: This Vehicle Traveling, Turning Left at Intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was coded as: Driver Related Factor, Inadequate Surveillance.

The Honda Accord (Vehicle #2) was driven by a belted 52-year-old female who stated she saw Vehicle #1 come out of the driveway intersection 20 feet before impact. She stated she said to herself "Oh my god, he's not stopping". She stated she did not have time to take steering avoidance actions but did use her brake. She stated she saw the vehicle coming out of the driveway without pausing or stopping and that the view was not obstructed.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to Vehicle #2 was: Other Vehicle Encroachment, From Driveway, Turning into Opposite Direction. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to Vehicle #2.

Police did not consider alcohol or illegal drugs to be a factor in this crash and ordered no tests for either driver. No summonses were issued in this crash.