This two vehicle daytime collision occurred, shortly before the noon hour, at a T-intersection comprised of a north/south roadway and an east/west roadway. The north/south roadway is dry, undivided, asphalt, has a downgrade slope, curves southeast, and consists of two lanes. The east/west roadway is dry, level, undivided, curves right for westbound traffic, and consists of five lanes. North of the east/west roadways exists a two-lane, dry, undivided, downgrade sloped, private driveway. A stop sign regulates traffic from the north/south roadway unto the east/west roadway. Both roadways are designated 56 kmph (35 mph) zones.

Vehicle one (V1) is an unknown model 1996 Volvo station wagon. V1 was driven by a thirty two (32) year old male that was traveling westbound in the number one lane. Vehicle two (V2) is a 1997 Mercedes-Benz SL500 two-door convertible driven by a seventy nine (79) year old female. V2 was traveling eastbound in the number three lane. As V2 attempted a left turn into a private driveway, its right plane was contacted by the front plane of V1. V2 rotated clockwise towards the north edge of the roadway. The front plane of V2 contacted two private signs and then contacted a stone wall. V2 came to rest facing northeast against the stone wall. V1 fled the scene with minor damage. V2 received major damage and was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason was not assigned to this vehicle. The police report statement by the driver with attorney present indicate that the driver takes the medication Lamictal and he had an anxiety disorder. This was a new medication for this driver and he said he could not sleep for four days when he first started the medication. He was on his way to a therapist appointment when the crash occurred. The driver stated that after the crash he panicked and drove away, and later found his self at home 1.6 kilometers (1 mile) away. Based on the drivers description contained in the police report he was attentive to the driving task and aware of V2's presence before she turned in front of him. Other factors are unknown for this driver due to lack of an interview.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was assigned to V2 as driver related factor: "inadequate surveillance" (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). The driver was looking left and did not see V1 coming towards her vehicle. She takes an unspecified medication for high blood pressure. She had been driving around the neighborhood to get phone numbers of homes for sale and was then on her way to a hotel where she was staying.