This single vehicle collision occurred on a west/east Interstate highway couple of hours before mid-night. The highway is divided, wet, level, concrete, and consists of five lanes. An asphalt median borders the highway's south edge. South of the median exists a concrete center divider. The center divider separates the westbound lanes from the eastbound lanes of the highway. An asphalt shoulder borders the north edge of the highway. A call box exists north of the shoulder. The call box is surrounded by wood boards that distinguish the area. Inside the wood box area exists a call box on a metal pole. Inside the box area exists a raised concrete curb that runs perpendicular to the highway. A sloped embankment area covered in bushes surrounds the call box area. The highway is designated a 104 kmph (65 mph) zone.

Vehicle one (V1) is a 1995 BMW 525i four-door sedan, driven by a forty eight (48) year old female. V1 was traveling westbound in the number four lane. As V1 traveled, it began to hydroplane across all lanes. V1 rotated counter-clockwise across the lanes. The rear plane of V1 contacted the wood boards of the call box area. The rear plane of V1 then contacted the call box's metal pole. The rear plane contacted the raised concrete curb as it continued. The rear plane contacted the foliage as it proceeded up the embankment. It contacted the embankment with its rear plane. V1 rolled unto its right plane as it returned unto the highway. V1 came to rest on its roof facing northwest blocking the number one lane and the shoulder. V1 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; off the edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason was coded as a vehicle related factor: other tire degradation. The vehicle's tires had insufficient tread depth & tire pressure. The driver reported that she was traveling 16 kmph (10 mph) under the posted speed limit, however the investigating officer indicated she was traveling the posted speed limit. Three of the tires on V1 had 1 mm (1/32") of tread depth & the fourth tire had 3 mm (4 /32") tread depth. During the post crash vehicle inspection, the front tires were underinflated from recommended pressure by at least 56 kpa (8 psi). The right rear tire was underinflated by 90 kpa (13 psi); and the left rear was nearly flat being underinflated by 200 kpa (29 psi).