This crash occurred just after noon on a weekday on the roadsides of a two-lane undivided rural roadway that featured a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The roadway was dry and level at the second road departure. The roadway curved to the left in the northbound direction and was controlled by a curve warning sign with a suggested speed of 48 kmph (30 mph). Traffic flow was normal but the weather was cloudy and overcast.

V1, a 2004 Chevrolet Aveo, was northbound on the roadway negotiating the curve to the left. V1 drove off the right side of the roadway into a small ditch. V1 continued along the ditch until the driver corrected to the left and re-entered the roadway. V1 crossed the northbound lane into the southbound lane. There was a non-contact vehicle traveling in the southbound lane. The driver then steered right to avoid the non-contact vehicle and began to rotate counter-clockwise. V1 continued to rotate counterclockwise across the northbound lane, off the right side of the roadway and struck the end of a split rail fence with its left side. V1 continued and came to rest facing in and easterly direction. This is the end of the first crash sequence and not a part of the case crash sequence. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

V1 then proceeded forward, re-entered the roadway and continued northbound. V1 drove off the right side of the roadway and struck a guide wire with its front. V1 re-entered the roadway and crossed both lanes of traffic before departing the off the left side. V1 then struck a stonewall and small sapling with its front before coming to final rest facing northwest off the roadway. V1 was towed due to damage.

The driver of V1, an unbelted 36-year-old female, was uninjured in the crash. She was transported for a BAC test, which she later refused. She stated that she had been on her way home from work, when she lost control of her car and went off the road. She does not have a clear recollection, but thinks the car was spinning before the crash. She said that this was the first time she had driven on this roadway. She also stated that she was in good health, and was not on any medications. She later disclosed that she had recently taken herself off her depression medication (7 days prior to the crash). An acquaintance who arrived at the scene stated to the police that the “driver was clinically depressed and on a new type of anti-depressant medication”. She was thinking about personal problems relating to her medications and she said that her mind “was racing big time” at the time of the crash. She had worked 50 hours in the past week. The driver also said that she had not slept well in the past seven days, citing only three hours of sleep in the past 24 hours. She felt drowsy, stressed and depressed at the beginning of this trip.

A witness to the crash who was on his front lawn, stated that he heard her before he saw her because the squeal of tires and brakes. She hit a fence after she tried to avoid a pick-up truck and ended up on my neighbor's lawn. She backed up and went back on the road, pulled back over to the right and hit some trees. Then she went across the road, off the left side hit some trees and a wall. The witness ran over to car to check on the driver and the “booze smell hit me”. She put the car in reverse and tried to back up, but the witness reached in and took her car keys.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was poor directional control, a driver performance error. Associated factors coded to this driver include inattention due to her thinking about her personal problems, driver fatigue, and inexperience, as it was her first time on the roadway. The driver was also suffering from untreated depression and symptoms of withdrawal. Police believed alcohol to be involved; however the driver refused the test.