This two-vehicle crash occurred on a curbed median-divided trafficway. The westbound lanes are straight, level and consist of three through lanes. The speed limit for this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Cadillac STS, was stopped westbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Ford Econoline E350 van, was westbound in lane one. The front of V2 struck the back of V1. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1 and 0 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a sixty-three-year-old female, was on her way from work to pick up her husband from work. She was in fair health, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. She has high blood pressure and depression and takes the medications Benicar, Lexapro and aspirin. This driver stated that she ran out of gas and stopped in the travel lane. She further stated that she did not remember if she had turned on the vehicle hazard lights. This driver saw V2 approaching behind her but could not attempt any avoidance maneuvers.

The driver of V2, a twenty-three-year-old female, was on the way home from the dentist with a fourteen-year-old female passenger. This driver was well rested, healthy and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver has work stress related to an adversarial relationship with her coworkers and had had an argument within the six-hour period prior to the crash. She stated that she and her passenger had noticed some boys off the right side of the road ahead and that her passenger became excited and was trying to get the boys' attention. This driver stated that she was looking at and talking to her passenger as well as looking at the boys. She further stated that she did not see V1 prior to the crash. This driver had one year of driving experience at the time of the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane; other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction, for looking at the passenger. This driver's focus on the boys as well as her inexperience were associated factors in this crash. The traffic flow interruption caused by V1 being disabled in the roadway was also an associated factor.