The crash occurred on a bituminous two lane undivided roadway with a posted speed limit of 64 KPH (40 MPH). The roadway had a -2.3% grade. It was raining, the roadway was wet and it was daylight at the time of the weekday afternoon crash. Traffic flow was normal for that time of day.

V1, a 2002 Chevrolet Silverado pickup, was traveling south on the roadway. V1 drove off the right side of the roadway and struck a delineator with its front. V1 continued forward, struck and sheared a 28 cm diameter pole. V1 continued and struck a delineator with its front. V1 continued, crossed over a side roadway, struck a roadway sign with its front. The sign became dislodged and struck the windshield of V1. V1 continued off the side of the connecting roadway into a ditch and the front of V1 struck the back slope of the ditch. V1 came to rest facing south. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

V1, the Chevrolet Silverado, was driven by a belted 60-year-old male who was not injured. The driver stated that he was on his way home from visiting friends, traveling approximately 45 mph. He was thinking about being home in 20 minutes and was not in a hurry. He indicated that he wasn't exactly sure what happened, that he had been driving along and suddenly the truck went off the road to the right. He attempted to steer left, but the vehicle would not turn. He considered himself in good health and advised that he had recent back surgery. He took prescription medications and wore glasses for a myopic (near-sighted) condition.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was poor direction control, a driver related performance error. This was chosen because the driver was attentive, had negotiated a curve and drove off the road. Associated factors coded to this driver were the use of prescription medications and wet roads, a roadway related factor.