This two-vehicle crash occurred on a straight, level roadway, approaching a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. This roadway consists of two lanes in each direction and a center left turn lane. The speed limit on this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions. Traffic was congested at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Jeep Cherokee, was eastbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1984 Pontiac Fiero, was eastbound in lane one, slowing for the stopped vehicles in front of him. Traffic was stopped due to a red traffic signal. V1 moved into lane one and the front struck the back of V2. V1 then traveled off the right side of the road and the front struck a concrete wall. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a fifty-eight-year-old male, was on his way to work from his home. He was in fairly good health, well rested and familiar with his vehicle and the roadway. This driver has high blood pressure and diabetes and takes the medications Clonidine, Calcitric, Diadon, Flexfloruitine, Nephedrine, Lisinopril and Synthroid. This driver stated that he steered to the right when he realized that the vehicles in front of him were stopped.

The driver of V2, a twenty-four-year-old male, was traveling from a bank to his home. He was well rested, healthy and comfortable with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that he was slowing and did not see V1 until just before the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others. Vehicles ahead were slowing/stopping. This driver's lack of braking was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.