This crash occurred on a north/south roadway with 5 lanes of travel. There were 2 lanes in each direction with the center lane as a left turn lane in both directions. The roadway was straight, dry, level, asphalt. The speed was posted at 72 kmph (45mph). The weather was clear and sunny.

As vehicle 1 a 2008 Ford Taurus was traveling south in lane 2 the driver could not find the urgent care facility that his company was sending him to for care. This driver then moved over to lane 1 and came to a stop at the side of the roadway. The driver then located the care office to his left on the other side on the roadway. The driver then checked traffic and proceeded to make a U-turn on the roadway-contacting vehicle 2 a 1970 Dodge dart swinger on its left side rotating V2 counter clockwise 180°. V2 then traveled off the roadway to contact the curb then sliding across the grass to contact large boulders that were set for landscaping in front of the offices on the east side of the roadway. V2 then rotated clockwise to final rest to face southeast for final rest. V1 rotated counter clockwise to final rest facing northwest in lane 1 and 2 of the northbound lanes. The drivers of both vehicles where transported to local trauma units due to injuries. Also both vehicles were towed from the scene due to vehicle damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 30 year-old male that stated he is in good health drove V1. This driver also stated he is taking no medications at this time but does wear corrective lenses for myopic - nearsightedness. This driver stated he was not from this area and was in town on business. He also stated he was not feeling very good so the company he was in the area doing work for sent him to the urgent care office they send workers to if they are hurt on the job. This driver stated he had a map-quest for direction to help him find the office. This driver stated he was traveling south in lane 2 and had moved into lane 3 (the left turn lane) to turn into the doctor's office parking lot. He stated the traffic was heavy at the time and after 5 to 10 seconds of watching traffic he thought there was room for him to make his left turn into the parking lot. He stated that as he started his turn a northbound vehicle came down the street and V1's front hit V2's left side rotating V1 to face northwest for final rest. He also stated after final rest he was dazed and did not remember much.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded “other - making a U-turn”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded driver related factor - decision error - “illegal maneuver”. The associated factors to this driver where the fact that this was the first time on this roadway and being in this area of the city. Also the distraction of looking for the Doctors office and that the driver was not feeling very well at the time of the crash.

A 56 year-old male that stated he is in good health drove V2. This driver also stated he is taking no medications at this time. He also stated he does wear corrective lenses for myopic-nearsightedness. He stated he had just finished some work on his vehicle and thought he would take it for a ride to see how it drove. He stated he was traveling north in lane 1 going to the store to buy himself a coke. He stated he had traveled about 4 miles on the roadway. A vehicle had passed his vehicle on his left side. He thought he saw something black on his left side than he stated his vehicle was rotating in a different direction and hitting other objects coming to final rest, he stated it was very hard to breath and his chest had a lot of pain. He stated his lap belt ripped out of the floor mount due to the impact. He did not wear the shoulder strap because in that year vehicle the shoulder belt came across his face. He stated a woman came to his side and asked if he was hurt and told him to stay still that she had called 911. He stated she asked him if he would like a drink of water and after taking it he was concerned about internal injuries that the water would cause problem with. He was told it would be ok and to stay still.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded “other vehicle encroachment - form opposite direction over left lane line”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The associated factors to this driver was the distraction of the driver listening to his vehicle as he drove north on the roadway because of the work he had just finished on the vehicle.

Witness #1 stated she saw V1 contacting V2 and both vehicles traveling to final rest. She stated she thought V1 was in the left turn lane but was not sure. She also stated she was a nurse and she pulled her vehicle over to the side of the roadway calling 911 and going to the aid of the driver of V2 because of the severe damage to the vehicle.

Witness #2 stated he was in his driveway on the west side of the roadway waiting to pull out onto the roadway and travel south. He stated as he waited V1 was traveling south in lane 2 then pulling over to the west curb in lane 1 the vehicle came to a stop. The driver of V1 was looking around as if he were lost. He did not want to pull out onto the roadway not knowing what the driver of V1 was going to do. He then stated that V1 accelerated very fast and made a u-turn from the curb lane to contact V2 in the left side. He stated that V2 rotated up onto the front two wheels rotating 180° then sliding across the driveway on the east side of the roadway to contact the curb the contact the large boulders on the lawn of the offices on the east side of the roadway coming to final rest facing south.

This researcher has found from scene evidence that V2 was traveling north in lane 2 and that the driver of V1 was at a stop in lane 1 of the southbound lane before making a u-turn on the roadway and that this driver was not in the left turn lane as he had stated in his interview.