This two-vehicle crash occurred in the early morning hours on a weekday, on a north/south roadway in the middle of a four-way intersection. The intersection was composed of a three-lane, two-way east/west roadway, which was intersected by a north/south roadway. The north/south roadway had three lanes in the northbound direction and four lanes in the southbound direction. All four directions of the intersection were controlled by traffic lights. The bituminous roadway was straight and dry. The northbound traffic upon which vehicle one (V1) was traveling was level; however, the southbound traffic upon which vehicle two (V2) was traveling had a positive grade of two percent. The posted speed limit for both vehicles was 72 kmph (45 mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash, and traffic flow was congested due to rush hour traffic.

Vehicle one, a 2000 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan, was traveling north in lane two intending to make a left at the intersection. Vehicle two, a 1984 International dump truck, was heading south on the roadway in lane two, intending to continue straight through the intersection. As V1 attempted the turn, the front of the vehicle made contact with the front left of the dump truck. After the impact, V1 rotated counter clockwise approximately 130 degrees before coming to final rest facing south in the intersection. Vehicle two continued forward and came to a controlled stop on the right side of the southbound roadway. Vehicle one suffered severe damage and had to be removed from the scene. Vehicle two suffered minimal damage and was removed from the scene due to a flat tire. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a 28 year-old female suffered unknown injuries, but did not require transport to a medical facility. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A complete interview was obtained from this driver. She relayed that she had just dropped her son off at daycare and was heading to work (part of her daily routine). She saw V2, but had thought the truck was going to make a right at the intersection. Therefore she attempted to make her left turn when she was struck by the truck. She related that she was in good health and was not taking any medication on the day of or in the days prior to the crash. She was familiar with the area and was well rested when the trip began. She also claimed that her vehicle was in good driving condition and that no mechanical problems contributed to this crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event coded to this vehicle was: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as: false assumption of other's actions. One associated factor coded to this vehicle was rush hour traffic.

The driver of V2, a 30 year-old male, did not suffer any injuries as a result of the crash and did not require any medical treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A partial interview was conducted with this driver on-scene. He relayed that he was traveling straight through the intersection with a steady green light. He had noticed the other vehicle attempting to make a left turn in front of him, at which point he tried to avoid the crash by steering left and applying the brakes. He claimed that he was not fatigued and was in good health. He also related that he was familiar with the area.

The Critical Pre-crash Event coded to this vehicle was: other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. One other associated factor coded for this vehicle was congestion due to rush hour traffic.