The crash occurred in the northbound lane two of a six-lane roadway with a large grass median dividing the three northbound lanes from the three southbound lanes. This was a dry, bituminous road with a posted speed of 80 kmph (50 mph). This was a straight, level road with a 10.6 meter paved portion of the median (a crossover) allowing access between the north and southbound direction of traffic. There was a two-lane undivided road on the east side of the northbound road opposite the median crossover. Lane three in the northbound direction was a left turn-only lane. The crash occurred in the mid-afternoon on a clear day.

V1, a 1992 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was driven by an 18 year-old male. The driver stated that he had dropped off his sister and was on his way home when the crash occurred. He was traveling north in lane two at a rate of 105 kmph (65 mph) when V2, a large truck, crossed over the northbound lanes, from a side road on the right, toward the median crossover. The driver assumed, incorrectly, that V2 would clear the roadway prior to his arrival. When he realized that the rear portion V2 was partially blocked the left side of lane two he locked up the brakes, skidding 42 meters into the right rear undercarriage of V2 with the left front portion of V1. The driver was transported due to injuries. The police officer on scene stated that he estimated, from the skid marks and vehicle damage, that V1 was traveling 121 kmph (75 mph) prior to the crash event. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a GMC medium/heavy straight truck with a total length of 9.5 meters (24 feet) was driven by a 46 year old male traveling with two male passengers. He stated that he saw V1 at a distance prior to crossing over to the median access. He was stopped between the north and southbound lanes waiting for the southbound lanes to clear so he could complete his left turn. The rear portion of the truck, the back of the cargo area, still occupied part of lane two when the accident occurred. None of the occupants were injured.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was "Other motor vehicle in lane, in crossover." The Critical Reason for the Pre-Crash Event was "Incorrect evasive action," a decision error. The driver didn't check to see if lane one was open, avoiding a crash by changing lanes. Associated factors include speeding, not being very familiar with the roadway or the vehicle, and driver inexperience.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors for this driver included a misjudgment of the velocity of V1 and a false assumption in that the driver of V2 assumed that V1 would yield the right of way to him.