The crash occurred in both the westbound lanes and the eastbound lanes of a four-lane roadway divided by a grass median at a crossover. There were two lanes in eastbound and two lanes westbound. The roadway was straight and dry asphalt. Before the crossover the westbound lanes had a 4% slope downhill to the west. The crossover itself was level. The eastbound lanes had a 4% slope downhill to the east. The posted speed limit was 89kph (55mph). There were no traffic control devices. The crash occurred at midday on a weekday while skies were clear and traffic was moderate.

V1, 2000 Chevy Astro van with one occupant, was traveling west in lane two. V2, a 2004 Saturn Ion four door with one occupant, was westbound in lane two ahead of V1. V3, a 2003 Kia Sorento four door SUV with two occupants, was traveling eastbound in lane two. A non-contact vehicle was traveling westbound in lane two ahead of V2. The non-contact vehicle had been stopping and going for a while giving the impression that is was unsure where it was going. It slowed down and signaled as it approached the crossover. V2 also slowed down behind the non-contact vehicle. V1 was traveling at a higher rate of speed and braked with lockup in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid V2. The front left of V1 struck the rear right of V2 (Event 1) causing it to veer to the left out of control in a counter-clockwise rotation, across the tip of the median and diagonally across the crossover, into the path of the oncoming V3. V3 braked with lockup in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid striking V2. V3's front left stuck the right rear of V2 (Event 2). V1 came to rest westbound in lane 2 approximately 43m west of the first impact. The second impact was about 35m southwest of the first impact. V2 came to rest facing southeast across eastbound lane one about three meters from the second impact. V3 came to rest facing northeast in eastbound lane one within two meters of the second impact. V1 left the scene prior to researcher arrival. V2 and V3 were towed from the scene due to damage. The non-contact vehicle never turned it continued straight down the street. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Chevy Astro van, was driven by a 51-year old male who was not injured. The driver said that he was traveling 89-97kph (55-60mph). He refused to answer questions and said he needed to consult with his attorney before talking to the researcher or allowing an inspection. He said that he had been watching the non-contact vehicle stop and go quite a while. The driver was concentrating on the actions of the non-contact vehicle. When he looked at V2, he noticed it slowing down suddenly ahead of him but was unable to stop before striking V2. The driver also claimed that the driver of the non- contact vehicle ahead of V2 was talking on a cell phone while he was driving. The driver of the non-contact vehicle denied to the researcher that he was talking on a cell phone. The researcher, after talking to both the drivers of V1 and V2 and overhearing conversations at the scene, believes that the non-contact driver was being dishonest.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was “other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction while decelerating”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded driver related, “external distraction”. The driver did not expect either the non-contact vehicle or V2 to slow down in front of him. He skidded about 25 m before he impacted V2.

V2, the Saturn Ion, was driven by a 64-year old female, who was coded for possible injury and transported to a hospital. The driver reported that she was on her way from home to a doctor's office and was traveling at an unknown speed behind the non-contact vehicle. She said the driver of that vehicle appeared to be talking on a cell phone and that he signaled a left turn as he slowed down ahead of her. It then sped up and later slowed down again. She advised that before the non-contact vehicle or she got to the crossover she glanced into her rear view mirror and saw V1 approaching her from behind at a higher rate of speed. She said she pumped her brakes to avoid the non-contact vehicle and then was struck from behind by V1. She added that the impact pushed her off the left edge of the road and caused her to veer across the median into the path of V3, which then struck her.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was “other motor vehicle in lane traveling in the same direction with higher speed”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle.

V3, the Kia Sorento, was driven by a 39-year old male who was not injured. His female passenger in the right front seat was also coded as non-injured but she was transported to a hospital. The driver reported that he was returning home from a doctor's appointment traveling about 80kph (50mph) when he noticed V2 skidding across the crossover median out of control. He said he applied his brakes without lockup but was not able to avoid a collision with V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event and the Critical Reason for the Critical Event were not coded for V3 since it was not involved in the first harmful event.