The crash occurred in an intersection of a divided roadway and an exit ramp from a highway. On the divided east/west roadway, there were two medians, one to divide the roadway for a left turn-only lane, and to the left of that, a median for the eastbound lanes. The crash occurred in the westbound lanes, which had 3 lanes that were straight, bituminous, and level. The speed limit was 56kmph (35 mph). The intersecting exit ramp from the highway had two lanes that were both right turn-only lanes. It was the early afternoon on a weekday around the lunch hour. Traffic flow was light.

V1, a 1996 Toyota Camry four door sedan, was driven by a 48-year-old male who was traveling with his neighbor's 13-year-old son in the front passenger seat. V1 was traveling in lane two of the westbound lanes at a rate of about 35 mph (56 kmph). As V1 neared the intersection with the ramp, the driver saw another vehicle, V2, suddenly enter the intersection. V2 was a 2006 Mercedes SLK 280 convertible that had been on the ramp in the second lane of travel. V2 turned right at the intersection, attempting to immediately get into the third westbound lane. The driver of V1 pumped his brakes and slowed down and then swerved over to the left to avoid a collision; however, the left side of V2 struck the right side of V1. Following this impact, the front left of V1 the struck the median on the left side and partially rode onto the median, thus puncturing the left front tire. V1 came to final rest facing west in the third westbound lane, while V2 came to rest facing west straddling lanes two and three. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 stated that V2 just kept coming through the intersection and did not stop. He reported that the driver of V2 got out of the car and began apologizing. He said when the ambulance arrived, she began stating that she was in severe pain and that she then told police that V1 ran the red light. The driver of V1 speculated that the driver of V2 might have been using a cell phone at the time of the crash because of the way she was positioned when he saw her - her right hand was by her ear. The driver and his passenger were not injured from the crash.

V2, the 2006 Mercedes, was driven by a 54-year-old female. The driver of V2 reported that she was sitting at the traffic light for about one minute and proceeded after the light turned green. As she was turning right to head westbound, she struck V1 on its right side. She said she never saw V1 when she was turning right. She said she doesn't know who is to blame but she knows that she had the green light. She said she injured her knee from the accident. She also stated that she has diabetes and that she started to go into shock after the crash. She also stated that police never took a statement from her on the scene and they never came to the hospital when she was admitted. The driver and her husband also said that police had witnesses on scene stating that V1 "may" have run red light but they put no witnesses on the accident report.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane (same direction) over right lane. There was no Critical Reason coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to this driver was a false assumption of other road user's actions, because the driver saw V1 at the intersection but assumed she would not pull out into his lane.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was this vehicle traveling, turning right at intersection. The Critical Reason for Critical Pre-crash Event was a driver related error of inadequate surveillance (failed to look). An associated factor coded to this driver was the physical condition of diabetes, for which this driver takes insulin.

*The officer on-scene stated that there are a lot of accidents at this particular intersection. He stated that he thought that if there were a 'No Turn on Red' sign or a red arrow TCD, the number of crashes would decrease.