The crash occurred in the center of a "T" intersection composed of a two-lane north/south roadway, and a two-lane parking lot driveway. Both roadways were bituminous. The north/south roadway had a 3 percent downhill grade and a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45mph). The driveway was level with no posted speed limit. A stop sign controlled traffic exiting the driveway roadway. It was around noon on a weekday. The roads were dry and the traffic flow was moderate. It should be noted that a large landscaping truck and trailer were parked on the shoulder just south of the driveway.

V1, a 2006 Hyundai Azera 4-door sedan with one occupant, was exiting the parking lot when it attempted to turn left at the intersection after observing the stop sign. The front of V1 struck V2 on the right front side. V2, a 2000 Toyota Celica 2-door with one occupant, was traveling north in lane one. As V2 passed through the intersection it was struck by V1 on the right side. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 71-year-old male who reported no injuries, stated that he stopped at the stop sign and looked left then right before proceeding to make his left turn. The driver stated that a large truck was blocking his view of the northbound traffic, so he edged out, looked again, and not seeing any vehicles, proceeded to make his turn. V1 made no avoidance maneuver.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling -turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "Turned with obstructed view," a driver related error. Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include the physical conditions of high blood pressure and heart disease, the use of several prescription medications, and a sightline restriction caused by the truck parked on the side of the northbound roadway.

The driver of V2, a 26-year-old female, reported no injuries. The driver stated that she was traveling at approximately 72 kmph (45 mph) as she entered the intersection, when V1 attempted to turn left out of the driveway and struck her vehicle on the right side. V2 attempted to avoid the collision by applying her brakes and steering left.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment - from driveway, turning into opposite direction." No Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. The following associated factors were assigned: driver inattention due to worry about job interview, the physical condition of having an ulcer, the use of prescription medication, unfamiliarity with the roadway, and a sightline restriction caused by the truck parked on the side of the roadway.