The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a two-way, seven-lane roadway, which was divided by a concrete curbed median. There were three northbound lanes, with a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). This was a straight, level, and asphalt roadway. Conditions were daylight on a weekday morning, with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 1998 Toyota Corolla with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane two. V2, a 1998 Toyota Corolla with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane one. For unknown reasons, the driver of V1 crossed over the right lane line. The right side of V1 made contact with the left side of V2. V1 then traveled back into lane two, and then entered the right lane once again. The right side of V1 made contact with the left side of V2 for a second time. V2 traveled off the roadway to the right, striking the curb with the right front and right rear tire rims. V2 continued northbound, coming to final rest on the sidewalk. V1 also traveled off the right side of the roadway. The left front tire and right front tire struck the curb, as V1 went onto the sidewalk. The front of V1 then made contact with a tree, followed by a concrete wall. V1 came to final rest against the wall, approximately twelve meters away from V2. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 45 kmph for V1 and 45 kmph for V2.

V1, the gold Toyota Corolla, was driven by an 81-year old female, who was transported to the hospital due to injury. She stated that she was on her way to a doctor's appointment. She left her house early, so that she wouldn't have to rush. Along the way, the motorist got lost. She drove around aimlessly, trying to get back to the roadway that would get her to her appointment. At some point, the driver decided to forgo the doctor's visit altogether, and began looking for a familiar street that would take her back home. Eventually the driver found a familiar street. She turned north, heading toward her domicile. The driver claimed that there was nobody around her just before the crash. She didn't know where the other car came from, or just how the crash happened. The motorist insisted that she did not change lanes, which conflicted with her initial statement to police. The driver felt a bump, and then lost control of her vehicle. She criticized the other driver for apparently passing her on the right, believing that it is customary to pass on the left.

The Critical Precash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on right side of travel lane". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related performance error, poor directional control. It is believed that the driver was attempting to stay in her travel lane, but failed to control her vehicle with the skill ordinarily expected of a good driver. A recognition-related factor for the motorist was driver inattention. The motorist was focused on internal thought processes relating to concerns about being lost, and about missing her doctor's appointment. Physical-related factors for the driver included three pre-existing health conditions: stenosis of the spine (herniated spine), high blood pressure, and high cholesterol. Medications included Avapro (150mg daily), Tricor (145mg daily), and Aspirin (81mg daily).

V2, the white Toyota Corolla, was driven by a 29-year old female, who refused treatment. She stated that she had just dropped off her friend at the clinic for her pregnancy examination, and she decided to head toward her daughter's school to pick her up. According to the driver, the school was not far from the clinic, and there was plenty of time to get to her destination. She explained that she always travels in the slow lanes, and takes precautions, due to the fact that she does not have a driver's license. The driver recognized the fact that she was eventually going to have to merge left. She saw the work vehicle with orange cones around it in the distance. She looked to her left, and did not see any cars near her. All the sudden, the motorist felt another vehicle bump her on the left side. Her immediate reaction was to slow down. She then saw the other car accelerate to her left, before striking her a second time. The second impact hit her with such strength that it forced her off the road, onto the sidewalk.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane, over left lane line". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. One associated factor for this driver was inexperience. Although the motorist had been driving for four years, she had never taken any form of driver education, and did not have a driver's license. No additional associated factors were present for this driver.