This three-vehicle crash occurred in a rural area on a 4-lane physically divided asphalt roadway with various curves and elevations. The north and southbound lanes are divided by a concrete barrier wall. The northbound lanes are straight and downhill. The speed limit is 89 kmph (55 mph). There was no adverse weather at the time of the crash. Prior to this crash there had been a previous crash with a travel trailer blocking the #2 northbound lanes. To the north of the travel trailer was the vehicle that had been towing the trailer. It became unhitched and was facing south in the #2 northbound lane behind the trailer. Police were on-scene providing traffic controls for the previous crash. Traffic in both northbound lanes had slowed due to the previous crash.

Vehicle one (V1) a 1996 Chevrolet C-1500 pickup towing a trailer loaded with two 4-wheelers (ATV's) and an ice chest and equipped with electric brakes. V1 was traveling northbound in the #2 lane traveling at 104 kmph (65 mph). There was an unoccupied police vehicle, vehicle two (V2), in this travel lane with lights activated closing the lane to through traffic and providing traffic control for the previous collision. According to witnesses, when V1 could not slow down fast enough to avoid the backed-up traffic, the driver of V1 steered right and contacted the right rear tire of V2, a 2005 Pontiac Grand Prix sedan. V2 was unoccupied and stopped in the #2 lane with red and blue lights flashing as well as strobe warning lights. After the impact with the rear of V2, the driver of V1 then tried to travel between vehicles and contacted the left side of Vehicle three (V3), a 1999 Chevrolet K-1500 pickup towing a 5th wheel camper equipped with electric brakes. The front-end of V1 contacted the overturned trailer from the previous crash, which pushed it into 3 pedestrians who were standing in the area. This impact killed two of the pedestrians and seriously injured the third. V1 then continued forward and came to rest on the right shoulder of the northbound lanes. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. V3 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a thirty six (36) year-old female who was traveling with 2 passengers. She refused to be interviewed and refused inspection of her vehicle. She stated to police she could not slow down her vehicle in time to avoid the crash. Two witnesses, who were originally occupants of V2, stated V1 was traveling very fast and could not stop in time to avoid the collisions.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: too fast for conditions (specified as: driver could not respond in time to avoid vehicles in traffic lane stopped due to a previous collision).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.