The single vehicle, midweek, midday crash occurred off the right side of a straight, north-south, rural, 2 lanes wide, 2 way, gravel/slag roadway with a downhill grade >2%. At the time of the crash it was daylight, cloudy and the roadway was dry. The roadway has a non-posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55mph).

V1, a 1999 Chevrolet Cavalier 2 door solely occupied by a 19-year-old driver, was southbound on the right side of the roadway described above. V1 started to yaw clockwise. The driver steered left then right and the vehicle went into a clockwise yaw again. While in a clockwise yaw, v1 exited the roadway to the right. V1, front, struck a sign post and a tree. V1 then rotated counterclockwise and struck three more trees with its right side. V1 then rotated to the right and nosed down an embankment striking a metal culvert with its front. V1 came to rest facing west nosed down the embankment just off the west side of the road. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver stated that she had just left home and was on her way to work. She stated that she was late for work, traveling at about 60mph when the she started to loose control. She steered to the right and braked but could not prevent v1 from leaving the roadway to the right. She further stated that she had been drinking the night before and had not gotten to bed until 4 o'clock that morning and was still fatigued when leaving for work.

The Critical Pre-crash event was "this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side". The Critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was the Driver Related Factor of driving too fast for conditions (on a gravel/slag roadway with a speed limit less than she reported as traveling). Some contributing factors include the driver's fatigue from lack of sleep, sleeping at a friend's house the night before and her underage drinking resulting in a .004 reading on a PBT at the scene of the crash. This was coupled with the driver being in a hurry, having "concerns (in general) about her life" and a poor driving record including 9 "points" for previous moving traffic violations and 1 DUIL. Finally, the condition of the roadway was a factor. It contained potholes and ruts making it difficult to negotiate.