The crash occurred off the side of an undivided north/south two-lane roadway. This was a straight, level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). It was early afternoon on a weekend day. The roadway was dry and the weather was clear.

V1, a Lincoln Town Car 4-door sedan with the driver as the sole occupant, was traveling southbound. V1 drifted over the right edge of the traffic lane, then off the right side of the roadway and struck a telephone pole. The vehicle came to final rest at the telephone pole. Damage to the telephone pole was minimal; V1 was towed due to severe damage to the front. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1.

The Lincoln Town Car was driven by an 82 year-old female who was transported to a medical facility for treatment. The driver was interviewed several weeks after the crash after several attempts to reach her. She seemed suspicious when asked about personal information, not as much regarding her vehicle. The driver stated she does remember the events leading up to the crash. The driver stated at first she did not know where she was coming from or where she was going. She later stated she was coming from home. The crash occurred approximately one mile from her residence and the vehicle was heading towards her residence. The driver also stated she was not taking any medication and had no preexisting health conditions. It should be noted the police report stated there was prescription medication bottles found in the driver's purse. The driver stated, and was supported by the police report with witness information, that she blacked out while driving. Witnesses also reported that she was driving erratically prior to the crash. The investigating officer wrote on the police report that he would recommend for a special medical driver examination.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was "This vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act." Associated factors coded to the driver include use of prescription medication for hypertension and anxiety. The driver was also diagnosed as having mild dementia. The driver reported being unfamiliar with the roadway and stated that she had only driven the vehicle 6-10 times in the last 3 months.