The two-vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane, undivided, north/south roadway at the intersection with a two-lane, undivided, east/west roadway. Both roadways were straight, level, wet and of asphalt construction. Stop signs for north and southbound lanes control traffic at the intersection. The posted speed limit is 48 kph (30 mph). Traffic was light at the time of the crash. This crash occurred during daylight hours with cloudy skies. It had been raining earlier and the road surface was wet.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Nissan Altima with one occupant, was southbound in the first travel lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Chevrolet Tahoe with one occupant, was eastbound in the first travel lane. Both vehicles entered the intersection and the front of V2 struck the right side of V1. Both vehicles rotated and the right side of V1 struck the left side of V2. V1 rotated clockwise, the front left wheel of V1 struck the curb on the southeast side of the intersection. The vehicle continued onto the grass roadside where the left side struck a wooden utility pole and a sign support before the left side of V2 struck the right side of V1. V1 came to rest facing southwest partially on the roadway. V2 came to rest in the intersection facing southwest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-year old male, could not be located for an interview.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment-from crossing street, across path . The critical reason for V1 was not coded to this vehicle. Contributing factor includes illegal maneuver since this vehicle ran the stop sign before entering the intersection. This driver also failed to notice V2 prior to entering the intersection.

The driver of V2, a twenty-five year old male, was heading home from a friend's house. This driver had been driving for about two minutes, was driving the route for the first time and is familiar with the vehicle. He did not detect V1 until V2 had entered the intersection.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling-crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for V2 was coded: inadequate surveillance (failed to look, looked but did not see).