This two-vehicle crash happened on a weekday during late afternoon hours. The location was the six-lane northbound roadway of a divided straight asphalt expressway. This roadway has a downhill grade with five through lanes and a right exit lane. The posted speed limit is 97 kmph (60 mph). The weather was clear and the roads dry.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Chevrolet Tahoe, was traveling north in the second lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Kia Optima, was traveling in lane three. V1 attempted to change into lane three. The left side of V1was struck by the right front side of V2. The left side of V1 then struck the right rear quarter panel of V2. V1 drove to final rest on the right shoulder. V2 traveled off the road onto the right shoulder where it came to final rest. V2 was towed due to damage. V1 was driven from the scene after the driver changed the damaged left front tire. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 23-year old male drove V1. He was heading to his parents' residence for a weekend visit. At the time of the crash he was driving for about three hours. He does not take any medication and was well rested. He claimed the traffic in front of him came to a sudden stop and he decided to change into the next lane. He said he looked into his rearview mirrors but did not see V2. He did not turn his head to check lane three prior to moving to the left.

The critical pre crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related error: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

A 23-year old male drove V2. He was heading to his part time job from his home. He was not in hurry and drives on this roadway on a daily basis. He is a full time student who was well rested and in good health. He stated he saw V1 attempting to change into lane three but did not attempt any avoidance maneuvers.

The critical pre crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle encroachment-from adjacent lane (same direction) - over right lane line. No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle.