This two-vehicle crash occurred on an urban roadway with no controls. East of the crash site, this roadway curves right and is uphill in the westbound direction. The curve begins at approximately 34 meters (111.5 feet)east of the crash site, and farther east than this, the roadway is straight. West of the crash site, the roadway curves left and is downhill in the eastbound direction. This roadway is undivided with two lanes of travel, one in each direction, and has a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). This crash occurred in the mid afternoon hours on a weekday with light traffic flow. The roadway was covered with snow and ice and it was snowing.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Ford Escape with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane one, approaching the right curve. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Chevrolet Silverado with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane one, negotiating the left curve. V1 entered the curve and began to lose control on the icy roadway. The driver of V1 applied the brakes and steered right to try to correct the control loss, but V1 continued to go straight after entering the curve. The driver of V2 saw V1 losing control as it entered the curve and steered right to get as far over as possible. The driver of V2 then saw that V1 was all the way in the eastbound lane and steered back to the left to avoid a head-on collision. The front of V2 struck the right side of V1. It is unclear how either vehicle came to final rest since both vehicles were moved prior to the researcher's arrival on-scene. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Neither driver was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a sixteen-year-old male, was driving from school to a friend's house. He was well rested, very comfortable with his vehicle, and drives this roadway several times a month. He is in good health and takes no medications.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as an environment related factor: slick roads (low friction road surface due to ice, loose debris, any other cause). Inexperienced driver, and slick surface (low friction value due to icy condition) were coded as associative factors for V1.

The driver of V2, a forty-one-year-old female, was traveling from a nearby park to her home. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route weekly. She is in good health and takes Synthroid on a regular basis.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle. Slick surface was coded as an associative factor for V2.