This crash occurred at an intersection with five lanes of travel. Two north and two south with a left turn lane. The intersection was controlled by an electronic traffic signal. This signal was located in this area of the roadway due to an automotive parts factory. The roadway was dry, level asphalt. The speed was posted at 72 kmph (45 mph). The weather was cold and cloudy. It was daylight and mid afternoon.

Vehicle 1 a 1999 Dodge Durango was traveling south in lane one, then changing lanes to lane two, back to lane one partially and just before he hit a witnesses car he changes back to lane two. Then, vehicle one while in lane two contacts the rear of vehicle 2 a 2006 Chevrolet Impala. Vehicle 2 then contacted the rear of vehicle 3 a 2005 Saturn MPV. As all three vehicles came to final rest in lane two the vehicle 2 driver and occupant obtained minor injuries and were treated on scene. The driver and occupants of vehicle 3 were not injured. The driver of vehicle 1 was not injured. Vehicle 1 and vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 39 year-old male that stated he is in good health but is being treated for depression and is taking medication for his condition drove vehicle 1. He also stated he had not taken his medication in 48 hours. This driver stated he was fatigued he only got 4.5 hours of sleep the night before and has had family and employment problems. He stated he is self-employed installing lawn-watering systems. He stated he was on his way to an appointment to meet with someone for a job. He said as he drove south in lane two he noted the light had changed to red and was decelerating. He came up on vehicle 2, he applied the brakes but was wearing large boots and his foot did not stay on the brake and he could not get his foot back on the brake in time to stop.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded “other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded driver related error “internal distraction”. The associated factor was the driver's speed and that he was found to have a passenger in the vehicle that left the scene as the vehicle came to final rest per witnesses.

A 66 year-old male drove vehicle 2 he stated he is in good health but is taking medication for high blood pressers at this time. He does not wear corrective lenses at this time. He stated he and his wife wear stopped in lane two at the traffic light talking about what they could do to burn up some time until they had to be at the airport to take a airplane home. The driver stated he was looking in his rear view mirror because his wife was laying down in the back seat resting. They had driven from there home some 125 miles away to give there grandchild her coat she had left in there rental car over the weekend when they were here for a family wedding. He also stated it was less to fly from this area then it was from near there home. He stated as he looked in the mirror he saw vehicle 1 coming and told his wife that they were going to be hit from the rear. He stated after they came to final rest he got out to check on his wife because she was not buckled in the back seat. He stated he and his wife were checked out on scene because they were going to fly out of town to there home down south and did not want to miss their plane.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded “other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed”. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors to this vehicle were the fact that the passenger was not belted in and was laying in the back seat.

A 71 year-old male that states he is in good health but is being treated for high blood pressure and diabetes. He also stated he does wear corrective lenses for hyperopic and myopic (both far and near sightedness). He stated he, his wife and granddaughter where on their way to an appointment and had stopped in lane two for the red light. He stated they heard the skidding tires and his granddaughter turned to see V1 hitting V2 and as V1 and V2 slid into his vehicle his granddaughter covered her face thinking the back light was going to brake into the rear of the vehicle. He stated his vehicle was not contacted all that hard to cause bad damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V3 was coded other not involved in first harmful event. There was no critical reason coded to this vehicle.

After interviewing all three witnesses they all stated V1 was traveling at high speed and that the passenger ran from the scene after final rest. Witness 1 and 2 booth stated the driver of V1 changed lanes several times before almost hitting witness 2 before impact. Witness 1 stated he never saw brake lights but witness 2 and 3 stated they saw brake lights with in the last 10ft before impact.