This three-vehicle crash occurred on an urban roadway, one block before a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection with railroad crossing. South of the crash site, the roadway is divided by a concrete barrier and the northbound traffic lanes consist of three through lanes. This roadway is straight, uphill in the northbound direction, and has a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred in the mid-afternoon hours on a weekday with heavy traffic flow. There was construction on the east roadside; it did not have any bearing on the traffic flow.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Subaru Legacy with two occupants, was traveling northbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Subaru Impreza with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane one, in front of V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 2006 Ford F-150 with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane one, in front of V2. Traffic in front of V3 came to a stop due to congestion and V3 stopped quickly. V2 stopped behind V3. V1 failed to stop and the front of V1 impacted the back of V2. V2 was pushed forward and the front of V2 contacted the back of V3. All three vehicles came to final rest near the points of impact, facing north in lane one. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a fifty-seven-year-old female, was driving from picking her granddaughter up at school and going to a store. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route weekly. She is in good health and takes medications regularly for high blood pressure and high cholesterol. She was unwilling to provide the names of these medications. She stated she might have looked away, but only for a second, and then all of a sudden, traffic was stopped in front of her. The driver of V2 said that they looked in their rearview mirror to see if the driver behind them (V1) was going to stop, and said that the driver of V1 was looking to the right so they braced for impact. It is surmised that since the driver of V1 also commented about the on-going road construction off the right roadside, that this was what she had glanced at. The driver indicated there was no conversation or interior distractions for her. She made a false assumption that the forward traffic was going to proceed.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: external distraction, for looking to the right prior to impact. Inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see) and traffic congestion were considered associative factors.

The driver of V2, a twenty-three-year-old male, was commuting from work to his home. He was well rested, very comfortable with his vehicle, and drives this route daily. He is in good health and takes no medications. He had some concerns with his school finals, but was not thinking about them at the time of the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle. Traffic congestion was coded as an associative factor.

The driver of V3, a twenty-eight-year-old male, was driving from his home to his girlfriend's house. He was well rested, very comfortable with his vehicle, and drives this route weekly. He is in good health and takes no medications.

V3 was not involved first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle. Traffic congestion was coded as an associative factor.