This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged intersection in an interchange area. The southbound roadway is one-way, straight, level and consists of three lanes. The speed limit for this roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). The east/west roadway is straight, consists of one lane in each direction and is controlled by stop signs and a red flashing signal at the intersection. The eastbound travel lane has a downhill grade. The speed limit for this roadway is 40 kmph (25 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Kia Sportage, was southbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 1991 Ford Explorer, was eastbound, stopped at the stop sign. V2 entered the intersection and the left side was struck by the front of V1. The vehicles rotated and the right side of V1 struck the left side of V2. V2 traveled off the road in the southeast corner of the intersection and the front struck a guardrail and a tree. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a seventeen-year-old male, was traveling with his fifty-year-old mother. This driver had dropped off his sister and was on his way to drop off his mother and then go to school. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver had seven months of driving experience. He had broken his glasses the week before and had not replaced them. This driver stated that he saw V2 as it entered the intersection and applied the brakes (skidding longitudinally) in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The driver of V2, a seventeen -year-old male, was on his way to school from his home. This driver stated that he did not see V1 prior to the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's inexperience and visual impairment were associated factors in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)." This driver's inexperience was an associated factor in this crash.