The crash occurred in the intersection on a five-lane, two-way roadway. There were two eastbound lanes and two westbound lanes divided by a left-turn lane. The east leg curved right with a radius of 188m the west leg was straight. This was a bituminous roadway with a level grade and a posted speed of 64 kmph (40 mph). It was early afternoon on a weekend, traffic was flowing and the road was dry.

V1, a 1998 Buick Century four-door with one occupant was traveling eastbound in the left-turn lane approaching the intersection intending to turn left. V2, a 2002 Chevrolet Suburban SUV with five occupants was traveling westbound in lane two approaching the intersection intending to go straight. V1 had a flashing red light and initiated the turn. The front of V1 contacted the left of V2. V1 came to final rest in the intersection. V2 then departed the roadway on the right side and contacted his right to a mailbox and then rolled right one-quarter turn. V2 came to final rest in the roadway on its right side. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was an 88-year old female who reported injuries and was transported to a local trauma facility. She stated that she had just left a store and was on her way home. She stated that she had decelerated to between 2-16 kmph (1-10 mph) when she attempted the left-turn. She stated that she thought she had the right-of-way and saw V2 coming but thought that they would stop. She attempted braking but could not avoid V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was: “this vehicle traveling: tuning left at intersection”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a driver related error: “false assumption of other's actions” because she thought V2 was going to stop. Some associated factors for the driver of V1 was that she failed to stop for the blinking red light.

The driver of V2 was a 46-year old male who reported injuries and was transported to a local trauma facility. He stated that he and his family had just left the restaurant and were on their way to a hardware store. He stated that he was traveling between 66-80 kmph (41-50 mph) when V1 made her turn. He stated that V1 approached the light and hesitated so he thought she was going to yield the right-of-way. He attempted braking but could not avoid contacting V1.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was: “other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction over left lane line”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor for the driver of V2 was a false assumption that V1 would yield the right-of-way.