The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a two-way, ten-lane interstate roadway, which was physically divided by a concrete barrier. There were five southbound lanes, with a posted speed of 105 kmph (65 mph). This was a straight, level, asphalt roadway. Conditions were dark with streetlights on a weekday evening. The roads were dry, with clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, an unknown light passenger car (possibly a Mitsubishi) with an unknown number of occupants, was traveling southbound in an unknown lane. V2, a 2001 Lexus IS-300 with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane five (HOV lane). A witness to the crash was traveling adjacent to V2 in lane four, staggered slightly ahead of V2. The driver of V1 lost control, and the vehicle began to rotate in a counterclockwise direction as it traveled across the southbound lanes toward V2. As the vehicle encroached into V2's travel lane, the front of V2 made contact with the right side of V1. After impact, V1's driver regained control, driving away from the crash scene. V2 traveled off the left side of the roadway, striking the concrete barrier with its front. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.

V1, the unknown passenger vehicle, was driven by an unknown person with unknown injuries. Due to the vehicle's hit and run status, an interview could not be obtained. A witness to the crash stated that she was driving in the lane to the right of V2, when another vehicle spun out of control toward her. The witness said that she applied the brakes, staying within her lane. According to the witness, V1's headlights were in her face as V1 crossed from right to left in front of her. As she slowed, V2 began to pass her on the left. She saw V2 swerve to the left in an attempt to avoid V1. She also witnessed V2 striking the wall. She assumed that there was some contact between V1 and V2, but could not say with any certainty whether or not the two vehicles touched.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle control loss due to unknown cause of control loss". The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was “unknown”. The immediate reason for the occurrence of the Critical Precrash Event could not be determined. No associated factors could be determined for the driver of V1 due to lack of interview data.

V2, the Lexus IS-300, was driven by a 25-year old male, who was transported to the hospital due to injury. He stated that he was on his way home from work, when the other vehicle lost control and spun out into his travel lane. The driver tried to take an evasive action by steering sharply to the left and applying his brakes. According to the motorist, the front of his car made contact with the right side of V1, before careening into the concrete barrier.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane (same direction) over left lane line". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this motorist. One associated factor for the driver was experience-related. The driver was in a borrowed vehicle, and it was his first time driving that particular car. No additional associated factors were coded to the driver of the Lexus.