This two-vehicle crash occurred on a straight, level, undivided roadway that consists of one lane in each direction with gravel shoulders on both sides. The speed limit on this roadway is 80 kmph (50 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Chevrolet C1500 pickup, was eastbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Buick Regal, was westbound in lane one. V2 traveled off the right side of the roadway and then back on the roadway in an attempt to make a u-turn. V2 traveled into the westbound lane and the right side was struck by the front of V1. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-eight-year-old male, was on his way from his home to take his seventeen-year-old daughter to school. He was healthy, well rested and comfortable with his vehicle and passenger. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that when he realized that V2 was making a u-turn, he steered right and applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The driver of V2, a thirty-two-year-old male, was taking his seventeen-year-old brother to school. This driver was well rested, healthy and familiar with his vehicle and the roadway. After he and his brother left home, this driver drove into the back of a farm tractor irrigation attachment. This crash crumpled the hood, almost completely obscuring the driver's view. This driver left that crash and continued on to school. He stated that he was panicking because he had crashed his father's car and his brother was trying to calm him down. When he realized that he should return to the site of the original crash, he attempted to make a u-turn. This driver stated that he never saw V1 prior to the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V2 as a vehicle related factor; vision obstructions. This driver's decision to continue driving with the visual obstruction of the crumpled hood and his emotionally upset state were associated factors in this crash.