The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. The east/west roadway was two-way with one lane in each direction. The northern roadway was one-way with one lane of travel, controled by a stop sign. This was a straight, level, bituminous roadway with a speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). It was the evening hours of a weekday, and it was dark, but light, and clear with no adverse conditions. The traffic signals were recently installed and were not functioning at the time of the crash.

V1, a 2006 Honda Accord four door with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane one. V2, a 2007 Ford E-Series van with one occupant was traveling westbound in lane one. At the intersection, the front of V2 impacted the right side of V1. Both vehicles came to a final rest on the northwest corner of the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Honda Accord, was driven by a 68 year-old female who reported no injuries. The driver advised that she was coming from her children's home, and going home. She came to a stop at the stop sign and attempted to roll through the intersection.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical event was a Driver related factor, "inadequate surveillance". The driver did not have the right of way, and a Recognition factor coded to the driver was an inadequate surveillance, looked but did not see. Another factor was that she crossed with an obstructed view. The Highway related factors were a traffic flow interruption factor in the form of congested traffic, and a sightline restriction caused by a vehicle.

V2, the Ford E-Series van, was driven by a 43 year-old male who reported no injuries. The driver advised that he was coming from home and going to park the van in a parking lot. He stated that he was in bumper-to-bumper traffic, and V1 attempted to go through the intersection, he attempted to steer right and brake but was unable to avoid V1.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path". The Critical Reason for the Critical event was not coded to this vehicle. The Highway related factors were a traffic flow interruption factor in the form of congested traffic and a sightline restriction caused by a vehicle. No other Associated factors were coded to the driver.