This crash occurred in a four-way intersection controlled by stop signs on the north and southbound approaches. The east/west roadway had no traffic control devices. Both roadways were 2-lane undivided roadways with one lane in each direction. Both roadways were straight, level, and bituminous. The east/west roadway had a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph) and the north/south roadway had a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred in the mid-afternoon on a weekday and the roads were dry and the skies were clear. Rush hour congestion had just started so the traffic flow was heavy with stop-and-go activity.

V1, a 1995 Jeep Grand Cherokee sport utility vehicle, was traveling north through the intersection intending on continuing straight through the intersection. V2, a 1997 International school bus was traveling east through the intersection intending on continuing straight. As V1 approached the intersection, its driver did not stop for the stop sign and entered the intersection. As V1 was entering the intersection, V2 was approaching the intersection at a constant speed. When the driver of V2 saw V1 entering the intersection, he braked and swerved to the left, but was unable to avoid the collision. The front of V2 struck the left side of V1 and pushed V1 approximately 12 meters northeast. The force of this collision forced V1 to rotate clockwise and roll over once on the left side. V1 came to final rest on its left side facing southwest on the northeast corner roadside approximately 15 meters northeast from point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Jeep Grand Cherokee, was driven by an 18-year-old male who reported "C" injuries and was transported to a medical facility from the scene. The three other passengers in the vehicle also reported "C" injuries and were transported to a medical facility. One of the passengers was a 2-year-old male in a child restraint. According to the police report, the driver was leaving a nearby high school and was heading north through the intersection. As he approached the intersection, the driver stated that he stopped for the stop sign and then proceeded into the intersection. It wasn't until he was in the intersection that he saw V2 approaching from his left. In the intersection, V1 was struck on the left side, spun clockwise, and then rolled over. A witness to the crash reported that although V1 approached the intersection at a very slow rate of speed, it did not stop for the stop sign.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded as "This vehicle traveling-crossing over (passing through) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was coded as Inadequate surveillance, because it was believed that the driver of V1 did not look to his left until he was into the intersection. An associated factor coded to V1 was an illegal maneuver because the driver failed to stop for a traffic control device (stop sign). The driver of V1 could not be located for an interview. No other associated factors could be coded due to the lack of interview.

V2, the International school bus, was driven by a 53-year-old male who reported no injuries. According to the police report, the driver stated he was traveling east. As he approached the intersection, he saw that V1 had entered the intersection in front of him. To try to avoid a collision, he slammed on the brakes and swerved to the left. However, he was unsuccessful in avoiding the collision and the front of V2 struck the left side of V1. V2 pushed V1 for approximately 12 meters northeast of point of impact, where V2 came to final rest.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded as "Other vehicle encroachment-from crossing street, across path." No Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. This driver could not be located for an interview. Without an interview, no associated factors could be coded to this driver.