This two-vehicle crash occurred a few hours after noon on a Sunday. The location was in the westbound lanes of a suburban street. This roadway was a bituminous five-lane undivided roadway, with two-lanes in each direction and a center turn lane. The weather was clear and dry, and visibility was clear. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Chevy K2500 pickup with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane two, then switched lanes into the center left turn lane. V1 stopped while preparing to turn left into a driveway when traffic was clear. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Toyota Camry with three occupants, was traveling westbound in lane one. After V1 remained stopped for more than 10 seconds a non-contact vehicle that was stopped in the number 2 westbound traffic lane, left an opening and waved V1 through. When the driver of V1 pulled out to cross over into the driveway, at the last second he saw V2; and he attempted to hit the brakes. The front right of V1 impacted the front left of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 19 year-old male who reported he was not injured. The driver stated another vehicle waved him through and that he believes V2 was behind the non-contact vehicle and switched over at the last second into lane one. The driver reported that the tires, brakes and suspension were all in good condition. There was no indication of any vehicle related factors for V1 by the investigating officer or from the vehicle inspection. He was traveling from an earlier soccer game and he was headed to pick his girlfriend up from work. He was not in a hurry. He is reportedly in good health with no hearing or sight restrictions. He was well rested, with 9 hours of sleep. This is a route that he drives daily. He is also very comfortable with the condition of his vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection. The critical reason was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: turned with an obstructed view.

The driver of V2 is a 35 year-old male who reported he bumped his head during the collision. He stated that the other vehicle darted out in front of him and his children. The driver reported that the tires, brakes and suspension were all in good condition. There was no indication of any vehicle related factors for V2 by the investigating officer or from the vehicle inspection. This driver was traveling with his two children to his aunt's house for a Sunday dinner. He is reportedly in good health with no hearing or sight restrictions. He was well rested with 10 hours of sleep. This is a route he drives daily. He is also very comfortable with the condition of his vehicle, and traveling with his children.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over the left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.