This two vehicle nighttime collision occurred on a five lane, dry, level asphalt roadway with a two-way left turn lane. The roadway runs east/west and is designated 56 kmph (35 mph). The collision occurred just after an intersection. The intersection is controlled by a on-color signal that was working properly at the time.

Vehicle one (V1) is a 1989 Ford F-250 pick up truck driven by a thirty nine (39) year old male, who was traveling east in the number one lane. Vehicle two (V2) is a 2006 Mercedes E-350 four-door sedan, driven by a forty six (46) year old male with two passengers. V2 was traveling east but was stopped in the number one lane. V2 stopped after the intersection because of a backup in traffic from the next intersection. The front of V1 impacted the rear of V2. Both vehicles came to rest facing east in the number one lane. V1 was towed with moderate damage. V2 was towed with major damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed. The driver of V1 was commuting home after dropping off co-workers. He reported no distraction, was aware of V2's presence and looking straight ahead prior to the crash. The driver of V1 misjudged the velocity and distance to the forward vehicle and unable to stop in time to avoid an impact. He stated he was following V1 at a distance of just one car length, about 6 meters (20 feet), which was not enough distance for him to be able to stop in time after V2 had stopped. Inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see), for failing to look far enough ahead to realize forward traffic was stopping, was coded as an associative factor. The driver rarely drives this route and is uncomfortable driving on it at night.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

An associated factor for both vehicles was the congested forward traffic at this time.