The crash occurred at the intersection of a two-way, two-lane, straight road where it intersects with a two-way, two-lane driveway to a gas station. The posted speed limit on the bituminous road was 72 kmh (45 mph). Conditions at the time of the weekday afternoon crash were daylight, cloudy, light snow and the pavement was wet.

V1, a 1996 Lincoln Towncar 4 door sedan driven by a 19 year-old male, was southbound on the road on a >2% downhill slope at 40-45 mph. The driver was on his way from a store to his friend's home and noticed that he needed gas. The driver stated that he slowed down to 5 mph and looked left into the gas station driveway. V1 began his turn and at the last second he saw V2 northbound on the road. The front of V1 struck the front of V2 in the northbound lane. The driver of V1 attempted to turn more sharply to avoid the crash. V1 was pushed sideways and came to rest partially in the driveway facing east. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver and 18 year-old male front right passenger, denied injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 2002 Ford Taurus SEL 4 door sedan driven by a 53 year-old female on her commute home from work, was northbound on the road on a >2% uphill slope. The driver of V2 saw V1 suddenly turn left in front of her. Due to other vehicles in the southbound lane the driver stated that she could not swerve left to avoid the crash. The driver stated that she swerved right into the driveway area and braked. V2 rotated clockwise and came to rest facing east partially in the driveway. V2 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver denied injuries.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to the driver of V1 was this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded was a driver related factor-recognition error-inadequate surveillance. This driver stated that he looked left and never saw the other driver coming from the opposite direction. A Contributing Factor of 'driver related factor-recognition error of external distraction-looking at intended turn destination' was coded. An Associated Factor coded to this vehicle was the low tread on the tires.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to the driver of V2 was 'other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line.' The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle.