This crash occurred in a 4-way intersection. The north/south roadway was a 2-lane undivided roadway with one lane in each direction and controlled by stop signs. The northbound roadway was under construction. The east/west roadway was a 4-way undivided roadway with two lanes in each direction. This was a straight, level, and bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred in the early afternoon of a weekend, the roads were dry and skies were clear. Traffic flow was congested with stop and go traffic activity.

V1, a 2004 Chevrolet Malibu 4-door sedan, was traveling west in lane 2 intending on making a left at the intersection. V1, a 2007 Nissan Sentra 4-door sedan, was traveling east in lane one intending on continuing straight through the intersection. V1 was stopped in lane two waiting to make a left turn, when a non-contact vehicle waved for V1 to go. As V1 proceeded through the turn, V2 was continuing straight through the intersection. Neither vehicle was able to avoid the collision and the two vehicles collided front to front with each other. The force of the impact sent V2 into a nearby telephone pole at the southeast corner of the intersection approximately 10 meters from the point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the 2004 Chevy Malibu, was driven by a 63-year-old female who reported no injuries. According to the police report, when the driver was waiting to make a left turn, a non-contact vehicle waved the driver on. When V1 was executing the turn, she struck V2. This driver could not be located for an interview.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded as "This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as "Turned with an obstructed view." Without a driver interview, the only other associated factors that be coded were the road congestion and the sightline restriction caused by the non-contact vehicles.

V2, the 2007 Nissan Sentra, was driven by a 52-year-old male who reported no injuries. When police ran checks on his license, they realized that his license has been suspended and he was placed under arrest. The driver stated that he was continuing down the road hoping to beat the beach traffic when all of a sudden V1 made a left turn in front of him. He did not have time to react or avoid the collision and struck V1 and then struck a nearby pole.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded as "Other vehicle encroachment-from opposite direction, over left lane line." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this driver. Associated factors that were coded to this driver include conversation with the passenger, the fact that he rarely drives on the roadway, he was in a hurry (attempting to beat traffic), road congestion, and the sightline restriction caused by the non-contact vehicles.