This two-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of a four-way intersection. There was one each southbound/northbound non-physically divided lanes and one each eastbound/ westbound non-physically divided lanes; double yellow lines divided the south/northbound and the east/westbound lanes. Curbside parking was permitted on each side of all travel directions. However, they were sometimes used for travel lanes. Signalized traffic control devices controlled the movement through the intersection. The bituminous covered roadways were dry and straight, and there were no adverse weather conditions. There was a 5% uphill vertical grade for both V1, northbound and V2, westbound travel directions. The posted speed limit for all directions of travel was 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during the early-afternoon daylight hours. There were noticeable defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.

Vehicle one, a 2006 Ford E-Series Bus Type Van, was traveling northbound on the two-way roadway when it contacted with its front the left side of vehicle two, a 1988 Volvo 240 Series 4-door sedan, traveling westbound through the same intersection. After the initial impact, V1 traveled a few feet rotating slightly counter-clockwise where it came to final rest continuing to face northward. Vehicle two, after the impact, traveled several feet and rotated 180 degrees counter-clockwise where it came to final rest facing the opposite direction of travel, eastward. Vehicle one's damages were minor resulting in a non-tow status while vehicle two's damages were disabling and it was towed from the scene. However, the PAR lists the vehicle status as non-tow. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a 21-year old male, said he was traveling northbound at about 56 kmph (35 mph) while approaching the intersection he saw that his light was green so he continued traveling. However, as he got closer, he saw two vehicles traveling westbound through the intersection on the yellow light. The first vehicle was okay, but the second vehicle was right in front of him so he steered right trying to avoid striking it but it was too late. His vehicle struck the other vehicle on the left side. He's been a driver for the bus company for six-months and has gone through a lot of training and knew better then to drive through an intersection on the red or yellow light. Besides, he said, he was running on schedule. He'd just dropped off one of his passengers on this daily route and was on his way to drop off another passenger. He has six-months experience driving this type of vehicle, finishing professional driving school a little over six-months ago. He's been a license driver for four-years. He admits to being only comfortable with the vehicle and frequently converses with his passengers while driving. He relies on the company to maintain the vehicle. He was not injured. However, his female passenger was transported to the hospital with complaints of pain.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 is: "other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle include: an inexperience driver, driver has only six-months driving experience with this 'bus' type vehicle and a licensed driver for only 4-years, driver was conversing with his passengers, a possible distraction.

The driver of V2, a 66-year old female, said she was traveling westbound travel speed about 48 kmph (30 mph) following and trusting the vehicle in front of her and as she was approaching the intersection, She saw the light turning yellow and thought she could get through to the other side before the crossing traffic crossed her path, Well, no luck, she said. She was concerned with insurance problems, 'I know it was my fault, I'm in trouble,' she questioned. At this point I again explained the confidentiality of the program, and she relaxed. She continued explaining how she was talking on her cell phone and asked: are a lot of crashes due to cell phone use? She's been driving for several years, she said, and only had a couple of crashes. She's familiar with this roadway: she travels on it weekly. She was transported to the hospital directly from the scene with non-life threatening injuries.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 is: "this vehicle crossing over (passing through) the intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event is: "an illegal maneuver, a decision error". Associated factors coded to the driver include: failed to stop at TCD, slept 7 hours in the past 24-hours her normal is 8-hours in 24-hour, possible fatigue, talking on cell phone and listening to the radio, possible distraction.