The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a four-lane undivided roadway. There were two northbound and two southbound lanes. This was a straight, level bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 56 KMPH (35 MPH). It was early afternoon on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was congested, with stop-and-go activity.

V1, a 2000 Buick LeSabre four door with two occupants, was traveling southbound in lane two. V2, a 2004 Saturn Ion four door with one occupant, was stopped in traffic in southbound lane one. V1 crossed the dotted white line on the right side and contacted V2's left rear with its right front. V1 came to rest in lane two just south of the point of impact. V2 came to rest in lane one but was pulled into lane two with its left rear tire locked in place. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

V1, the Buick LeSabre, was driven by an 81-year old male who had blacked out in traffic. The driver was treated on scene and refused transport. He advised he didn't remember very much of the accident. As he was proceeding south he lost consciousness and awoke in the ambulance.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the right side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was driver related, "heart attack or other impairment of the ability to act." The driver of V1 related he had blacked out three years prior and sought treatment. The driver was given Trileptal, an anti-seizure medication, and after three months of no additional blackouts was cleared to resume driving. The driver did not recall any other blackouts since then. The driver was also taking a blood thinner after an atrial fibrillation. Traffic congestion was also coded as an associated factor.

V2, the Saturn Ion, was driven by a 26-year old female who reported no injuries. She advised she was returning home from an orthodontist appointment and was stopped in lane one for a traffic light when her vehicle was struck by V1 in the left rear.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane same direction - over left lane line. No Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. Traffic congestion was coded as an associated factor.