The crash occurred near the interchange area of a two-way, twelve-lane interstate roadway, which was divided by a concrete barrier. There were six northbound lanes, with a posted speed of 105 kmph (65 mph). This was a straight, level, asphalt roadway. Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon, with wet roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 2007 Audi Q7 sport utility vehicle with three occupants, was traveling northbound in lane three. V2, a 2005 Toyota Scion Xb with two occupants, was traveling northbound in lane two, staggered slightly behind V1. V1 changed lanes from lane three to lane two. The front of V2 made contact with the back of V1. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.

The Audi Q7 was driven by a 31-year old male, who was not injured. The driver did not wish to be interviewed, but stated that he had changed lanes, and was hit after he had completed the lane change. He insisted that he did not cut off the driver of V2. It is believed that the driver may have made a sudden lane change in order to make the approaching exit, but this could not be confirmed.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. No additional associated factors could be determined for this driver due to lack of interview data.

The Scion Xb was driven by a 46-year old female, who was transported to the hospital due to injury. She stated that she and her passenger were on their way to her mother's house, when the other driver suddenly and unexpectedly cut over into her travel lane. The motorist tried to avoid the other vehicle by braking and steering to the right, but the other driver did not leave her with enough room to avoid a collision.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with lower steady speed". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded “inadequate surveillance”. The associated factor was coded failed to look to side ahead.