This two-vehicle crash occurred on an undivided, straight roadway that consists of one lane in each direction. The northbound lane has an eleven percent downhill grade and the southbound lane has a seven percent uphill grade. The speed limit for this roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours and it was raining.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Plymouth, was northbound in lane one, following a non-contact vehicle (NCV). Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Dodge Caravan, was southbound in lane one. The NCV slowed to turn right into a driveway. V1 steered left to avoid the NCV and the front struck the front of V2. V2 rotated counterclockwise and the right side struck a pole off the west side of the road. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was a male who was traveling with a twenty-seven-year-old female. This driver was not interviewed. No further information is available for him. V1 had minimal tread on the front tires.

The driver of V2, a thirty-six-year-old female, was traveling with her seven-year-old daughter. They were on their way home from dropping off the daughter's friend at her home. This driver was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. She was talking to and looking at her daughter just prior to the crash and did not see V1 until a second before the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; over the lane line on left side of travel lane." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; following too closely to respond to unexpected actions." The minimal tire tread on the front tires of this vehicle and the wet road were associated factors in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's inadequate surveillance was an associated factor in this crash.