The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a high occupancy, high volume, and high-speed interstate highway. There were five northbound lanes with both right and left side paved emergency shoulders. There were concrete barrier walls separating the north from the southbound traffic. The road widths were a standard 3.7 meters and the emergency-paved shoulders were 3.5 meters. The road was straight and level. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekend night. The posted speed was a 105 KMPH (65 MPH). The crash occurred right before an exit so lane one was the exit ramp.

V1 was an unknown vehicle that was black in color and traveling northbound. The unknown vehicle was traveling in an unknown lane and cut into lane two in an attempt to get off the interstate. Lane two was already occupied by V2, a 2003 Saturn Vue utility vehicle. The driver of V2 was driving along in lane two when V1 cut into his lane and clipped his left front side. The unknown vehicle fled the scene and no other information was obtained for this vehicle. After impact, V2 spun clockwise across lane one and the exit lane until the left tires tripped on the right side grassy downhill embankment and caused V2 to roll 4 quarter turns, landing on its tires facing southbound. V2's final rest was 24.8 meters east of the roadway. V2 was towed due to damages. The driver of V2 and his passenger refused treatment from the EMS at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1 and 105 kmph for V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the right side of travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was unknown as the driver fled the scene. There was no other information obtained regarding the driver who caused the crash, and so no associated factors could be coded to V1.

V2 was driven by a 39-year old male. He and his passenger were traveling northbound in lane two when an unknown black vehicle needed to get off in the exit and cut him off clipping his left front. When V1 hit V2, it caused V2 to spin out of control clockwise till its tires tripped on the grassy road edge. V2 then rolled 4 quarter turns to the left, landing on its tires facing southbound. No one was injured but the vehicle was towed.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from the adjacent lane (same direction) over the left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. One associated factor that was coded to this driver was conversation with the passenger.