This three-vehicle crash occurred on an on-ramp to an interstate. The on-ramp is undivided with two one-way travel lanes. This roadway is bituminous, straight and level, with a posted speed limit of 105 kmph (65 mph). There is a traffic control located at the crash scene that is used during morning and evening rush hour to control the flow. The traffic control was not scheduled to be working at the time of the crash. This crash occurred during daylight hours in the mid afternoon with moderate traffic congestion.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Freightliner tractor-trailer with one occupant, was eastbound in lane one of the on-ramp going straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Honda Civic with one occupant was eastbound in lane one stopped behind vehicle three. Vehicle three (V3), a 1994 Volkswagen Golf with one occupant, was eastbound, stopped in lane one. The driver of V1 applied his brakes to avoid impacting V2 and was unable to stop. The front of V1 impacted the rear of V2. V1 pushed V2 forward and the front of V2 struck the rear of V3. V1 and V2 stayed together to final rest, with V1 impacting a sign with its right side at the time. V1 came to rest on its wheels facing northeast in lane two on top of V1. V2 came to rest on its wheels facing northwest in lane two. After the impact, V3 was pushed forward and ran off the right side of the roadway impacting a light pole with its front. V3 then continued eastbound on the side of the road for 8.8 meters and came to rest on its wheels facing east. All three vehicles were towed from the scene of the crash. The driver of V3 was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1 and 80 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a fifty-four year-old male, was traveling from one gas station to another, delivering gas. He stated once he got on the on-ramp, he was looking in his left side mirrors at lane two and traffic on the interstate. The driver stated when he looked forward, traffic was stopped for no apparent reason, and the control light was not working at the time. He was well rested, is in fair health and was sick at the time with a bladder infection that he has had for a while. He takes Sulfamethsxdone, Vitamins, Effexor XR and Tricor in on a regular basis. He is very familiar with the vehicle and drives this route whenever dispatched; the exact frequency was not divulged.

According to the witness, driver of V1 stated he had dropped his clipboard and was picking it up. Driver one also stated that driver two said he was honking at driver three to get their attention, and was also wondering why driver three had stopped.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical pre-crash reason for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction, picking up the clipboard. Associative factors include failed to look far enough ahead and congested traffic. He was checking his rear view mirrors for oncoming traffic.

The driver of V2 is a thirty-two year-old male. Little is known about the driver due to unsuccessful attempts by phone to reach him.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V3, a forty-eight year-old female had left work and was going to a store. She is in good health and takes no medication or drugs. She wears reading glasses to read only and did not have them on at the time. Little else is know due to the driver was getting very irritated with the questions and the researcher was unsuccessful in getting a hold of her later to finish the interview. The driver stated that she was stopped due to vehicles in front of her waiting to get onto the interstate.

V3 was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.