This three-vehicle multi-event crash occurred on a straight, level, two-lane, two-way, north/south bituminous roadway with an intersecting T-intersection coming in from the east. There was no traffic control devices for north/south traffic. Westbound traffic was controlled by a passive stop sign. The posted speed limit for all directions was 72 kph (45 mph). Setting was afternoon hours on a weekday. Conditions were daylight, overcast and dry.

Vehicle I was a 1989 Oldsmobile Ninety-Eight Regency, four door, full-size with one occupant traveling northbound in lane one. Vehicle 2 was a 1995 Oldsmobile Cutlass Ciera, four door, intermediate with one occupant traveling westbound in lane one. V3 was a 1995 Toyota Tercel, four door, subcompact with three occupants traveling southbound in lane one. VI was traveling at 64 kph (40 mph) as it approached the T-intersection. V2 had stopped at its stop with the intention to turn left and travel south. When V2 proceeded it did not see VI and collided wth the right front of V2 (event 1). V2 came to final rest around the area of impact. The force of V2 hitting the right front of VI caused VI to cross the double yellow line and travel north in the southbound lane. (VI left 33.3 meters (109 feet) of right front tire marks post impact with V2.) VI continued to travel north in the south lane and contacted the front of V3 in the southbound lane (event 2). V3 noticed VI coming towards it and attempted to avoid a collision by locking its brakes and steering right. V3 left 13.5 meters (44 feet) of visible skid marks prior to impact. After impact, V3 traveled backwards and struck a guardrail located.2.7 meters (8.8 feet) west off the roadway with its right side (event 3). V3 then struck a metal warning sign (event 4) with its right rear before coming to final rest. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

The driver of VI, a 91 year-old retired male, sustained minor injuries and was not transported from the scene. He had just come from a neighbor's house and was on his way home as he does daily. He estimated his traveling speed at 64 kph (40 mph). He said he was driving straight ahead when V2 pulled out and hit his right side. He couldn't make any avoidance maneuvers. After impact, he instinctively steered left and ended up in the opposite travel lane. He was disoriented from the first impact and shifted out of his seat because he wasn't wearing his seatbelt. He never saw V3 until he contacted him head-on. His vehicle suffered disabling damage and was towed from the scene.

The Critical Pre crash Event for VI was "other vehicle encroachment- from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver has a history of throat illness. He claims to have had throat surgery in the past. This driver was hard of hearing and took a while to process my questions. I believe due to his age, his reaction times were decreased and possibly caused him to become disoriented after the first impact. The cloudy day was coded as an associated atmospheric factor.

The driver of V2, a 51 year-old male, was not injured in the crash. He had just left his job parking lot driveway, with the intention of going home to eat when he crashed. He said as he approached the T-intersection, he stopped, looked left, then right, then left again before proceeding to make his left turn. When he accelerated he struck the right side of VI and came to final rest in the roadway. When he looked left, he never saw VI. He thinks the dark color of VI obscured his view of it. He said VI blended in with the trees and the shadows. His vehicle was towed from the scene front-end damage.

The Critical Pre crash Event for V2 was "this vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "Inadequate surveillance-looked but did not see." This driver told me he looked, left, then right, then left again before proceeding, but still never saw VI coming. The driver admitted that his company has been cutting overtime and its put a strain of him financially, but says its wasn't on his mind prior to the crash- this was a possible inattention factor. He also made a decision error by turning left without signalling. The cloudy skies were an environmental factor as well as him not being able to see VI because its color blended into the background.

The driver of V3, a 40 year-old female, was not injured in the crash. She is a prison worker who just picked her daughter up from high school to take her for monthly allergy shots. She reported only working a half day. She was driving straight at 56 kph (35 mph). She saw V2 pull out and strike VI, then VI unexpectedly encroached into her travel lane. She hit the brakes and steered right to try and avoid a collision, but was unsuccessful. She said at impact she was almost stopped and that VI was still traveling at a high rate of speed and didn't think he attempted to slow down after V2 hit him. The impact pushed her vehicle backwards into a guardrail and sign. Her vehicle was towed with front-end damage.

The Critical Pre crash Event for V3 was "other- not involved in the first harmful event." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle because it was not in the first harmful event. The driver reported talking to her daughter about family matters just prior to impact events. All four tires lacked adequate tread depth and the left rear tire lacked adequate tire pressure. The cloudy skies were also an associated factor for this driver.