This two-vehicle crash occurred in a rural area on a 2-lane asphalt roadway. The northbound lane is straight and slightly downhill. The speed limit for this section of roadway is 89 kmph (55 mph) with a warning sign for a junction 0.8 kilometers (1/2 mile) ahead. The advisory speed limit prior to the 1.6 kilometers (1 mile) before the junction is 72 kmph (45 mph). The crash occurred during mid-afternoon during daylight hours with some weekend traffic congestion. There were no adverse weather conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Honda Accord sedan, was northbound following vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Toyota 4-Runner towing a pop-up camper. The front end of V1 impacted with the rear-end of V2's trailer pushing it into the rear-end of V2. V2 was pushed forward then steered left crossing both travel lane and coming to rest partially in the southbound lane facing south. V1 continued forward and came to rest on the northbound shoulder facing north. V1 was towed due to damage. V2 was driven from the scene and the trailer was towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty six (26) year-old female, had traveled 161 kilometers (100 miles) from her residence on her way to meet friends at a lake area another 48 kilometers (30 miles) away. She stated she had been following V2 for some time and looked down inside her vehicle for a moment. When she looked up, V2 had stopped in the middle of the roadway. She applied her brakes and ran into the back of the trailer being towed by V2.

The driver of V2, a forty (40) year-old male, was traveling with his wife and three young children to go on a camping trip. He stated he was slowing down for traffic ahead of him. He knew there was a stop sign ahead at the junction. He was almost stopped when V1 ran into the back of his trailer. He stated he saw the driver of V1 through his rear-view mirror and that she was looking down and not paying attention. He commented to his wife that he thought they were going to be hit from behind. At impact, he steered right then steered left across both lane to get out of the way of traffic.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: internal distraction.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.