This two-vehicle early afternoon, daylight T-bone type collision occurred at the controlled intersection of two city streets. The southbound road is the dominant roadway with four lanes of one-way travel paved in concrete and a downhill grade of -4%. The east-west roadway has two lanes of two-way travel and is paved with bituminous asphalt before and after the intersection. Approaching the intersection, the westbound traffic has a downhill grade of -15% that flattens in the intersection. The speed limit for both roads is 40 kmph (25 mph). At the time of the crash, there were a few snow flurries, but the pavement was dry.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 BMW 735i sedan driven by a fifty nine (59) year old male, was heading south in lane four next to a lane of parked cars. Vehicle two (V2), a 1985 Honda Accord sedan driven by a twenty three (23) year old male with two passengers was headed west in lane one. V2 entered the intersection at the same time as V1, and the front of V1 struck the right side of V2. V2 did not rotate but slid southwest a few feet. V1 rotated slightly clockwise and came to rest against V2. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage, but no occupants were transported due to injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was uncooperative with all persons on scene, and refused to be interviewed.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event is coded to V1 as a driver related factor: illegal maneuver, for disregard of traffic signal. Based on driver of V2 statement and the police report, the driver of V2 entered the intersection on a yellow light and V1 entered on a red light, not allowing V2 time to clear the intersection.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle.