Case #2007-41-141

The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a two-way, eleven-lane interstate roadway divided by a concrete barrier wall. This was an interchange area, with off-ramps on both sides of the southbound interstate. In addition to the two exit lanes, there were four through lanes, which curved slightly to the left. This was a level, asphalt roadway with a posted speed of 105 kmph (65 mph). Conditions were dark with streetlights, on a weekday evening. The roads were wet and it was raining heavily. Traffic flow was normal. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1.

V1, a 2003 Nissan Xterra with two occupants, was traveling in lane three. The driver failed to maintain control of her vehicle on the wet roadway. The vehicle began to skid laterally in a clockwise direction as it traveled toward the guardrail on the right side of the interstate. The front of V1 made contact with the guardrail. As the vehicle continued to rotate, the first impact was followed immediately by a second impact. This time, the left rear of V1 made contact with the guardrail. V1 was still rotating when it rolled over. The Xterra rolled to the right, three quarter-turns, coming to final rest on its left side. The vehicle was towed due to damage.

The Xterra was driven by a 31-year old female, who was treated on-scene for her injuries. She stated that she and her girlfriend were on their way to another friend's house. According to the driver, it was raining heavily. Another vehicle cut her off and she lost control due to the weather conditions. The passenger, who had left the scene prior to the researcher's arrival, was interviewed separately. The passenger made no mention of being cut off by a phantom vehicle. Instead, the passenger said that she and the driver were talking to one another when suddenly it felt as if the vehicle started to hydroplane.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “this vehicle loss of control due to traveling too fast for conditions”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related decision error, too fast for conditions. Specifically, the driver failed to slow down when encountering slippery roadway conditions. One associated factor for this driver was recognition-related. The motorist was having a social conversation with her passenger at the time of the crash. An additional factor was performance-related. The driver's avoidance actions were an indication of overcompensation. A final factor was the presence of wet roads and heavy rain.