This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. Both roadways are straight and divided by curbed medians. The northbound approach is level and consists of two through lanes, a left turn lane and a right turn lane. The westbound approach has an uphill grade and consists of two through lanes and a left turn lane. The speed limit for these roadways is 80 kmph (50 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Chevrolet S10 Blazer, was northbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Ford Explorer, was westbound in lane three, turning left. In the intersection, the front of V1 struck the left side of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-two-year-old female, was traveling with her three children. They had left their home and were on the way to school. They were in a hurry because they were late. This driver was well rested, healthy and comfortable wit her vehicle and passengers. She stated that she accelerated as she passed through the intersection.

The driver of V2, a forty-year-old female, was traveling with her mother and young child. They had dropped the driver's other children at school and were on their way home. This driver was well rested, healthy and comfortable wit her vehicle and passengers. She stated that she saw V1 approaching but "hoped she would stop. "

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver rushing to get her children to school on time was as associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "driver related factor; false assumption of other's actions."