Case Summary 2007-41-093

The crash occurred in the intersection of a four-way intersection leading to a church parking lot. Each intersection roadway was controlled by a stop sign. The crash occurred in the northbound roadway where there were three lanes. Lane one was a straight and right turn lane, lane two was closed, and lane three was for southbound traffic. The conditions were cloudy and raining on a weekend afternoon. The posted speed was 48 Kmph (30 Mph). The roadway was straight and level. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

V1 was a 1998 Dodge Intrepid that was traveling northbound in lane one when the driver hit the back of V2, a 1982 Mercedes Benz that was stopped at the stop sign. V1 hit the back of V2 and pushed V2 into the middle of the intersection. The driver of V2 was transported to the hospital with neck injuries. V1 was towed due to damages.

V1 was driven by a 34-year-old male who was following V2 to drop off her friend's car that she had borrowed while her car was being repaired. The driver of V1 was a friend of the driver of V2. The driver of V1 stated that he was following his friend to do an errand, when he said she stopped at the stop sign and he for no reason just hit the back of V2. He stated he didn't know what happened to cause him to hit his friend who had stopped at the stop sign in front of him. He said he saw the stop sign but could not give a reason for why he was not able to stop in time without hitting the back of V2. V1 was towed due to front-end damage and deployed airbags, but no one was injured.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was: Another vehicle in lane stopped. The Critical Reason was: Driver related error, unknown recognition. An associative factor was that this was the first time the driver ever drove V1 and he stated that his personal vehicle was a stick shift. Another associative factor was the heavy rainfall. V1 was cited for the crash for failure to use due care and failure to stop at a traffic control device.

V2 was driven by a 36-year-old woman who owned V1. The driver stated in her interview that she was on the way to drop off her friend's vehicle that she had borrowed while her vehicle was being repaired. A friend of the family was driving her car behind her. She stated that she stopped at the stop sign and looked both ways when she felt a hard hit from behind that pushed her into the intersection. She stated that she didn't realize her friend hit her until he got out of the car and came up to her window to see if she was ok. She stated she had no idea how he could have hit her and why. She was injured and was transported to a local hospital with injures. V2 suffered minor rear end damage and was not towed due.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was: Another vehicle in lane traveling at a higher rate of speed. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. An associative factor related to this driver was that V2 was her friend's vehicle and it was the first time she had ever driven this car. The vehicle was not towed.