This three-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged intersection. Both roadways are undivided, straight, level and consist of one lane in each direction. The westbound approach is controlled by a stop sign. The speed limit for these roadways is 48 kmph (30 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Chevrolet Impala, was westbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 Cadillac Deville, was northbound in lane one. Vehicle three (V3), a 1982 Ford F150 pickup, was parked (unoccupied) outside the trafficway in the northwest corner of the intersection. V1 stopped at the intersection and then turned left. The front of V1 struck the front of V2. V2 traveled to the northwest and the front struck the right side of V3. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a fifty-four-year-old female, was on her way home from work. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she did not see V2 until she had started her turn. She is a minister and was emotionally upset at the time of the crash related to problems with members of her congregation.

The driver of V2, a seventy-eight-year-old male, was on his way to work from his home. He was well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that he has heart problems and takes the medications Advair, Furosemide, Avapro, Isosorbide Mononitrate, Aspirin, Aciphex, Crestor, Terazosin, Toprol-XL, Potassium Chloride, Calcium, Dolacet and vitamins. This driver further stated that he honked his horn when he saw V1 enter his lane.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)." This driver's emotional state was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."