This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. On the west side of the intersection, the roadway is undivided with eastbound traffic lanes consisting of one through lane and one left turn lane. On the south side of the intersection, the roadway is undivided with northbound traffic lanes consisting of one through lane and one left turn lane. This roadway is straight and level, with a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). This crash occurred during nighttime hours with no traffic congestion.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Honda Accord with only the driver present was eastbound in lane one, approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Honda Civic with two occupants present was northbound in lane two attempting to make a left turn. Both V1 and V2 entered the intersection at the same time where the front of V1 struck the left front side of V2. After impact V1 traveled off the roadway on the north side of the intersection before coming to rest facing east. After impact V2 continued northbound until coming to rest in lane one of northbound traffic. V1 was driven from the scene and V2 was towed due to damage. No one was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

A witness was southbound approaching the intersection. The witness stated southbound traffic as well as V2 had a green light. She also stated that it appeared V2 was slowing to make a left turn. She saw V1 run the red light and strike V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-one-year-old female, was on her way home from work and listening to the radio when the crash occurred. She stated she was rested, drives this route daily and is very comfortable with her vehicle. The driver also stated being in good health and not taking any medications. She claimed no distractions but was not aware of V2's presence until just before impact. The driver failed to obey/observe the traffic control prior to entering the intersection on a red light.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment-from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor was inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see), and disregard for the traffic controls. The driver stated she did not see V2 until impact.

The driver of V2 is a 44 year old male traveling with another 44 year-old male passenger in the right front seat. Little is known about the driver of V2 due to him not giving any contact information on-scene and not returning the researcher's request for interview.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as a driver related factor: type of driver error unknown.