This two-vehicle crash occurred late in the afternoon during daylight hours. The location was an urban area with commercial retail buildings. The intersection where the crash occurred has overhead on-color traffic control signals with crosswalk lights. The roadway was a five lane, undivided, level, bituminous roadway with center left turn only lanes. The weather was dry and clear. The posted speed limit is 64 kmph (40 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1988 Volkswagen Jetta two door sedan, driven by a forty four (44) year old male was northbound in the center left turn only lane. V1 entered the intersection on a green light and started to negotiate a left turn across traffic to westbound. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Jeep Sport Utility four door SUV driven by a fifty three (53) year old female, was traveling southbound in the outside lane approaching the intersection. V2 entered the intersection on a green light and impacted with V1 head-on. On impact V1 was pushed rearward and came to rest facing north on the crosswalk in the center lane. V2 rotated counter-clockwise toward the southwest corner of the intersection. V2 then went up onto the curb and coasted to a stop facing east behind V1. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

Driver of V1 was driving with suspended driver licence and was unavailable for an interview.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was attributed to V1 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). According to the driver's statement in the police report, the traffic light turned yellow and he proceeded with his turn. The driver did not see V2 prior to commencing his turn.

The driver of V2 was on her way home from a horse back riding lesson. She stated that she never saw V1 prior to impact. She was in good health and takes the medications Atenolol and Detrol.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.