The crash occurred in a T-intersection of two roadways. The north/south roadway was two-way with one lane of travel in each direction. The east/west roadway was two-way with one lane in each direction with a grade measurement of 3/61. The intersection was controlled by a three way stop sign. The roadways were straight, bituminous with a speed limit of 48kmph (30mph), and it was daylight and clear with no adverse conditions. It was during the morning hours of a weekday.

V1, a 2007 Ford Fusion four door with one occupant was traveling southbound. V2, a 2004 Acura TSX four door with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane one and attempting to make a left turn. At the intersection, the front of V1 contacted the left side of V2. V2 rotated counter-clockwise and came to a final rest on the northeast corner of the intersection. V2 came to a final rest approximately two meters south of the point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Ford Fusion, was driven by a 44 year-old male who reported no injuries. He advised to the Police that V2 stopped in the middle of the intersection. The Police reported that the driver was unlicensed, but was not cited any citations. The driver attempted to brake for the stop sign leaving skid marks past the crosswalk. The driver declined to participate in the survey.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V1 was "Other vehicle encroachment from crossing street turning into opposite direction". The Critical Reason for the Critical event was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to the driver was an illegal maneuver, he failed to stop for the stop sign. A highway related factor was a sightline restriction due to a house on the northwest corner. The other possible associated factors were coded unknown because no interview was obtained.

V2, the Acura TSX, was driven by a pregnant 29 year-old female who reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. She stated to the Police that the driver of V1 disregarded the stop sign. She stated that there was a three way stop, she stopped and looked, there were no cars so she proceeded to make a left turn. She saw V1 coming and attempted to accelerate to speed up, but the other car hit her left back door and wheel.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "This vehicle traveling turning left at intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical event was coded “inadequate surveillance“. A highway related factor was a sightline restriction due to a house on the northwest corner.