A three-vehicle daytime rear end type collision occurred approaching an intersection on a four lane, two-way road with a left turn lane. The North/South asphalt paved roadway has a slight downgrade at pre-crash of 5% and a downgrade of 4% at impact. The speed limit for all vehicles is 48 kmph (30 mph). At the time of the crash the sky was clear. Traffic at the intersection is controlled by traffic signals.

Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Mini Cooper with only a driver, was stopped at the intersection in northbound lane two. Vehicle three (V3), a 2004 Toyota Solara with only a driver, was stopping in the northbound left turn lane. Vehicle one (V1), a 1993 Plymouth Voyager mini-van with only a driver, was traveling north in lane two. V1 began to slow down to approach the stopped traffic at the intersection, when the driver of V1 at this time noticed that the brakes failed to stop the vehicle. The driver of V1 looked to the right to find a spot to pull the vehicle over, but did not see any room due to traffic. The driver of V1 then activated the parking brake and attempted to pull the vehicle into a gap between V2 and V3. The front plane of V1 then struck the rear plane of V2. V2 was pushed forward due to the impact and came to its' final rest. The left plane of V1 also impacted the right plane of V3 causing minor damage. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene and V3 was driven. None of the occupants were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 57 year-old female. The driver stated she was headed toward the light, began to stop, and her brakes did not work. She also stated she applied her "hand brake" and that she tried to go into the gap between the two cars. She drives the route daily and is familiar with the vehicle. The driver stated the brakes worked earlier in the day.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event assigned to this driver is a vehicle related factor: brakes failed. The reporting officer noted that the brakes: "... did obviously go to the floor with no tension. Obviously inoperable. Driver #1 had also attempted to stop with parking brake which was engaged."

The driver of V2 was a 60 year-old female. The driver stated she saw something out of the corner of her eye, looking to her left. She then stated she was then struck by the van from behind. She drives the route monthly and is familiar with the vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V3 was a 36-year-old female. This driver was not able to be located for an interview. V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle.