The crash occurred off the roadway of a four-lane residential roadway. There were two lanes northbound and two lanes southbound, divided by a grassy median. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekday morning. The roadway was straight and level. The posted speed was 56 KMPH (35 MPH).

V1 was a 1997 Ford F-250 pickup truck that was traveling northbound in lane one. V1 was towing a trailer full of pool supplies. As the driver proceeded northbound, a non-contact Mercedes SUV began to encroach into V1's lane. It was believed that the Mercedes tried to do this because there was some building construction going on and traffic was being directed into lane one. The driver of V1 stated that since he was carrying pool chemicals in his trailer he was trying to avoid a crash with the SUV. The driver of V1 tried to brake and steer to the right to avoid hitting the SUV and the men in the median who were directing traffic. V1 then departed the roadway on the right, and then hit a concrete wall fence with the front of V1. The driver was transported due to the inhalation of chlorine and a HAZMAT team was called in to clean the roadway. V1 was towed due to damages and the non-contact SUV continued without stopping. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1.

The driver of V1 was a 34-year-old male who was working and was on his way to another job. The driver worked for a pool cleaning service and was towing pool chemicals such as chlorine. The driver stated in his interview that the non-contact SUV that cut into his lane was "inches from his bumper" and to avoid hitting the vehicle, his natural reaction was to steer to the right and hit the brakes. The driver locked his brakes, departed the roadway, and hit a concrete barrier wall head on. A witness, who was one of the construction workers in the median, confirmed the driver's story to police.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was this vehicle traveling off the right side of the roadway. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver error, incorrect evasive action, as the driver maybe could have avoided a crash all together if he had just hit the brakes and not steered to the right. The roadway was closed for a few hours to clean up the spilled chlorine. Two of the construction workers were transported due to chemical inhalation. The work zone was coded as an associated factor.