This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged intersection. Both roadways are undivided, straight, level and consist of one lane in each direction. The north/south roadway is controlled by stop signs and flashing red signals and the speed limit is 89 kmph (55 mph). The east/west roadway is controlled by flashing yellow signals and the speed limit is 97 kmph (60 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Plymouth Voyager, was northbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Toyota Sienna, was eastbound in lane one. In the intersection, the front of V2 struck the left side of V1. The vehicles rotated and the left side of V1 struck the right side of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-eight-year-old female, was on her way from a cabin to a bait shop. She was healthy and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she was thinking about getting the bait and getting back to her boyfriend at the cabin while the fish were still biting. She also stated that she was stressed at work because the business is closing and she will be losing her job. She further stated that she felt fatigued. Additionally, she stated that she looked left and did not see V2 until just before the crash. A witness stated that this driver was talking on a cell phone as she approached the intersection. Also, the result of this driver's Breathalyzer indicated a BAC of 0.174.

The driver of V2, a sixty-two-year-old female, was on her way home from her mother's home with a sixty-six-year-old male passenger. She was in good health and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. She travels this route weekly. This driver stated that she had been driving for about three-and-a-half hours, was about five minutes from home and felt fatigued at the time of the crash. She has heart problems and takes the medications Toprol-XL and ibuprofen. This driver stated that she saw V1 approaching the intersection but assumed that it would stop.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; internal distraction." This driver's fatigue, inattention, inadequate surveillance, rushing and alcohol use were associated factors in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's assumption of right-of-way was an associated factor in this crash.