The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. Both were concrete four-lane, one-way roadways with a positive grade and a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The eastbound roadway was straight but the southbound roadway curved left with a radius of 2250 meters and a superelevation of 2 percent. Both roadways had a traffic control device on colors with a pedestrian signal. It was afternoon on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic was flowing.

V1, a 2005 Chevrolet Tahoe utility vehicle with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane four. V1 was approaching the intersection intending to go straight. V2, a 2006 Chevrolet Malibu four-door sedan with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane three. V2 was stopped at the light waiting to go straight. The light turned green for the driver of V2 and he proceeded into the intersection. There was a city truck next to V2 blocking the view of V1. The driver of V2 stated that they both started to go and then the city truck stopped. V2 proceeded and saw V1 right before impact. The driver applied the brakes but could not avoid V1. The driver of V1 stated that he was thinking of concerns and was not paying attention to the roadway. He stated that he saw V2 right before impact and applied the brakes, but could not avoid contacting V2. The front of V1 contacted the left front of V2 before they both came to final rest in lane one of the eastbound roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Chevrolet Tahoe, was driven by a 45-year old male. He reported no injuries and refused treatment. He stated that he had just come from his restaurant and was on this way to pay his utility bill. He stated that he had been traveling between 50-64 kmph (31-40 mph) when he attempted braking. He could not avoid contacting V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was: Other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle; however, several associated factors were coded to the driver. The driver was coded as inattentive (daydreaming) because he stated that he was thinking about his concerns and not paying attention to the roadway. He also failed to look either side ahead, failed to stop for a traffic control device, and was unfamiliar with the roadway.

V2, the Chevrolet Malibu, was driven by a 66-year old male. He reported no injuries and refused treatment. He stated that he had just left the pharmacy and was on his way home. He stated that he was stopped at the light for more than ten seconds and then proceeded at 2-16 kmph (1-10 mph) when he was struck by V1.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was: This vehicle traveling - crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as an "other" decision error - crossed with obstructed view, because the driver entered the intersection while his view of southbound traffic was blocked by the city truck. Associated factors coded to this driver include the use of prescription medication for arthritis, a sightline restriction caused by the city truck next to him, and unfamiliarity with the roadway.