The crash occurred at a T-intersection of straight, bituminous, two-way roads. V1 was traveling on a two-lane road on a downhill 3% slope with a speed limit of 89 kmh (55 mph) controlled by a stop sign. V2 was traveling on a three-lane road on a downhill 3% slope with a posted speed limit of 56 kmh (35 mph), with no controls. Conditions at the time of the weekday morning crash were dawn, cloudy and dry.

V1, a 1990 Ford Ranger XLT Super cab pick-up truck, was driven by an 18 year-old male. The driver of v1, on his way from home to work, was northbound on the road approaching the intersection. V1 stopped at the stop sign for 2-3 seconds. The driver stated that he looked left and saw v2 approaching, looked right, and then pulled out to turn left in front of v2. The driver stated that although he drives that way weekly, he forgot that only the northbound and westbound lanes have stop signs. The driver of v1 braked, but the front of v1 struck the right front of v2 in the intersection. V1 came to rest, in the intersection facing north. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver denied injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 2007 Ford Focus 4-door sedan, was driven by a 48 year-old male on his way from home to work. The driver stated that he saw v1 stop at the stop sign and then pull out in front of him. The driver of v2 steered left and then braked (full ABS application), but could not avoid the crash. V2 came to rest in the intersection facing northeast, and was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver denied injuries.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to the driver of v1 was 'this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection.' The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded was 'driver related factor-decision error-false assumption of other road users actions.' A Contributing Factor coded to this driver was 'an other recognition error-forgot that eastbound traffic does not stop at intersection.' Associated factors coded to this driver include 'personal concerns' (not thinking of them at time of crash), and '4 hours of recreational activity in week prior to crash'.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to the driver of v2 was 'other vehicle encroachment from crossing street turning into opposite direction.' The Critical Reason was not coded to this driver. An Associated Factor coded to this driver was 'second time driving this vehicle', however, the driver drives the same make and model of vehicle every day.