This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. On the south side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a curbed median and the northbound traffic lanes consist of a right-turn lane, two through lanes, and two left-turn lanes. On the north side of the intersection, the roadway is undivided with seven lanes of travel. The southbound traffic lanes consist of a left-turn lane, three through lanes, and a right-turn lane. This roadway is straight and level, with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred in the early afternoon with lunchtime traffic congestion.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Volvo V70-XC with three occupants, was turning left at the intersection, northbound in lane five, the inside turn lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Ford Mustang with two occupants, was traveling southbound in lane two, approaching the intersection. The driver of V1 saw southbound traffic stopped in lanes one, three, and four and proceeded to turn left on a yellow light. V2 entered the intersection at the same time and the front of V1 impacted the left side of V2. V2 rotated counterclockwise and impacted the raised island on the southwest corner of the intersection, first with its right front tire, and then with its right rear tire. The right rear tire disengaged from V2 upon impact and V2 continued to rotate counterclockwise, coming to final rest on the raised island facing north-northeast. V1 continued in its left turn motion after the initial impact and came to rest facing west in lane two, west of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The three occupants in V1 and the driver in V2 were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-seven-year-old female, was coming from a friend's house and going to a store. She stated that she saw cars stopped in the other lanes and proceeded to make the left turn. She also felt sure that these cars blocked her view of V2 and that was the cause of the crash. She was well rested, very comfortable with her vehicle, and drives this route daily. She is near sighted and was wearing her prescription sunglasses at the time of the crash. She is in good health and takes no medications.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver decision factor: turned with obstructed view.

The driver of V2, a twenty-four-year-old male, was driving from home to work. He was well rested, very comfortable with his vehicle, and drives this route daily. He stated he works long hours at a stressful job as manager of a restaurant. He described his health as fair because he is somewhat overweight, but doesn't have any pre-existing health conditions and takes no medications. Medical records indicate a BAC of 0.129 and aspirin intake.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction, over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle. Stopped vehicles at the intersection also obstructed the view for this driver of V1.