This two-vehicle crash occurred on a jersey barrier-divided, straight trafficway. The northbound lanes have an uphill grade and consist of four through lanes with shoulders and barriers on both sides. The speed limit for this roadway is 89 kmph (55 mph). It was dark with streetlights on at the time of the crash with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Ford Explorer, was northbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Honda Civic, was northbound in lane one. A non-contact vehicle in lane two changed lanes into lane three. The driver of V1 steered left to avoid this non-contact vehicle and traveled off the left side of the roadway. The front and then the left side of V1 struck the jersey barrier. V1 then returned to the roadway, across all lanes and the front struck the left side of V2. The right side of V1 then struck the left side of V2. V2 traveled off the right side of the roadway and the front struck the jersey barrier. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-two-year-old female and her twenty-three-year-old female passenger were not interviewed. No further information is available for this driver.

The driver of V2, a thirty-four-year-old male, was on his way from his home to drop off some movies. He was well rested, healthy and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that he saw V1 hit the barrier and move toward him, so he applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from adjacent lane (same direction) - over right lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; overcompensation."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "not involved first harmful event." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."