This two-vehicle crash occurred during the early afternoon hours of a weekday. The collision took place on an urban three-lane expressway. All travel lanes were designated for straight, southbound travel. A grass median to the left of the roadway divided the trafficway up into several other isolated roadways. The posted speed limit for the roadway was 64 kmph (40 mph). The surface type for the roadway was that of bituminous asphalt. The roadway was flat, wet, and level, without any indications of physical damage. Weather conditions were cloudy and cold, with no rain.

V2, a 1998 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan, was traveling southbound in lane three of the roadway when it was struck on its right side by V1, a hit-and-run vehicle believed to be a Mazda Millenia (model year unknown). V1 was said to be traveling in lane two of the roadway when it attempted to switch into lane three. Following this impact, V2 veered left and struck a curb edge within a sewage drain. V2 proceeded to climb the curb onto the center median, where it struck a breakaway pole and came to final rest. Both frontal airbags fully deployed. The driver was not injured in this crash. V1 fled the scene and was never caught. V2 had to be towed away from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

The driver of V2, a 42 year-old male in generally good health, reported he was on his way home from the post office when the crash occurred. He was minding his own business when another vehicle "came from nowhere" and "hit me." When he was initially struck, the driver of V2 tried to look over to see the other vehicle but could not do so as his airbags deployed. Despite having his seatbelt on, the driver claimed he was "knocked out for a few seconds." He said once he regained consciousness again, his vehicle began to reverse backwards. When asked why this may have happened, the driver stated he possibly could have hit the gear shifter. At this point, the driver turned off his ignition to stop the vehicle. The driver was unemployed and does routine housework to pass his time. He said he had his license since the year 1982 and that this was his first-ever crash.

Upon turning on the ignition during the vehicle inspection, the researcher discovered music playing rather loud in V2. The driver of V1 fled the scene and was never discovered. No other information was obtained.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The Critical Reason was coded as "Type of driver error unknown" due to the lack of interview. No associated factors could be coded to the driver of V1.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane (same direction) - over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded for this driver. No associated factors were coded to the driver of V2.