The crash occurred in the northbound lane of a two-lane two-way undivided roadway. The road was straight, bituminous, level, and dry. The posted speed limit was 64 kmph (40 mph). The crash occurred in the late evening on a weekday and the skies were clear. The traffic flow was steadily moving.

V1, a 1998 Mercury Tracer 4-door was traveling south intending on making a left turn at the intersection. V2, a 1991 GMC Sonoma pick-up truck was traveling north intending on continuing straight through the intersection. When V1 approached the intersection, V1 stopped allowing the traffic coming from the opposite direction to create a clear path for her intended left turn. A non-contact vehicle traveling northbound stopped, as well as the non-contact vehicle traveling behind them, waiting to make a left turn at the intersection. V2 was traveling behind both of the non-contact vehicles and steered right to pass them on the shoulder. As V1 turned left the front of V1 contacted the front of V2. V1 then continued rotating counter-clockwise hitting a telephone pole. Both vehicles came to final rest just a little northeast of point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the 1998 Mercury Tracer, was driven by a 41-year-old female who reported non-incapacitating injuries and was transported to a medical facility. The driver was traveling south in lane one intending on making a left turn at the intersection. According to the police report, V1 made a left when two non-contact vehicles were stopped trying to make a left facing the opposite direction. V1 though the roadway was clear and made her turn and struck V2 in the process.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling- turning left at intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was “turned with obstructed view”. Without a driver interview, the only associated factors that could be coded to the vehicle is that the impending problem was masked by traffic flow pattern and the sightline restriction of the other vehicles stopped in the travel lane.

V2, the 1991 GMC Sonoma, was driven by a 38-year-old male who reported no injuries. The driver was traveling north in lane one and when he saw the non-contact vehicles stopped in front of him, he steered to the right passed the vehicles and continued at constant velocity through the intersection on the shoulder. He did not see that V1 was waiting to make a left turn.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded as, "other vehicle encroachment- from opposite direction- over left lane line". The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this driver. The only other associated factors that could be coded to this driver are the illegal maneuver of passing on the right and the sightline restriction of the non-contact vehicle.