This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged intersection. Both roadways are level, straight, undivided and consist of one lane in each direction. The east and west approaches are controlled by stop signs. The speed limit on the north/south roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). The speed limit on the north/south roadway is 40 kmph (25 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Chevrolet S10 Blazer, was northbound in lane one going straight with no traffic controls. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Isuzu Trooper, was stopped at the stop sign in eastbound lane one. V2 entered the intersection and the front struck the left side of V1. V1 rotated counterclockwise and moved to the northeast. The right side of V1 struck a utility pole off the northeast corner of the intersection. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-two-year-old male, was traveling from his home to work. He was well rested, in fair health and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver has arthritis and a nerve damage condition and takes the medications Tramadol, Neurontin, Diazepam, Dilantin and Mylanta. This driver stated that he saw V2 when he was about one-half block from the intersection and assumed that V2 would wait until he passed through the intersection. When he saw V2 entering the intersection, he accelerated and steered to the right in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The driver of V2, an eighty-one-year-old male, was on his way home from his son's house. He was in fairly good health, well rested and comfortable with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver has arthritis and takes Tramadol. This driver stated that he was looking straight ahead when he was at the stop sign. He waited as a vehicle in the westbound direction turned left (south) in the intersection. At that point, he assumed that the intersection was clear for him to proceed.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor in this crash was this driver's assumption that V2 would yield the right-of-way.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see).