Case #2007-119

The crash occurred at the intersection of two roadways. The north/south roadway was a two-way, two-lane undivided street, controlled by a stop sign. The east/west roadway was a two-way, five-lane street, without a traffic control. These were straight, level, asphalt roads, with posted speeds of 56 kmph (35 mph) in all directions. Conditions were dark with streetlights, on a weekend evening. The roadway was dry, with cloudy skies. Traffic flow was normal. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

V1, a 1991 Dodge Ramcharger with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane one. V2, a 2007 BMW 525I with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane one. Both vehicles were approaching the same intersection. As the two vehicles entered the intersection, the front right corner of V1 made contact with the left side of V2. After impact, V2 traveled in a northwest direction off the roadway. The front of V2 made contact with a chain link fence. V1 and V2 came to final rest three meters apart. Both vehicles were towed due to damage.

The Dodge Ramcharger was driven by a 64-year old male, who was not injured. The driver could not be reached for interview. The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was an unknown driver-related recognition error. No associated factors could be determined for the driver of V1 due to lack of interview data.

The BMW 525I was driven by a 42-year old female, who was not injured. She stated that she and her passengers were on their way from her home to a scuba diving shop. She said that she did not see the other driver until she got to the intersection, at which time the other driver pulled out. Because the motorist did not see the other driver ahead of time, she could not determine whether the other driver had come to a complete stop before entering the intersection. The driver indicated that she applied her brakes, but had no hopes of stopping in time to avoid being hit.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was “other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this motorist. One associated factor for this driver was a recognition-related error. The driver failed to look either side ahead as she approached the intersection. No additional associated factors were assigned to this driver.