The crash occurred in the intersection of two one-way roadways. The southbound roadway had a downhill grade measurement of 3 percent and had two lanes. The eastbound roadway was straight and level, and was one lane. The eastbound roadway was controlled by a stop sign while the southbound roadway had no traffic control device. The speed limit was 48kmph (30mph) on both roadways, and it was during the morning hours of a weekday. It was daylight and clear with no adverse conditions, and the traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 1996 Dodge Ram cargo van with two occupants, was traveling southbound in lane two. V2, a 2006 Ford Focus four door with two occupants, was traveling eastbound in lane one. At the intersection, the front of V1 contacted the left front side of V2. Then the front of V1 contacted a light pole located on the southeast corner of the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Dodge van, was driven by a 41 year-old male who reported no injuries. A 45 year-old female occupant reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. The driver stated to the police that the driver of V2 did not stop at the stop sign before entering the intersection. The driver declined to participate in the survey.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V1 was "other motor vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to the driver. Possible associated factors were unknown because no interview was obtained.

V2, the Ford Focus, was driven by a 34 year-old male who reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. A 30 year-old male occupant also reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. The driver stated that he was traveling from a job site in another part of the city and going home. The driver advised that he stopped at the stop sign, and a non-contact vehicle traveling southbound in lane one stopped and waved him on.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as inadequate surveillance, a driver related factor. An associated factor coded to the driver was his focusing on an extraneous vehicle and a sightline restriction caused by the non-contact vehicle.