This two-vehicle crash occurred just before noon during daylight hours, along a roadway, which is a main neighborhood thoroughfare. The westbound road is bituminous, 2-lane, non-divided and two-way with a speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The road is in a school zone, with a school speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph) and sign posted "between the hours of 8:00 am-9:00 am, and 3:00 pm-4:00 pm". The roads were dry, and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1) a 1991 Dodge Caravan mini van driven by a nineteen (19) year old male was traveling west in lane one. Vehicle two (V2) a 1993 Mercury Tracer sedan driven by a forty one (41) year old female with one passenger was traveling west in lane one. As V2 slowed for the upcoming school zone, V2 was struck in the rear by V1. After impact, V2 departed the roadway to the right and regained control as it came to final rest facing west next to the north curb. V1 after impact came to final rest in the travel lane. V2 was towed from the scene, V1 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: following too closely to respond to unexpected actions. The driver of V1 had been following V2 for about 6 blocks per the driver. He claimed no distractions and said he was looking straight ahead before the crash. He traveled at a constant velocity and was following V2 at a distance of about 3 meters (10 feet). He was on his commute from his brother's house to work and had to be at work 15 minutes before the crash occurred, so he was running late even though he said he was not in a hurry. He was in good health and not fatigued.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. The driver of V2 was having a conversation with the passenger, her sister, as she was driving. The driver has financial concerns because she cannot afford her medications for her medical conditions of: thyroidism, bipolar disorder and diabetes. She never observed V1 prior to impact and had slowed down for the school zone, which she thought was in effect, but wasn't..