This two-vehicle crash occurred in the late morning hours on a weekday in the middle of a four-way intersection. The northbound roadway upon which vehicle one (V1) was traveling consisted of two lanes, both in the same direction (one way traffic). The bituminous roadway was straight and dry, with an uphill grade. There were no traffic control devices present for vehicles traveling on this roadway. The east/west roadway upon which vehicle two (V2) was traveling consisted of two lanes, one in each direction. The bituminous roadway was dry, straight, and level. There was a stop sign present for vehicles traveling in both directions on this roadway. The posted speed limit for both vehicles was 40 kmph (25 mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash and traffic flow was normal.

Vehicle one, a 1993 Mercury Topaz, was heading north on the roadway in lane one, intending to continue straight. Vehicle two, a 1989 Honda Accord, was heading west on the roadway intending to make a right at the intersection. As both vehicles entered the intersection, the front right side of V1 contacted the left front of V2. The impact caused V1 to rotate counter clockwise approximately 10 degrees before coming to final rest in the intersection. Vehicle two, upon impact rotated clockwise approximately 45 degrees before coming to final rest in the intersection. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 27 year-old male, was not injured as a result of the crash, and did not require any medical treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. The driver of this vehicle could not be reached for comment. It should be noted, however, that at the time of the crash the driver was operating the vehicle without a valid driver's license.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was: “other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into same direction”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V2, a female whose age is unknown, suffered possible injuries as a result of the crash, and was taken to a medical facility for treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. Unfortunately, an interview could not be obtained from the driver of this vehicle.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was: “this vehicle traveling, turning right at intersection”. The Critical Reason was coded “unknown critical reason”. One associated factor coded to the driver of this vehicle was the fact that it was her first time (or close to first time) driving this vehicle.

A witness interview was obtained for this crash. Her recollection revealed that V1 was heading straight on the roadway doing the appropriate speed limit. She claimed that V2 was stopped at the stop sign and attempted to make a right at the intersection. She stated that although she observed V2 stopped at the stop sign, she was uncertain of the duration. She also stated that she was certain that V2 was not talking on the phone when the crash occurred because the driver asked to borrow her phone to notify the police. She further relayed that she was riding the bus with the driver of V2 earlier that day. During a conversation, the driver told the witness that she was going to pick up her new car. It was a coincidence that the witness observed the crash with the same individual shortly after this conversation took place.