This three vehicle crash occurred mid-afternoon on a clear day with no adverse weather conditions present, The trafficway was a four lane divided roadway, with two lanes in each direction. The road surface was dry asphalt with a -3% grade and posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Chevrolet Cavalier 4 door sedan driven by a twenty eight (28) year-old female, was traveling north in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Ford E350 van driven by a thirty one (31) year-old male, was also traveling north in lane one. Vehicle three (V3) was a 2004 Kia Rio 4 door sedan driven by a forty one (41) year-old female who was traveling north in lane one making a right turn. As V2 and V3 slowed in the traffic lane, V1 attempted to change lanes to the left, but the front of V1 struck the rear of V2 causing the front of V2 to strike the rear of V3. V1 came to final rest in lane two facing north, V2 came to final rest off the edge of the road just past the northeast corner. V3 came to final rest facing northeast in the intersection. V1,V2 were towed from the scene V3 was driven. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the critical event was attributed to V1 as a driver related factor: too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others. This driver was not conversing and looking straight ahead with an unobstructed view of V2. The driver dais he did not see V2 until 1 or 2 seconds before impact. The driver was on an errand going to a bank from work. The driver claimed not to be in a hurry and had no concerns. He was in good health, was not fatigued and drives the route daily.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. Medication taken by the driver of V2 was an unspecified Antibiotic.

V3 was not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. Medications taken by the driver of V3 were: Paxil, Miralex, Tylenol, and Vitamins.