The crash occurred on a two-way five-lane T-intersection. There were three lanes running northbound with lane three being a left turn only lane. There were two lanes running southbound. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekday morning. The street was straight and level. The posted speed was 56 KPH (30 MPH).

V1 was a 1990 Toyota Corolla that was reported stolen a few days prior. The driver and his passenger were 2 males in there thirties. The 2 men had just robbed a liquor store and were being chased by the police. V1 was driving northbound in the southbound lanes of traffic when the driver tried to cut back over into the northbound lanes and lost control hit the curb, went up on the sidewalk, and hit the seawall climbing over it and landing on the left side of the vehicle. The 2 men were arrested on the spot for robbery and fleeing from the police. The driver was checked by EMS on-scene for cuts and bruises. The vehicle was towed due to damages. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1 declined an interview but the police on-scene that was involved in the pursuit told of the events that led to the crash. The driver and his passenger had just robbed a liquor store and stole two bottles of grey goose. The owner of the liquor store then chased the robbers and fired shots at the fleeing vehicle. The police were then called in and were chasing V1 for about 5 miles when the driver lost control and rolled his vehicle over. The police stated that V1 was traveling southbound in lane four of the northbound lanes. Both men in the vehicle were arrested for driving a stolen vehicle and robbery.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was "this vehicle traveling off the right side of the roadway". The Critical Reason was "aggressive driving", as the driver was being chased by the police and was weaving through lanes of traffic and driving down the wrong travel lanes. The driver was cited for the crash, robbery, and eluding police, as well as having a 5x suspended license, and expired license. There were no associative factors as the driver declined an interview.