The crash occurred on a secondary arterial road that ran east/west, two-way, was straight and level and had five lanes that were not physically divided. The center lane (3) was also a left turn only lane. The road was in a business district. Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight and dry with a speed limit of 56kph/35mph. The crash occurred in the early afternoon on a weekday.

V1 was a 1995 Toyota Camry that was traveling eastbound in lane 1 at a high rate of speed when it changed to lane 2, then began braking while skidding (19.6m) longitudinally and finally V1's front struck the back end of V2, a 1998 Chevrolet Astro cargo van that had just stopped in lane 2 eastbound in order to let the vehicle in front of it to turn left. Both vehicles came to rest at impact. V1 was towed from the scene, and V2 was driven away. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a twenty-two-year-old-belted-female whose airbags did deploy but was uninjured in the crash. D1 was hysterical on scene but did tell the researcher that she was “doing 50+” (mph) when she slammed on her brakes. She was running late for her 1st day back to work after being out for 2 months when the crash occurred.

The critical precrash event for V1 was other vehicle in lane traveling same direction, stopped. The critical reason was inadequate surveillance, failed to look far enough ahead. D1 had other emotional factors and her right front tire was slightly larger than the left front but she was more in a hurry, inattentive, and traveling too fast (aggressively) than anything.

V2 was driven by a fifty-two-year-old-belted-male who was uninjured in the crash. He was on his way from one job to another at the time of the crash. He told the researcher that he had been slowing for a vehicle turning left from in front of him and just stopped when he noted V1 in his rearview mirror as it changed lanes, and then skidded into him.

The critical precrash event for V2 was other vehicle in lane traveling same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. No contributing factors were coded to this vehicle.