Case Summary 2007-43-103

This two-vehicle crash occurred at a four-legged intersection. There were no traffic control devices for north/south traffic; stop signs controlled east/west traffic. Southbound approach is straight with a -3.3% downhill grade with metal guardrails on both sides of the roadway. Northbound approach is straight and level. Setting was evening hours on a weekday. Conditions were daylight, dry and clear with light traffic conditions. Police Reported Travel Speed is 8 kmph for V1 and 8 kmph for V2.

V1 was a 1994 Chevrolet Camaro, two-door, subcompact with one occupant traveling southbound in lane one. V2 was a 1993 Ford Explorer, four-door, compact utility with one occupant traveling northbound in lane one. V1 and V2 arrived at the intersection at the same time. V1 decelerated in its travel lane and made a left turn across V2's path of travel. The front of V1 struck the front of V2 in the intersection (event 1). V1 rotated counterclockwise and traveled 8.5 meters (28 feet) after impact coming to rest partially in the north/south lanes facing northeast. V2 traveled 15 meters (49 feet) after impact departed the road to the right and came to rest along the level grass roadside facing northeast.

*Note: During impact, the large speaker box in the rear of V1 shifted and punctured the rear backlight, causing a hole to be present.

The driver of V1 was a 21 year-old male who was injured and transported by EMS to the hospital for treatment. He was a pizza delivery driver who was on his way to make his first of several deliveries. His company has a 30-minute guarantee for delivery or the pizza is free, so he was in a hurry to deliver the pizza on time. He was driving straight on a roadway he drives several times monthly. He reported a vehicle being in front of him driving the same direction, but couldn't recall his following distance. As he approached the intersection where he needed to turn left, he put his left turn signal on and slowed down, but didn't stop. He looked at on-coming traffic, but saw no vehicles coming, so he turned. All of a sudden, V2 struck the front-end of his vehicle in the intersection. He reported his vehicle spinning around and his airbags deploying before coming to final rest. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "Inadequate surveillance (looked but did not see)-a driver error. This driver admitted to looking at on-coming traffic, but couldn't see anyone coming, so he proceeded with his left turn. This driver was in a hurry due to a tight work related delivery schedule, an emotional factor. He also said he was listening to the radio, a non-driving activity. The vehicle traveling in front of V1 may have caused a sightline restriction for this driver. His vehicle contained both over and under inflated tires, coded as a tire/wheel deficiency.

The driver of V2 was a 40 year-old male who was transported from the scene with minor injuries. He is a construction worker who works Monday through Friday, 55 hours per week. On this day, he was driving from his home, on his way to the "city" to meet his wife. This was a leisurely trip on a roadway that he drives daily. He was driving straight ahead in lane one at 72 mph (45 mph). Because this roadway is straight, he reported being able to see a "long-way" down the road. As he approached the intersection, he noticed V2 in the opposing lane wanting to turn left. V2 then unexpectedly turned left in front of him. It happened so quickly that there was no time to apply the brakes or steer right to avoid the collision. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction-over the left lane line." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. This driver did falsely assume the driver of V1 would yield the right of way to him. He saw V1 coming toward him and couldn't understand how V1 didn't see him. His vehicle had over-inflated rear tires and an under-inflated front tire, coded as tire/wheel deficiency. There were no other known associated factors for this driver.