The crash occurred in the intersection of a 4-lane undivided north/south roadway and a divided east/west roadway. There were two lanes southbound and two lanes northbound. The southbound lanes were level but curved slightly to the left. The northbound lanes were level and straight. The posted speed limit was 48 kmph (30 mph). It was the early morning on a weekday during rush hour. Traffic flow was a little heavy.

V1, a 2004 Honda Pilot utility vehicle with 3 occupants, was traveling north in the second lane of travel. V2, a 2000 Cadillac Deville 4-door sedan, was traveling south in lane 2, attempting to turn left at the intersection. There was a non-contact van stopped in the second northbound lane that was waiting to turn left. The driver of V1 switched lanes to the right in order to pass the van and continue straight through the intersection. As V2 turned, V1 entered the intersection as well. V1 swerved to the right to try and avoid hitting V2 but was unsuccessful. V1 struck V2 in the right front, spinning it about 20 degrees counterclockwise. V2 came to a rest near the curb in the northeast corner of the intersection. V1 pulled off and parked beside V2. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the 2004 Honda Pilot, was driven by a 35-year old female who was transported from the scene along with her husband who was riding in the front passenger seat. Her infant child was not injured and was not transported. She advised that she was traveling in lane 1 and going at about 30-35 mph when she entered the intersection. She stated that there was a van that was a bit ahead of her in lane two, and because of that van, V2 might have not seen her. She said when she entered the intersection, V2 turned in front of her. She said she stepped on the brakes but it was already too late and that she swerved to the right to avoid hitting V2 but was unsuccessful. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over right lane. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to this driver include conversation with the passenger and aggressive driving. The driver of V2 and a witness both stated that V2 approached at a high rate of speed from lane two and quickly switched lanes to lane 1.

V2, the 2000 Cadillac Deville, was driven by a 27-year old female who was transported due to possible injuries. She stated that she slowed at the intersection and looked to see if she could turn. She saw V1 approaching in the second northbound lane and assumed it would stay in that lane. She then stated that V1 appeared out of nowhere in lane 1 at a high rate of speed and struck her, spinning her around. She said that the witness came over to her to see if she was OK and to tell her that V1 almost hit her and that she saw the driver come from nowhere and speed into the intersection. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a false assumption, because the driver assumed that V1 would stay in the second lane of travel behind the stopped van. No additional associated factors were coded to this driver.