The crash occurred to the right of the northbound lane of a two-lane undivided roadway. There were designated parking spaces along the northbound curb. This was a straight, level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). It was late in the evening on a weekend night and the roadway was illuminated by streetlamps. The weather was a misty rain and the roadway was wet. The crash occurred in a retail district with stores on both sides of the street.

V1, a 2007 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 with the driver as the sole occupant, was traveling northbound. V1 drifted over the right edge of the travel lane and struck a vehicle that was parked in a parking space along the curb (V2, a 2006 Kia Sedona minivan). V2 was pushed over the curb and struck a light pole. The light pole then fell on top of V3, a parked and unoccupied 1995 Hyundai Accent 4-door sedan. The driver of V1 was transported to a medical facility due to injury. Several attempts were made to contact the driver of V1 for an interview but all were unsuccessful. The medical records indicated that the driver reported that he took his eyes off the road for a moment and drifted over the lane line into the parked vehicle. The owner of the Kia Sedona was on-scene and stated that he was inside a retail store when the crash occurred. The owner stated he heard the crash, but did not see it occur. He also stated that he did not hear anything before the crash (e.g., horn blowing, tires screeching, etc.). Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was "This vehicle traveling over the lane line on the right side of travel lane." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as an internal distraction. Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include the medical conditions of diabetes, epilepsy, high blood pressure, and chronic back pain, along with the use of several medications to treat these conditions. The weather (rain) and the wet roadway were also coded as associated factors.