The crash occurred in the northbound lane of a two-lane north/southbound roadway. The roadway was bituminous and level; with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). It was afternoon on a weekday. The roads were dry and the sky was cloudy. Traffic flow was moderate.

V1, a 2007 Mazda 3 with one occupant, was traveling north. V2, a 2000 Toyota Camry with one occupant, and V3, a 2001 Ford E-250 van with one occupant, was stopped in traffic when V1 struck V2 in the rear, pushing it forward into the rear of V3. V1 attempted to avoid the collision by applying his brakes. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, driven by a 24-year-old male who reported no injuries, stated that he was traveling north when he looked down to read his directions. Driver thought he had time to look down, but when he looked up again he was closer to V2 then he expected. Driver attempted to avoid the collision by applying his brakes, but was unsuccessful and struck V2, pushing it forward to strike V3.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "Other Motor Vehicle in Lane-vehicle stopped". The Critical reason for the Critical Event was "Driver Related Factor- internal distraction". The Internal Factor was looking down to read directions. The following associated factors were assigned. Decision errors "Misjudgment of the gap distance". Performance/Experience "Frequency of driving road-First time on road".

V2, driven by a 23-year-old female who reported a Complaint of Pain in the neck and was transport, stated that she was stopped in traffic when the car behind her struck her and pushed her into the Van in front of her. V2 made no avoidance maneuver.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "Other Motor Vehicle in Lane-Traveling in same direction with higher speed". No Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to this vehicle.

V3, driven by a 43-year-old male who reported a Complaint of Pain in the back and was transport, was stopped in traffic when V2 was pushed into him after being struck by V1. V3 made no avoidance maneuver.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "Other-Not involved in first harmful event". No Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to this vehicle.