This two-vehicle crash occurred at a rural four-legged, signal-controlled intersection, with no pedestrian crosswalks. Southbound approach was straight, level with the left turn lane beginning 89 meters (292 feet) prior to the intersection. Northbound approach was straight with a +1.8% uphill profile. The posted speed limit was 88 kph (55 mph) for both directions. Setting was late afternoon hours on a weekend. Conditions were daylight, dry and clear.

Vehicle 1 was a 2001 Chrysler Sebring Convertible, with one occupant traveling southbound in lane two, the left turn lane. V2 was a 1994 Chevrolet Camaro, with one occupant traveling northbound in lane one. V1 turned left at the intersection and struck the left side of V2 with its left, front corner (event 1). In an attempt to avoid the crash, V1 locked up its brakes and steered right, but was unsuccessful. After impact, V2 lost control and departed the right side on the roadway. The grade was -88% and 5.0 meters (16.4 feet) wide. As V2 departed the roadway, the right rear hit a sign post and then the vehicle rolled to the right and came to final rest at the bottom of the drop-off on its top with visible damage to the windshield and hood from the rollover. V1 after impact traveled approximately 30 meters (98.4 feet) and came to rest on the southeast corner of the intersection facing southeast. Police Reported Travel Speed is 16 kmph for V1 and 16 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 was an 18 year-old female who sustained minor injuries in the crash. She is a full-time college student about 75 miles away who was in town visiting friends at a local college. She spent the weekend in her friend's dorm room on campus. As she departed her friend's college to head back home, she became lost and confused. She stopped at a gas station about a mile prior to crashing, to obtain directions. She had never been on this roadway before and just wanted to get home. As she approached the intersection at 40 kph (25 mph) to turn left, she looked and saw nobody coming toward her, so she proceeded to make her turn. As she engaged in her turn, she saw V2 coming and steered right to try and avoid a collision. She was unsuccessful and struck the left side of V2. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front, left corner damage.

The Critical Pre crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "Inadequate surveillance, looked but didn't see"- a driver related error. She admitted to me that she looked ahead before proceeding, but never saw V2 until it was too late. The driver has never been on this roadway before and appeared to be upset about being lost. She reported no health related issues but did report listening to the radio while driving. She also denied any internal or external distractions.

The driver of V2 was a 23 year-old male who was transported from the scene with possible injuries. He works full-time Monday through Friday. On this day, he was making his usual trip as he does once a week to the Laundromat from his residence. He reported his travel speed at 72 kph (45 mph) in lane one. As he approached the intersection he noticed VI in the opposing left turn lane. He claims to have seen the driver of V1 reach down inside her car toward the passenger's side. When she looked back up, she started to unexpectedly turn left into his path. He applied the brakes and steered right to attempt to avoid a collision, but she struck his left side. He believes she never saw him coming. His car then went off the roadway and came to rest on its roof. He was unable to recall the rollover events. He was unsure if his car went end-over-end or rolled longitudinal. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling damage.

The Critical Pre crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over left lane line." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. This driver was not licensed, but continued to drive anyway. He was attentively driving, but made a false assumption by assuming VI would yield the right of way to him.