This three-vehicle crash occurred in a three-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The north/south trafficway is straight and level. North of the intersection, this roadway is undivided with two lanes in each direction and a left turn lane in the southbound direction. South of the intersection, the trafficway is divided by a painted median and consists of two lanes in each direction. The speed limit for this trafficway is 72 kmph (45 mph). The intersecting roadway was on the east side of the north/south trafficway. It was dusk at the time of the crash with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Pontiac Grand Am, was southbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Buick Regal, was northbound in lane two. Vehicle three (V3), a 2003 Ford Explorer, was southbound in lane two behind V1. The driver of V2 attempted to make a U-turn in the intersection. The front of V1 struck the front of V2. Debris from this crash struck the left side of V3. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a sixteen-year-old female, was traveling with a male passenger. This driver was not interviewed. No further information is available for this driver.

The driver of V2, a thirty-four-year-old male, was on his way home from a lodge. He travels this route several times each month and was familiar with his vehicle. This driver stated that he did not see V1 prior to the crash. His medical record indicates a positive result for a blood alcohol test.

The driver of V3, a thirty-four-year-old female, was traveling with three passengers. This driver provided very limited personal information.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's inexperience was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; over the lane line on left side of travel lane." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)."

The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded as "not involved first harmful event." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was "not coded to this vehicle."