This crash occurred in the middle of a four-way urban intersection between two, two-way, five-lane roadways controlled by an on-colors traffic signal, with posted speed limits of 64 kmph (40 mph). Conditions at the time of the predawn weekday crash were dark but lighted, clear and dry.

V1, a 1991 Chevrolet Caprice Classic 4 door sedan driven by a 22 year-old female was westbound on the road in lane two at about 30 mph. The driver stated that the traffic light turned red and her (recently repaired) brakes did not respond. Vehicles were stopped in the lane ahead so V1 steered into lane one and attempted to turn right at the corner. The left side of V1 was struck by the front of V2 in the intersection. V1 rotated clockwise and came to rest facing north in lane two of the southbound lanes. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver was transported from the scene to a local trauma center. The front right 22 year-old fully restrained male passenger denied injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 2000 Ford Econoline 150 cargo delivery van driven by a 30 year-old male en route from his office to his first stop for the day, was stopped facing east preparing to turn left at the intersection. V2 turned left from lane three (the left turn only lane) on the green left turn arrow. The driver stated that he was looking left to check for possible pedestrians crossing the road and never saw V1 prior to the impact. The front of V2 struck the left side of V1. V2 than rotated counterclockwise and came to rest facing southwest in lanes one and two of the southbound lanes. V2 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver was transported from the scene to a local trauma center due to injuries.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction - over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The brake failure was coded as an associated factor.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason was coded as inadequate surveillance. The driver's failure to look far enough ahead was coded as an associated factor.