This crash occurred in an intersection of a public roadway and a private driveway. The north/south roadway was a three-lane undivided, dry, level asphalt roadway with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). To the east and the west there were private asphalt driveways with two lanes each. The crash occurred during daylight hours in the early afternoon, and there were no adverse conditions present at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1999 Mazda B-4000 pickup truck, was stopped facing westbound in the private driveway waiting to cross the public roadway and enter another driveway. V2, a 1998 Ford Windstar minivan, was traveling southbound in the right curb lane. V1 started to cross over the three-lane roadway when its front right struck the left front of V2. After impact, V2 rotated in a clockwise direction while V1 rotated in a counterclockwise direction. Both vehicles came to final rest facing southwest on the southwest corner of the intersection. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene, and the driver of V2 was treated on the scene for minor injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 23 year-old male, stated that there was a tractor-trailer to his left that had stopped facing north that motioned for him to cross in front of him. He also stated that there was also a tractor-trailer that was stopped to his right. He then stated that he started across the roadway, but did not look to his right to see if it was clear. He then stated that he never saw V2 until he came into contact with it.

The Critical Pre-crash Event coded for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash event was coded as "inadequate surveillance, failed to look." Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 included crossing with obstructed view and a sightline restriction caused by the tractor-trailer to the right.

The driver of V2, a 56 year-old female, stated that she was on her way to pick up her grandchildren when another vehicle hit her on the left side. She also stated that she never saw V1 until it contacted her.

The Critical Pre-crash Event coded for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment from driveway, across path." V2 was not assigned a Critical Reason. The only associated factor coded to V2 was a sightline restriction caused by the tractor-trailer stopped in the northbound lane.