This crash occurred on a clear, hot afternoon with no adverse weather conditions present, on a two-lane undivided roadway, crossing a bridge. The roadway was concrete, level and had no controls. The speed limit was the same for both vehicles 97 kmph (60 mph). At the time of the crash the south side bridge had been under construction for over a year and traffic had been funneled into two lanes on the north bridge, from a 4-lane divided roadway to a 2-lane roadway. This roadway was clearly marked upon approach as a 2-lane, two-way roadway. Vehicle one (V1) was traveling west in the first lane. Vehicle two (V2) was traveling east in the first lane and the witness was behind V2. V1 crossed the centerline and struck V2 head-on. V1 and V2 left no pre-impact skid marks. Both vehicles collided and V2 was pushed rearward, to end up facing east in eastbound lane. V1 was facing west in the eastbound lane at final rest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The driver of V2 was fatal on the scene and the passenger died later that day. The driver of V1 expired a few days later in the hospital.

Vehicle one (V1) was a 2000 Ford Taurus 4-door sedan, driven by a 20 year-old female, who wore glasses for astigmatism, and was taking birth control and antibiotics and aspirin as her only medication. It was found out after talking to the driver's mother there were various circumstances that may have contributed to this crash for this driver. The driver told her mother that she only had 1 hour of sleep in the last 2 days due to the fact that her babysitter was unavailable to take care of her 2 year-old child during the day while the driver slept. So since 2 days before the crash the driver was getting only bits of sleep here and there indicating fatigue was a factor for this driver. The driver's brother took care of the child on the day of the crash. The driver went to work at 10:00 pm (2200 hours) the previous night and got off work at 10:00 am in the morning. Sometime during the work shift the driver got sick at work and the supervisor would not let the driver go home. After the driver left work at 10:00 am she contacted her mother and relayed the story to her and told her she was going to pick up a few things before heading home. At which time the driver received a call on her cell phone from her ex-boyfriend. This call upset the driver enough to have her recall her mother and relay the problem. To add to the driver's stress she had just recently moved to her new house and was still in the process of unpacking. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

At the time of the collision an open cell phone was found in the driver seat of V1. Information about the driver's cell phone use was obtained from cell phone records by the surrogate interviewee, the mother of the driver of V1. The last phone call received on the phone was 55 minutes before the crash. However the last phone call made was listed at one hour after the crash. It appears that either the driver was dialing the phone when the crash happened and did not complete the call until some unknown person hit the send button, or some unknown person hit the redial button as the vehicle sat at the crash scene. Medical personal and law enforcement personnel did not notice the cell phone until the NMVCCS researcher found it. The critical pre-crash event for V1 is: this vehicle traveling/ over the left lane line on left side of the travel lane. The critical reason was assigned to the driver of V1 as a driver related, unknown type of driver error due to the possible unknown various actions that might have taken place inside the vehicle before the crash.

V2 was a 2000 Buick Park Ave 4-door sedan driven by a 62 year-old male, who was with his 62-year-old wife. The driver and passenger were traveling east heading into town to do some shopping before getting some dinner. It is unknown if the driver was taking any medication. The driver was wearing glasses at the time that were both corrected for near and far sightedness. The critical pre-crash event was the encroachment of the other vehicle, from opposite direction- over the left lane. No critical reason was assigned to this vehicle.