The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. The east/west roadway was a two-way, seven-lane street, divided by a curbed median. The north/south roadway was a two-way, three-lane undivided street. Both roadways were controlled by a traffic light. These were straight, level, asphalt roads, with an east/west posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph), and a north/south posted speed of 40 kmph (25 mph). Conditions were daylight on a weekday morning with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 2002 Ford Mustang with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane two. V2, a 2007 Pontiac G6 with two occupants, was traveling northbound in lane two (left turn lane). Both vehicles were approaching the same intersection. As the vehicles entered the intersection, the front of V1 made contact with the left side of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

The Ford Mustang was driven by a 28-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he was on his way from home to help a friend move equipment out of his friend's business. He said that as he approached the intersection, it was not registering in his mind that the light was red. The driver tried to think very carefully about why he did not notice the status of the traffic light, but could not come up with a definite explanation. He indicated that he did finally notice his light was red just as he was entering the intersection, but by then he also noticed that there was a vehicle right in front of him. He reacted by hitting the brakes, but by then the motorist did not have enough stopping distance. The driver added that he was wearing sunglasses at the time, which he said he never does. He stated that although the sunglasses might have contributed in some way to his lack of recognition, he didn't want to infer that the sunglasses were in any way the cause of the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "Other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle, although several associated factors were coded to the driver. First of all, the driver of V1 was inattentive. There was no specific inattention factor. The driver simply appeared to be daydreaming as he neared the intersection. Another associated factor was inadequate surveillance. The driver failed to look to either side ahead for cross traffic. Another associated factor was an illegal maneuver, for failing to stop for a traffic control device.

The Pontiac G6 was driven by a 58-year old male who was not injured. He stated that he and his wife were in the area on vacation. They had just left the parking lot of their hotel, less than a block away from the intersection. The driver's light was green, so he continued to accelerate into the intersection in order to make his left turn. He indicated that he got hit right in the middle of the intersection. The driver said he never saw the other vehicle prior to impact.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "This vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as inadequate surveillance, because the driver failed to look to either side ahead for cross traffic. No additional associated factors were coded to this driver.