This two-vehicle crash occurred in an nine-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The east/west roadway is level and straight. The roadway west of the intersection is undivided and consists of one lane in the westbound direction and two lanes in the eastbound direction. The roadway east of the intersection is divided and consists of three lanes in each direction. The speed limit on this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Oldsmobile Aurora, was eastbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Chevrolet Cavalier, was westbound in lane two. V2 turned left in the intersection and the front struck the left side of V1. V1 moved to the southeast and the back right wheel struck the curb and the right side struck a utility pole. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a fifty-seven-year-old male, was traveling from his home to an appointment. He was well rested and familiar with his vehicle and the roadway. This driver has COPD and heart and liver conditions. He takes the medications Ibuprofen, Prevacid, Budeprion, Nadolol, Albuterol, Serevent, Atrovent, aspirin and vitamins. This driver stated that just before the crash, he was trying to light a cigarette.

The driver of V2, a twenty-one-year-old male, was on his way from his mother's house to the DMV to license his vehicle. He was healthy and familiar with his vehicle. This was his first time on this roadway. This driver is in the Navy and had driven twenty hours to visit his family before his upcoming deployment to Iraq. When he arrived at his mother's house, he slept for twenty hours and awoke feeling rested earlier on the day of the crash. This driver stated that he was using a GPS unit built into his cell phone (that was mounted on the upper center instrument panel) at the time of the crash. He also stated that he was not comfortable with the many roadways intersecting at this location.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was not coded to this vehicle. This driver's focus on lighting a cigarette and his assumption that V2 would yield the right-of-way were associated factors in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event for V2 was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction, for looking at his cell phone that was being used as a GPS device. This driver's work-related stress (impending deployment to Iraq) and his uneasiness with the multi-leg intersection were associated factors in this crash.