The crash occurred on an east/west primary arterial that was not physically divided with five lanes (two in each direction with the center lane being a two-way left turn lane). Both shoulders were paved. The road was straight and level with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph/45 mph. The road was intersected on its south side by a private drive giving access to a fuel station/convenience store. Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight and dry in the mid morning hours on a weekday around the end of the local rush hour. Traffic was light.

V1 was a 1997 Chrysler Town and Country minivan that was turning left/west from the private drive when it was struck on its left front side by the front of V2. V2 was a 2000 Chevrolet Cavalier coupe traveling east on the arterial in the right lane (1). Evidence at the scene indicated the driver for V2 was able to steer left but any other avoidance maneuvers are not known. Police on scene and the wife of driver two indicated that there was a tractor-trailer parked on the right/south shoulder in front of the convenience store at the time of the crash effectively blocking the line of sight between eastbound travel lanes and the driveway. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a thirty-three-year-old pregnant female who was restrained at the time of the crash. Her airbags did deploy and she was transported to a local hospital due to injury. This driver was unable to be contacted following the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection (from driveway). The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was a driver related factor, turned with obstructed view. A sightline restriction caused by the parked tractor-trailer was coded as an associated factor.

V2 was driven by a fifty-year-old belted male who was transported due to injury to a local hospital. His airbags also deployed.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from driveway turning into the opposite direction. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Some physical factors present for this driver include hepatitis C, diabetes, and a heart attack two months previous. He was also taking medications for these conditions but his wife (surrogate interviewee) was very vague as to what they were called. The sightline restriction was coded for this vehicle as well.