This two-vehicle crash occurred in a three-legged intersection. The north/south roadway is undivided, straight and consists of one lane in each direction. Both approaches have a downhill grade. The speed limit for this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). The intersecting roadway is on the east side of the north/south roadway. This roadway is undivided, straight and consists of one lane in each direction. The westbound lane has an uphill grade and is controlled by a stop sign. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Oldsmobile Intrigue, was stopped westbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Chevrolet K1500 pickup, was northbound in lane one. V1 entered the intersection, turning left, and the front struck the front of V2. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a seventy-nine-year-old female, had just left a hospital appointment and was on her way to visit the cemetery. She was in fair health, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route monthly. This driver has diabetes and high blood pressure and takes the medications Glucotrol, Benicar and Caduet (combination of Norvasc and Lipitor). This driver stated that she looked left and right before entering the intersection and did not see V2 so she followed a large truck turning left.

The driver of V2, a fifty-six-year-old male, was on his way from a bank to a store. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route weekly. This driver stated that he was talking on a cell phone but saw V1 enter the intersection following a large truck. He steered left and applied the brakes (full ABS application) in an attempt to avoid the crash. The police report indicated that this driver was speeding.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's speed and the distraction of talking on the phone were associated factors in this crash.