This three-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. Both trafficways are straight and divided by a curbed median and were wet at the time of the crash. The northbound approach roadway has an uphill grade and consists of two through lanes, two left turn lanes and a right turn lane. The westbound approach roadway is level and consists of two through lanes, two left turn lanes and a right turn lane. The speed limit for these roadways is 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions. Traffic was congested at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Cadillac Seville, was northbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Saturn SC1, was stopped westbound in lane five. Vehicle three (V3), a 2000 Ford Explorer, was stopped westbound in lane four. V1 entered the intersection, going straight. V2 and V3 entered the intersection turning left. The front of V1 struck the front of V2 in a corner to corner impact configuration. V1 continued in a northwestern direction and the right side was struck by the front of V3. V1 and V3 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a seventy-eight-year-old female, was traveling from a church to a store. She was in good health, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver takes Triamterene, Estradiol, Lisinopril, Metroprolol and Levothyroxine (Levothroid). She stated that she never saw the other vehicles.

The driver of V2, a twenty-five-year-old female, was traveling with a two-year-old male passenger, from a friend's house to her home. She was healthy and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. This driver travels this route daily. She had been on vacation and had driven 1,287 kilometers (800 miles) in the twenty hours prior to the crash but had slept (intermittently) for eight hours during that time. This driver stated that she saw V1 just before the crash and applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The driver of V3, a twenty-five-year-old female, was on a lunch break from work. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route weekly. This driver stated that she noticed that the driver of V2 slammed on the brakes but did not see V1 prior to the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see). She looked but never saw V2, and also failed to recognize the traffic light was red.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle. This driver failed to look to her left to recognize the presence of V1.

V3 was not involved first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle. V2 blocked the driver of V3's view of V1 approaching the intersection.