This two-vehicle crash occurred on a five-lane, undivided, level roadway approaching a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The westbound lanes have a five percent downhill grade and consist of three through lanes. The speed limit for this roadway is 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Toyota Echo, was westbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Chevrolet Impala, was stopped at the intersection in westbound lane two. The front of V1 struck the back of V2. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-three-year-old female, was traveling with her eight-year-old daughter and six-year-old son. They had left a family gathering and were on their way to a store. This driver was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle and passengers. She travels this route monthly. This driver stated that she was showing her children the school she had attended and her focus was on that building. When she returned her attention to the roadway, she noticed V2 stopped and applied the brakes (skidding longitudinally) in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The driver of V2, a thirty-one-year-old female, was on her way to a store from her home. She was well rested, healthy and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she was talking on her cell phone at the time of the crash and did not see V1 prior to the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; other vehicle stopped." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; external distraction." This vehicle's speed was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."