The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. The east/west roadway was two-way with two lanes of travel in each direction. The northbound roadway was one way with one lane of travel. Both roadways were straight, level, and bituminous with a speed limit of 48kmph (30mph). It was the morning hours of a weekday, and it was clear with no adverse conditions.

V1, a 2000 Cadillac Escalade sport utility vehicle with two occupants, was traveling northbound in lane one. V2, a 1995 Ford Explorer sport utility vehicle with one occupant was traveling westbound in lane one. V3, a 1989 Chevrolet G-Series Van and V4, a 1999 Toyota Corolla sedan, were legally parked and unoccupied, in the parking lane. At the intersection, the front of V1 impacted the left front side of V2. The front of V1 then impacted the back of V3, pushing the front of V3 into the rear of V4. V1 came to final rest on the sidewalk of the northwest corner. After impact, V2 rotated in a clockwise direction and came to final rest approximately five meters from the point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Cadillac Escalade, was driven by a 44 year-old male who reported no injuries. The 2 year-old female occupant in a child safety restraint also reported no injuries. He advised that he was traveling from home and dropping off his daughter to the babysitter before going to work. He stated that he was traveling approximately 56-64kmph (35-40mph) through the intersection with a green light, when the driver of V2 ran the red light. The driver was issued a citation for driving with no proof of insurance.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V1 was "Other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path." The Critical Reason for the Critical event was not coded to this driver. An associated factor coded to the driver was traveling too fast for conditions, did not realize that caution was required. No other associated factors were coded to this vehicle.

V2, the Ford Explorer, was driven by a 39 year-old male who reported no injuries. He advised that he was traveling from home to work, and that he was going through the intersection with a green light and the driver of V1 disregarded the traffic control device. He advised that he was on his way to work when the crash occurred, and noted that he had difficulty determining the sequence of the traffic device patterns.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V2 was "This vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as a driver related factor, type of driver error unknown. The associated factors coded to the driver were that he experienced general work related stress, and he had concerns about family issues. He was also in a hurry to get to work and was traveling too fast for conditions. An illegal maneuver was also coded.