The crash occurred in the southbound lane of a six-lane highway divided by a grass median and guardrail. There were three southbound and three northbound lanes. It was a weekday during the early evening rush hour. The skies were cloudy on this well-traveled, straight, level and dry road. A contributing factor to the crash was a red light at the intersection 625 meters (2050 ft.) south of the crash site. The posted speed was 72 kmph (45 mph).

V1, a 2003 Hyundai Elantra four-door sedan was driven by a 54 year-old female traveling with two female passengers. She stated that she had spent a leisurely lunch with her friends and had been driving home when the crash occurred. She had been traveling at a rate of 56 kmph (35 mph), south, in lane one. V2 had been ahead of her vehicle for a few miles and she had maintained a distance from V2 of approximately ten to twenty feet. The driver of V2 suddenly slammed on his brakes unexpectedly. She was attempting to avoid V2 by steering right and braking when the front of V1 crashed into the rear of V2. The air bags did not deploy and the driver and passengers were not injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 1995 Mercury Villager mini-van was driven by a 38 year-old male. He stated he was traveling south in lane one at a rate of 72 kmph (45 mph) and had just left work ten minutes prior to the crash. Traffic was heavy at the time when the vehicles ahead of him suddenly stopped for the red light at the intersection some distance ahead. He braked, narrowly avoiding a collision with the vehicle ahead of him when V1 rear-ended his vehicle. The driver was not injured.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane, stopped." The Critical Reason for the Pre-Crash Event was "inattention." Associated factors for the driver include medications for hypertension and water retention and following too closely. Police report that the driver failed to give full time and attention.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors for the driver include driving with a suspended license, which police cited him for.