This three-vehicle crash occurred along a straight, level stretch of bituminous suburban intersection. A grass median containing a positive wire guardrail divides this east/west roadway. There are adequate breakdown lanes on both sides of this interstate as well as rumble strips present. There are four westbound lanes present. The speed limit is 104 kph (65 mph). Setting was morning hours on a weekday. Conditions were daylight, clear and dry with heavy morning rush hour congestion.

V1 is a 2004 Ford F-350 four-door with one occupant traveling westbound in lane four. V2 is a 1999 Chevrolet Lumina, four-door with one occupant traveling westbound directly in front of V1. V3 is a 2006 Honda Accord, four-door with one occupant traveling westbound in lane three, to the right and behind V1 and V2. A marked police vehicle was in lane four, traveling below the posted speed limit. In an attempt to not contact the vehicle in front of it, V2 applied its brakes heavily and veered left, onto the paved shoulder, successfully avoiding a collision with the vehicle in front of it. V1, who was behind V2 did not see V2 slow down and contacted its back, right plane with its front, left plane (Event 1). This impact caused V2 to yaw clockwise out of control on the paved shoulder, and re-enter the roadway to the right. The right side of V2 then struck the left side of V1 in lane four (Event 2). That impact caused the right side of V2 to then side-slap the left side of V1 again, but this time in lane three (Event 3). V1 continued on a path toward the right shoulder, subsequently contacting the left side of V3 with its right side (Event 4) in travel lane one. V1 pushed V3 from lane one to the right shoulder. After Event 3, V2 straightened out and began to yaw counterclockwise and head toward the left shoulder and grass median. V2 departed the road to the left, entered the negatively sloped grass median and contacted the wire median, first with its left side (Event 5), then with its front plane (Event 6). V2 then crossed the wire median and entered onto the eastbound grass median. V2 then contacted the wire median again with its front-end (Event 7) and traveled along the wire median to its final rest position facing west. V1 and V3 came to final rest facing west on the right shoulder. Police Reported Travel Speed is 129 kmph for V1 and 129 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 36 year-old male who was not injured in this crash. He had been making his hour-long daily commute to work on a road he drives daily. He was in the far left lane of the interstate traveling westbound at 120 kph (75 mph). He had to exit off the interstate to the right a few miles ahead, so he knew if he didn't get in the right lane early enough nobody would let him in. He took his eyes off the road ahead and looked in his right side mirror to see if any cars were in the lane to his right. When he looked up again, the car in front of him had suddenly braked and partially entered the left shoulder. He was unable to slow down and struck the right rear of V2 with his front left plane. He changed lanes right to get out of V2's way because V2 was fishtailing out of control. He saw V2 steering right and struck his left side two more times as he was changing lanes to the right. When V2 struck his left side, it pushed him into V3, who was to the right of him. He didn't notice V3 was there because he was focused on V2's actions. His vehicle was drivable and driven from the scene with non-disabling damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 is "Other Motor Vehicle in Lane, Traveling the Same Direction, while Decelerating." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "Following Too Close to Respond to Unexpected Actions" a driver error. This driver failed to leave enough gap distance to slow down when he realized there was a danger ahead of him. The interstate contained heavy, fast moving traffic at the time of the crash. He was keeping up with the traffic flow, therefore likely following V2 too closely, coded as a decision error. This driver was driving too fast for the heavy traffic conditions, another decision error. The morning rush hour congestion, as well as the police car traveling under the posted speed limit were both coded as traffic flow interruption errors.

The driver of V2 is a 33 year-old male who was not injured in this crash. He was running late for work this morning and was in a hurry to get there. He was traveling in the far left lane at 120 kph (75 mph), when all of a sudden traffic in front of him unexpectedly slowed down significantly. He had to aggressively apply his brakes and steer left onto the shoulder just to be safe from hitting the car in front of him. He checked his rearview mirror and saw V1 was coming up on him at their original travel speed. When V1 struck his car he says it pushed him out of control. He steered right in an attempt to regain control, but struck the left side of an unknown vehicle when he re-entered the roadway. He then believes he steered left, entering the grass median. He drove along the median cable wire before coming to final rest. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front and rear-end damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 is "Other Motor Vehicle in Lane, Traveling the Same Direction at a Higher Steady Speed." The Critical Reason was not coded to this driver. This driver was traveling too fast for conditions due to not realizing caution was needed. This driver was also late for work and in a hurry to get there, an emotional factor. The rush hour congestion and marked police vehicle in the left lane were traffic flow interruption factors.

The driver of V3 is a 35 year-old male who bumped his head on the left window and was checked out by EMS on-scene. He was on his way to work, ahead of schedule and not in a hurry. He was in the middle lane traveling at 112 kph (70 mph). He noticed a police car up ahead in the left lane driving slow and backing traffic up because nobody would pass him. Since he was traveling a little bit behind V1 and V2, he witnessed V1 strike V2 in the rear. When he saw V2 swerve and fishtail out of control, he started to merge right to ensure he wasn't anyway involved in the crash. He said that as he was gradually moving over V1 suddenly made a sharp maneuver to the right and struck his left side pushing his vehicle onto the right paved shoulder where himself and V1 came to rest. His vehicle was drivable but towed from the scene.

The Critical Precrash Event for V3 was "Not involved in the First Harmful Event." Rush hour congestion was the only associated factor for this driver.