This two-vehicle crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a two-lane divided major urban highway. This section of the roadway consisted of two curved northbound lanes; to the right of these lanes was a shoulder area beyond which there were three additional northbound lanes divided by a raised metal guardrail. The bituminous covered roadway was dry, level, and curved to the left, and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit was 80 kmph (50 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during the early evening daylight hours. The roadway was free of any noticeable defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.

Vehicle one, a 2007 Ford Focus 4-door sedan, was traveling northbound in lane one negotiating a curve when it attempted to enter lane two, the adjacent lane. The front of V1 contacted the rear of Vehicle two, a 2003 Ford F150 pick-up truck. After the initial impact, V1 traveled forward while rotating counterclockwise and came to final rest facing slightly westward across both lanes. After impact, V2 rotated clockwise, traveling forward several feet where it eventually came to a controlled stop in lane two facing northward. The damages to V1 were severely disabling and it was towed from the scene. The damages to V2 were moderate and it was not towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

V1 was driven by a 29-year old male who was the only occupant. He was injured and transported from the scene directly to the hospital. An attempt was made to talk with the driver while the medics were attending to and lifting him aboard the ambulance, but he refused to comment. Later attempts were also made to locate the driver by telephone only to find that the telephone number was not listed. Most of the information was derived from the police on scene, scene evidence, and information from the driver of V2.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V1 was "this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the left side of travel lane." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded to this vehicle was "type of driver error unknown" due to the lack of interview. The only associated factor that could be coded to the driver of V1 was the use of a prescription medication often used to treat anxiety.

V2 was driven by a 24-year old male, who with the help of an interpreter, explained how he had been traveling northbound in lane two at about 50 mph. He was a painter and was on his way home from a job site. He was carrying a couple pieces of furniture in the bed of his truck that had been given to him at one of his jobs. He was looking straight ahead; however, at the last minute before the crash he saw V1 merging into his lane from the right rear and for some reason run into the back of his truck. The couch and other furniture flew off the back of the truck onto the roadway. The driver was attended to by medics on scene and eventually transported to the hospital with non-life threatening injuries.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V2 was "other motor vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane (same direction) - over right line." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to this driver.