The crash sequence began on an 8-lane highway with four westbound lanes and four eastbound lanes divided by a grass median and guardrail. There was also a guardrail on the right side of lane one. This was a straight roadway with a downhill slope of 3.3 percent in the westbound direction and a posted speed of 89 kmph (55 mph). The skies were clear and the road was dry during the early afternoon on a weekend. Traffic was moderate on this well-traveled road.

V1, a 2007 Ford F150 extended cab pickup truck towing a 2007 McKenzie Starwood 30 ft. travel trailer, was driven by a 36 year-old male traveling with his 33 year-old wife. The driver stated that he was driving west in lane four at a rate of 108 kmph (67 mph) when a vehicle in lane three passed him at a much higher rate of speed. A gust of wind from the passing vehicle caused the travel trailer to sway. The driver noticed that the automatic brake assist on his vehicle did not activate, allowing the trailer to continue out-of-control. The driver tried to regain control of the trailer by braking gently and steering in the opposite direction of the sway. His attempts to regain control were unsuccessful and the trailer jackknifed to the right side of V1, causing V1 to rotate clockwise 180 degrees across the three right lanes and into the guardrail, impacting it with the left front portion of V1. V1 continued its clockwise spin after striking the guardrail. There was damage to the left top rear corner of the trailer that could only have occurred if the trailer tipped onto its left side and the top corner struck the guardrail, then up-righted itself after the impact. The trailer continued to rotate clockwise an additional 45 degrees, dragging the truck back onto the road where it jackknifed against the left side of V1. V1 came to rest facing east in lane two and the trailer facing south across lanes one, two and the shoulder. Both occupants were transported with injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

Two witnesses at the scene both confirmed what the driver of V1 reported and added that, at one point, the trailer was in the air. Police cited the driver for failing to remain in lane, exceeding the speed limit, failing to give full time and attention, and inadequate trailer coupling.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle loss of control due to jackknife event." The Critical Reason for the Pre-Crash Event was " Too fast for conditions," because the driver was traveling too fast for the towed unit. Associated factors coded to the driver include incorrect evasive action, unfamiliarity with the roadway, and a vehicle related factor in that the automatic braking device for the trailer, located under the steering wheel of V1, failed to activate. V1 also may not have been capable of towing a trailer weighing over 7,000 lbs.