This crash occurred in the morning of a weekday in the middle of an intersection between a two-lane east/west roadway and a private driveway. The roadway consisted of one lane in each direction. The roadway was bituminous, level, and curved to the right (southbound) with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). The traffic flow was a bit congested and the roadway had patches of black ice on it.

V1, a 1998 Isuzu Rodeo with 3 occupants, was westbound in lane one. V2, a 2005 Ford Taurus with one occupant, was exiting a driveway of a residence. V2 pulled out of the driveway and was struck on the left side by the front of V1. The two vehicles than side slapped before coming to final rest on opposite sides of the roadway. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 32-year-old female was transported for treatment of minor injuries. Her two children were also transported. She advised that she was traveling up the roadway when V2 just pulled out in front of her. She said she swerved to avoid hitting V2 but it was to late. She struck V2 and then departed the roadway.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from driveway, turning into same direction. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factors coded to this vehicle were a sightline restriction from a brick pillar that did not give the driver a clear view of the driveway and the icy roadways.

The driver of V2, a 33-year-old female was transported for treatment of minor injuries. She advised that she did not notice V1 when she was pulling out of the driveway until it was to late. Two brick pillars on either side of the roadway obstructed the driver's view of on-coming traffic. She began her right turn and was struck on the left side.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded this vehicle traveling, turning right at intersection. The Critical Reason was a driver related error, the driver turned with an obstructed view. The driver was also on the cell phone, which served as an internal distraction. The sightline obstruction and icy roads were also coded as associated factors.