This single vehicle daytime collision occurred during early morning hours on the southbound lanes of a north/south highway. The southbound lanes are dry, concrete, level, and consist of five lanes. An asphalt shoulder borders the west edge of the highway. West of the west edge exists a chain-link fence. An asphalt median borders the east edge of the highway. East of the median exists a raised concrete divider. The concrete divider separates the northbound and southbound lanes of the highway. The highway is designated an 89 kmph (55 mph).

Vehicle one (V1) is a 1998 Ford Explorer, sport utility vehicle, driven by an unlicensed thirty three (33) year old male with two passengers was traveling southbound in the number four lane. As V1 traveled, it began to change lanes to the right. A non-contact vehicle, an 2001 Infiniti I30, traveling in the number two lane attempted to change lanes to the left. The driver of V1 saw the non-contact vehicle, through the right side mirror, as it attempted to change lanes into the same lane. The driver of V1 partially entered the number three lane prior to swerving back into the number four lane. V1 fish-tailed, causing it to roll unto its left plane. V1 rolled across all lanes until coming to rest blocking the number one lane. V1 came to rest on its roof facing northeast. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1.

The critical pre-crash event was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from adjacent lane (same direction) - over right lane line. The critical reason was coded as a driver related factor: overcompensation. The driver has high blood pressure and high cholesterol. He takes Lisinopril, Lovastatin, and Aspirin. He also takes an over-the-counter energy tonic. For this trip, the driver was commuting from home to work. The driver bought the vehicle two months prior. About a month ago he was driving out-of-state when the vehicle also fish-tailed, causing it to strike a raised asphalt curb on the side of the highway. He made contact with the front wheels of the vehicle. The driver doesn't recall jerking the wheel at the previous collision.