The crash occurred in the intersection of an undivided 4-lane roadway and an entrance to an army base. There were two eastbound and two westbound lanes. In the eastbound direction, lane two was a left turn-only lane to enter the base. This was a straight, level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). It was the early morning on a weekday. The roads were dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was moderate.

V1, a 1999 Nissan Pathfinder utility vehicle with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane 2, attempting to make a left turn. V2, a 1999 Chevy Malibu 4-door with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane one. V1 made a left turn and struck V2 on the left side. After impact, V2 rotated 45 degrees, struck a curb, crossed over a 12m wide grass median, and then came to final rest in the entrance to the base, facing south. V1 came to a rest at the point of impact, facing northeast. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the 1999 Pathfinder, was driven by a 50-year old male who reported no injuries. He stated that he was attempting to turn into the base but the sun was in his eyes. He said as he was turning he felt the impact and heard the sound of a car crash. He did not stop prior to initiating his turn. He did not see V2 prior to impact.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 is this vehicle turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for Critical Pre-crash Event was an environmental factor, sun glare. There was a strong glare from the sun in the eastbound direction of the roadway. On scene, several other vehicles ran over police officer's flares because they could not see them due to the sun glare. Another contributing factor was that the driver failed to look far enough ahead. Since the sun was in his eyes, the driver could have taken extra precaution when turning into the compound.

V2, the 1999 Chevy Malibu, was driven by a 55-year old male who was transported due to injuries. Upon reaching the driver, he stated that he would not be speaking to anyone unless his attorney approved. His attorney was contacted and an interview was denied due to litigation. The attorney also stated that his client could not speak because there was a major mistake on the accident report. He said he could not comment on what the mistake was and that it would take about a month or more to fix it.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction-over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The driver suffered from glaucoma and was using prescription eye drops. No other factors could be coded due to the lack of interview.