This four-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. Both trafficways are straight and divided by a curbed median. The approaches consist of two through lanes, two left turn lanes and a right turn lane. The speed limit for these roadways is 72 kmph (45 mph). There were snow banks on the corners of the intersection. This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Toyota Prius, was westbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Jeep Cherokee, was northbound in lane two. Vehicle three (V3), a 1997 Ford Explorer, was stopped southbound in lane five and vehicle four (V4), a 2001 Honda Civic, was stopped southbound in lane four. In the intersection, the front of V1 struck the right side of V2. V2 rotated clockwise, traveling to the northwest. The left side of V2 struck the front of V3 and the back of V2 struck the left side of V4. V1 rotated clockwise, traveling to the northwest corner of the intersection and the left side struck a snow bank. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-nine-year-old female, had just left her home to take her two young children to school. She was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle and passengers. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she was looking forward and then glanced to the right as she entered the intersection. She further stated that she never saw V2 prior to the crash.

The driver of V2, a forty-nine-year-old male, had just left home to take his three children to school. He was well rested, healthy and comfortable with his vehicle and passengers. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that he was looking forward and talking to his passengers as he entered the intersection. He further stated that he never saw V1 prior to the crash.

The driver of V3, a twenty-eight-year-old male, was on his way to work from his home. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that he did not see V1 or V2 prior to the crash.

The driver of V4 was a twenty-two-year-old male.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's inadequate surveillance was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded as "not involved first harmful event." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was "not coded to this vehicle."