This crash occurred in the westbound lanes of a two-way, multi-lane, divided roadway. The roadway consisted of five eastbound lanes (with dedicated right and left turn only lanes) and three westbound lanes. The bituminous roadway was dry, straight, and level, with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). Conditions were dark with streetlights, on a weekday evening. The traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 2006 Volvo XC 90 with three occupants, was eastbound in lane five (the designated left turn lane). V2, a 2007 Chevrolet Express passenger van with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane two. Both vehicles were approaching the same intersection. As the two vehicles reached the intersection, V1 attempted to make a U-turn, across the path of V2. The front of V2 made contact with the right side of V1. After impact, V2 rotated in a counter-clockwise direction, rolling one quarter-turn, onto its right side. V2 continued to travel westbound on its right side approximately 58 meters, before coming to final rest in lane one. V1 was also directed westbound after impact, traveling approximately 45 meters, before coming to final rest at the entrance of a parking lot. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 36-year old male, was transported to the hospital due to injury. He stated that he and his family had just left a nearby restaurant, and needed to make the U-turn to head home. The driver indicated that he came to a complete stop in order to allow oncoming traffic to pass. He saw headlights in the distance, and believed he had ample time to complete his turn. The driver then took his eyes off of V2, and entered the intersection. He did not see the other vehicle again prior to impact.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded other, making a U-turn. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related decision error, misjudgment of gap or other's speed. The driver misjudged the gap distance and consequently made a U-turn at an inappropriate time. Physical factors for this driver included Reiter's Syndrome (arthritis), high cholesterol, and allergies for which he takes several medications. An emotional factor for the driver was work-related stress. The driver cited tight delivery schedules as the cause. Additionally, it is the driver's normal driving pattern to be in a hurry when behind the wheel.

The driver of V2, a 37-year old female, was transported to the hospital due to injury. She stated that she was a shuttle transport driver, taking people to and from airports and hotels. She had just made her last stop at a nearby hotel, and was heading home. According to the driver of V2, she saw V1 at the intersection, but did not think he was going to pull out in front of her. She did not have enough time to react.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The medical record showed that the driver had a .081 BAC level. There may have been a physical factor as well. The driver's daily medication included an anticonvulsant, for an unknown physical condition. Other associated factors included traveling too fast for conditions, and a false assumption. The driver of V2 assumed that the other driver would yield the right-of-way.