This is a two-vehicle crash that occurred in the eastbound lanes of an interstate two lane bituminous roadway. There are two westbound and two eastbound lanes that are separated by a depressed earth median. The speed limit on the roadway is posted 105 kmph (65 mph). Both roadways are bordered by a two-lane, two-way frontage road. It was an early evening crash. The roadway was dry and there were no atmospheric conditions that contributed to this crash.

Vehicle one (V1) , a 1989 Ford F-150 pickup, was traveling eastbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2) , a 2006 Peterbilt tractor towing a trailer, was traveling eastbound in lane one. V1 began to travel into lane one and the front right corner of V1 struck the left side of V2 near the gas tank. V1 then began to rotate clockwise and the front of V2 struck V1 near the right rear cargo area. Both vehicles then traveled off the right side of the roadway and V1 struck a barbwire fence. V1 rolled over prior to striking the fence. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A forty (40) year old male drove V1. He stated that he was traveling eastbound in the #2 lane and was passing V2. He said that he thought he had already passed V2 when he moved into the #1 lane. He said that he hit the side of V2. He said that when he realized he was going to get hit, he got down onto the floorboard of his vehicle. The driver said that he was on his way home, coming from the casino. He said that he worked from 0800-1700 hours the day of the crash and went to the casino right after work. He said that he drank at least 6-7 beers before leaving the casino and driving home. He said that when he left the casino, he felt a little drunk. He said that there was a camper shell on his truck that blocked his view of V2 as he was passing it. The driver had been driving for about 30 minutes before the crash. The driver is in good health and takes no medication. A BAC test on the driver about 1 hour after the crash showed a 0.189% BAC result.

A fifty six (56) year old male drove V2. A fifty one (51) year old male also occupied the fright front passenger seat at the time of the crash. There were no injuries reported by both occupants of the vehicle. The driver of V2 could not be located for an interview.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the right side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from adjacent lane (same direction) - over the left lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.