This two vehicle daytime collision occurred, shortly after midday, on the eastbound lanes of an east/west Interstate highway. The eastbound side of the highway is dry, level, concrete, and consists of three lanes. The north edge of the eastbound lanes are bordered by an asphalt median. North of the asphalt median exists a concrete center divider that separates the eastbound lanes from the westbound lanes. An asphalt shoulder borders the south edge of the highway. South of the south shoulder exists a raised asphalt curb. South of the curb exists a dirt embankment area. The highway is designated a 104 kmph (65 mph) zone.

Vehicle one (V1) is a 1998 Toyota Tacoma pickup, driven by a fifty six (56) year old female who was traveling eastbound in the number two lane. Vehicle two (V2) is a 2007 Toyota Camry four-door sedan driven by a twenty three (23) year old male who was traveling eastbound in the number three lane. As V2 traveled, V1 began changing lanes to the left. The left plane of V1 contacted the right front bumper corner of V2. V1 traveled across the asphalt median until contacting the concrete center divider with its front plane. V1 then contacted the concrete center divider with its left plane as it traveled back across all lanes. The front plane of V1 contacted the raised asphalt curb as it proceeded unto the embankment area. The front plane of V1 contacted the embankment area as it traveled east. The front plane then contacted a highway reflector located on the embankment area. As a result of the impact between V1 and V2, V2 rotated counter-clockwise as it headed towards the concrete center divider. The right plane of V2 contacted the center divider as it came to final rest. V1 came to rest partially on the dirt embankment facing eastbound. V2 came to rest on the asphalt median facing southwest. V1 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 113 kmph for V1 and 113 kmph for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the left side of travel lane. The critical reason was assigned to V1 as a driver related factor: type of driver error unknown. The driver of V1 was not interviewed. The driver of V2 reported that he had been traveling next to V1 and slightly behind her for a few kilometers (miles), and then all of a sudden V1 changed into his lane in front of him without using her turn signal. There was also a dog inside V1 according to the investigating officer. It is unknown if the dog created and interior distraction for the driver of V1. The police report indicates that V1 made an unsafe ane change into V2's path, the reason for this is unknown.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane (same direction) - over right lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.