The crash occurred in the intersection of an undivided north/south 5-lane roadway and a two-lane undivided east/west roadway. Both roadways were straight, level, and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The east/west roadway ended at the intersection in the eastbound direction. This roadway was controlled by a stop sign, while the north/south roadway had no traffic control device. The crash occurred in the early afternoon on the weekend. Traffic flow was moderate. It was a sunny day with no adverse weather conditions.

V2 was a 2001 Mazda 626 4-door sedan that was driven by a 28-year old female who was traveling alone. V2 was traveling in lane two southbound. V1, a 1992 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, was facing east intending to turn left to head north. As V1 turned onto the north/south roadway, V2 struck V1 in the front and V1 came to a rest in the middle of the intersection. The driver of V2 stated that she was driving at about 35 mph (56 kmph) down the roadway headed to church. She stated that she saw V1 a split second before she struck it. The driver of V2 was not injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 26-year old male who was traveling alone. The driver stated that when he stopped at the intersection, a driver who was stopped in the first southbound lane motioned for him to proceed. The driver proceeded and was then struck by V2. The driver of V1 claimed that V2 was speeding down the roadway and that's why he was struck. A witness was questioned about this claim. He said that V2 was not speeding but that V1 entered the roadway when he shouldn't have.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver related recognition error, inadequate surveillance. He failed to look and trusted the driver of the non-contact vehicle stopped in the first southbound lane when he waved him out. Associating factors included an exterior factor, focusing on non-contact vehicle to left, and a sightline restriction caused by the vehicle whose driver motioned for him to proceed.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor was a sightline restriction caused by the non-contact vehicle stopped in the first southbound lane.