This three vehicle daytime collision occurred at a four-leg intersection comprised of a north/south roadway and an east/west roadway. The north/south roadway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of two lanes. The east/west roadway is undivided, dry, level, asphalt, and consists of four lanes. The east/west roadway has parking lanes and bicycle lanes bordering its sides. Stop signs are located on the north and south legs of the north/south roadway. The stop signs were functioning properly at the time of the collision. The north/south roadway is designated a 40 kmph (25 mph) zone. The east/west roadway is designated a 64 kmph (40 mph) zone.

Vehicle one (V1) is a 2006 Toyota Highlander, sport utility vehicle, driven by a thirty four (34) year old female was traveling southbound in the number one lane. Vehicle two (V2) is a 2000 Toyota Sienna, mini-van, driven by a fifty one (51) year old female was traveling eastbound in the number one lane. Vehicle three (V3) is a 1990 Honda Accord, four-door sedan, driven by a twenty one (21) year old female was stopped in the northbound number one lane. As V1 entered the intersection from a stop, its front plane contacted the left plane of V2. The right plane of V1 then contacted the left plane of V2 in a side-slap manner. Both vehicles traveled towards a stopped V3. The front plane of V2 contacted the front plane of V3. The front plane of V1 also contacted the front plane of V3. Both V1 and V2 came to rest facing V3 while blocking the eastbound number one lane. V3 came to rest facing northbound in its original lane. V1 received moderate damage and was towed from the scene. V2 received moderate damage and was towed from the scene. V3 received moderate damage and was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was assigned to V1 as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions. The driver of V1 believed that V2 would slow down to allow her to cross the intersection. This driver also failed to yield the right of way to V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

Associated factor for V1, surveillance, inexperienced.