The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. The north/south roadway was undivided with two lanes in each direction. The east/west roadway was also undivided with one lane in each direction. The north/south roadway was straight, level, and bituminous with a speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). It was the evening hours of a weekday, the roads were dry and it was dusk and clear with no adverse conditions.

V1, 1995 Chevrolet Camaro two door coupe with three occupants, was traveling southbound in lane one. V2, a 2000 GMC Yukon sport utility vehicle with three occupants, was traveling northbound in lane two, and attempting to make a left turn at the intersection. At the intersection, the front of V1 impacted the front of V2. V1 came to a final rest with its front wheels on the southwest curb. V2 came to a final rest in the southwest corner of the intersection facing west. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Chevrolet Camaro, was driven by a 23 year-old male who reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. A 23 year-old male occupant also reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. A 23 year-old female occupant reported no injuries. The driver advised to the police that he was traveling straight in lane one when the driver of V2 made a left turn in front of him.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over left lane line." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this driver. A decision factor, traveling too fast for conditions, did not realize that caution was required, was coded as an associated factor. Other possible associated factors were coded unknown because no interview was obtained.

V2, the GMC Yukon, was driven by a 36 year-old male who reported no injuries. A 35 year-old female occupant and a six year-old male occupant both reported no injuries. The driver advised that he was going home from a car dealership at the time. He advised that he stopped at the intersection, and did not see any cars coming when he attempted to make the left turn.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "this vehicle turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as a driver related factor, inadequate surveillance (looked, but did not see). No additional associated factors were coded to this driver.