This crash occurred in the first westbound lane of a 3-lane undivided roadway. There were 2 lanes westbound (one being a left turn only lane at the nearby intersection) and 1 lane eastbound. This was a straight, level, and bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 80 kmph (50 mph). It was mid-morning on a weekday, the roads were dry and skies were clear. Traffic flow was congested with a lot of stop and go activity.

V1, a 2005 Dodge Caravan minivan with one occupant, was traveling west in lane one intending on continuing straight. V2, a 2001 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan with one occupant, was traveling west in lane one intending on continuing straight. V3, a 2006 BMW 330Ci 2-door convertible, was heading west in lane one intending on continuing straight. V1 was traveling behind V2 and V2 was traveling behind V3. V3 was traveling behind V4, a 2003 Mercury Sable 4-door sedan. As all the vehicles approached the intersection, the light turned red and the vehicles slowed down for the traffic control device. At this time, V1 did not slow down in time and struck the rear of V2 and pushed V2 into the rear of V3, which was pushed into the rear of V4. All the vehicles came to rest approximately at point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the 2005 Dodge Caravan, was driven by a 53-year-old female who reported no injuries. The driver stated that she was heading home from work. She works as a nurse in a hospital and had just completed a 12-hour overnight shift. She was tired and wanted to get home. She stated that she has been doing the overnight shifts for quite some time now and has adjusted to the "crazy" overnight schedule. As the vehicles approached the intersection, she stated that she must have been daydreaming and took her eyes off the road and before she realized it, V2 was slowing down and had the brake lights on. The driver of V1 braked and attempted to avoid the collision but was unsuccessful. The front of V1 struck the rear of V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded as "Other motor vehicle in lane - traveling in same direction while decelerating." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as "Inattention (daydreaming)." The driver stated that she wasn't doing or thinking about anything in particular, just not focusing on the road and what the other vehicles were doing. The other associated factors that were coded to this driver were that the driver stated she was fatigued and the rush-hour congestion.

V2, the 2001 Toyota Camry, was driven by a 71-year old female who reported "C" injuries and was transported to a medical facility. The driver refused an interview. According to the driver of V1, she slowed down for the traffic ahead and the red light and that was when she was struck in the rear by V1 and then pushed into the rear of V3.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded as "Other motor vehicle in lane traveling same direction at higher speed." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this driver. Without an interview the only associated factor that was coded to this driver was rush-hour congestion.

V3, the 2006 BMW convertible, was driven by a 53-year-old female who reported "C" injuries but refused medical treatment. The passenger, a 16-year-old female, reported no injuries. The driver stated that she was slowing down, pretty much at a stop when she was struck from behind by V2 and pushed into the rear of V4. She said she was then struck again by the front of V2 and again pushed into the rear of V4. The driver of V3 believed that V2 started the collision course and struck her and then V2 was struck by V1, which caused the second impact that she felt. Evidence did not support two impacts.

The driver was not part of the first harmful event and so no Critical Pre-crash Event and no Critical Reason was coded to V3. Associated factors that were coded to the driver of V3 were conversation with the passenger and the rush-hour congestion.