This crash occurred on a five-lane undivided north/south roadway. The roadway was straight, level, new asphalt. It was a cloudy, rainy day. It was mid week just before the noon hour. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph).

Vehicle #1, a 1995 GMC 3500 work truck, was traveling north in lane two. The driver was starting to merge over into the left turn lane to turn into a restaurant for lunch. As he started to merge his vehicle was struck in the left door area by Vehicle #2, a 2008 Chevrolet HHR utility vehicle. V1 then rotated counterclockwise to face to the west in the center of the left turn lane for final rest. Vehicle #2 came to final rest facing north in the left turn lane. The driver of V1 stated he was not injured, just shaken-up a bit. The driver of V2 was transported to a local trauma unit to be checked out. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 60-year-old male drove V1. He reported being in good health and taking no medications. He reported wearing corrective lenses for far-sightedness. This driver stated he was on his way back to his office but wanted to have lunch before he went back. He stated that he noticed a restaurant to his left as he sat at the intersection waiting for the light to change. He stated that as he traveled north he changed lanes from lane one to lane two, but wanted to merge over into the left turn lane so he could turn into the restaurant. The driver said that he looked in his rear view mirrors and even leaned over to look to the left rear to see if there was anything over in the left turn lane so he could merge. He said that as he started to merge he felt a bump and then his vehicle started to rotate counterclockwise. He stated he did not know where V2 came from. He stated that V2 must have gotten up some speed before contact because his vehicle was fully loaded and weighed over 9000 lbs.

A 27-year-old female drove V2. She reported being in good health and taking no medications. She also reported that she does not wear corrective lenses. This driver stated she had just left a restaurant and that a vehicle that was traveling south came to a stop to let her turn onto the roadway to travel north. She stated that after pulling out into the left turn lane she checked traffic over her right shoulder as she intended to accelerate and merge to her right. She then looked forward again and noticed a large work vehicle coming across in front of her (V1). She stated that the truck rotated counterclockwise to final rest facing west across the front of her vehicle. She said that the officer felt she should let EMS personal look at her because her back and neck were hurting.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the left side of the lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded inadequate surveillance. Associated factors coded to this driver were unfamiliarity with this area, a view obstruction related to the design of the truck, and the weather (rain).

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane (same direction) over right lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to this driver include inadequate surveillance for failing to see V1 and the weather (rain).