The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a two-way, four-lane roadway, which was divided by a wide grass median. There were two eastbound lanes, with a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). Conditions were daylight on a weekday morning with wet roads and cloudy skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1 was a 2007 Mazda 3 with one occupant. The driver lost control of his vehicle while traveling eastbound in lane one. The vehicle traveled off the left side of the roadway, onto the grassy median. Once on the grassy median, V1 began to rotate counterclockwise. The front of V1 made minor contact with a tree of greater than ten centimeters in diameter. V1 continued to rotate, as it traveled southbound in the median. The right side of V1 then slammed into another tree of greater than ten centimeters in diameter. V1 was towed from the scene due to heavy damage caused by the second impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1.

The Mazda 3 was driven by a 21-year old male, who was killed. According to the driver's mother and sister, the motorist was on his way to work at his brother's business, where he worked occasionally, only when needed by the brother. The vehicle, which belonged to the driver's sister, was borrowed that morning without her knowing it. To the best of her knowledge, her brother had previously driven the vehicle only a couple of times. Both relatives confirmed that the driver normally drives very fast, but did not know why he would have been driving at such a high rate of speed at that particular time. The mother commented that it would never have been necessary to hurry to the brother's place of business, as he was that morning.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle control loss due to traveling too fast for conditions." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related decision error, aggressive driving behavior. Another motorist, who drove up to the scene within minutes of the crash, stated that he had been passed by the driver of V1 moments earlier. He was approached very fast from behind, and the driver of V1 fishtailed as he passed the witness, nearly losing control of the vehicle. The witness was therefore not surprised to see that V1 had crashed. One associated factor for this driver was decision-related. The driver was traveling too fast for conditions. A physical-related factor for the driver was a pre-existing health condition. The motorist was recently diagnosed with seizures, for which he was prescribed the medication Trileptal. It is unknown whether the driver was taking his medication as directed. An emotional-related factor was the driver's normal driving pattern of being in a hurry. An experience-related factor was the driver's limited experience and questionable comfort level with his sister's vehicle. Finally, there were roadway-related factors. The road was wet, from a recent downpour. There was also a dip in the roadway, which may have had standing water in it at the time of the crash. With or without water in it, the dip in the roadway has been a known factor in other crashes at this location. No additional associated factors could be determined for the driver, due to limited interview data.