Case Summary 2007-12-070

The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a five-lane roadway. There were two eastbound lanes and three westbound lanes. The westbound side had two left-turn lanes, one you could also go straight in. This was a straight, level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed of 72 kmph (45 mph). It was evening on a weekday and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was congested, but flowing. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, a 1998 Cadillac Deville four door with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane two. V1 approached an intersection where she stopped for the red light. She was waiting to turn left. V2, a 1994 Oldsmobile Ciera four door with one occupant was traveling eastbound in lane two. V2 was intending to go straight through the intersection. The driver of V1 stated that the light turned green and she and a truck on her left waited for a car to go by and then proceeded to turn. She stated that she did not see V2 and did not know where he came from. The driver of V2 stated that he saw V1 but did not think that she would try to make the turn until he was too close to avoid her. V2 applied the brakes but could not avoid V1. The front of V2 contacted the right of V1 before they both came to final rest in the intersection.

V1, the Cadillac Deville, was driven by a 63-year old female. She reported injuries and was transported to a local trauma facility. She advised that she was on her way home from her son's house. She stated that she had been stopped at the intersection more than ten seconds. She then proceeded at between 2-16 kmph (1-10 mph). She did not see V2 prior to the impact so she could not attempt any avoidance maneuvers.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V1 was: This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a driver related error: inadequate surveillance (failed to look, looked but did not see).

V2, the Oldsmobile Ciera, was driven by a 36-year old male. He reported no injuries and refused treatment. He stated that he was traveling home from the store. He stated that he had been traveling between 50-64 kmph (31-40 mph) when he made the evasive maneuver to avoid contacting V1. He was unsuccessful.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V2 was: Other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to this driver was a false assumption that V1 would yield the right-of-way.