This crash occurred in the early evening of a weekend in the westbound lanes of fully controlled interstate. The east/west interstate consisted of four lanes in each direction divided by a concrete barrier wall. The bituminous roadway featured a downhill slope and a gentle curve to the left (westbound direction). The roadway was dry with a posted speed limit of 112 kmph (70 mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1995 Pontiac Firebird with one occupant, was westbound in lane three negotiating the curve. As V1 continued westbound its right rear tire came loose and began to wobble causing the driver to lose control of the vehicle. V1 began rotating counter-clockwise, crossed over lane 4 and departed the roadway to the left where it struck the center wall (causing the right rear tire to sheer off). V1 then slid down the center wall before coming to final rest in the median. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1, a 45-year-old female claimed to be in good health and not taking any medications at this time. She stated that as she negotiated the curve she felt the vehicle start to shake and the steering wheel was rocking very hard. She stated then the vehicle-rotated counter clockwise to slide into the median wall. The driver of a vehicle that witnessed the crash informed her that her right rear tire fell off just as she lost control (this researcher was unable to find any contact information regarding this witness, therefore an interview could not be obtained). The driver of V1 suffered minor injuries but did not require transport.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle control loss due to disabling vehicle failure. The Critical Reason was a vehicle related factor, tires/wheels failed. The driver informed this researcher that she had bought new rims and tires four days prior to the crash. The fact that the driver only rarely travels this roadway was coded as an associated factor.

Subsequent conversations with the driver revealed that the mechanic who performed brake work and installed the aftermarket rims and tires advised against using those particular rims. The driver also stated that she never had the lug nuts on any of the tires re-tightened as recommended.