Case Summary 2007-43-200

This single-vehicle right roadside departure crash occurred on a four lane, urban roadway divided by a two-way left turn lane. There are two eastbound lanes and two westbound lanes. Westbound approach curves left with a -7% super-elevation. The uphill grade is +7%. There are raised barrier curbs and sidewalks present. The posted speed limit is 56 kph (35 mph). Setting was morning hours on a weekday. Conditions were daylight, cold and clear with no adverse atmospheric conditions. *Ice was present on westbound lane one due to garbage trucks leaking water as they traveled up the steep roadway (per city road workers). Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1.

V1 is a 1998 Toyota Corolla, four-door with one occupant traveling westbound in lane one. V1 was traveling the posted speed limit, when it lost control on a slick patch of ice on the roadway. V1 departed the roadway to the right, striking a curb with its RF tire (Event 1). V1 then traveled 10.6 meters (35 feet) along the sidewalk leaving a RF tire impression. The FR bumper and RF tire then contacted a utility pole guide wire (Event 2). As a result of V1 contacting the guide wire, V1 ramped up the guide wire causing it to overturn about its left-axis (Event 3). V1 rolled two-quarter turns and came to final rest on its top, 4.7 meters (15 feet) from initiation point facing NW in lane one.

The driver of V1 is a 21 year-old male who cancelled EMS prior to their arrival for a laceration to his hand. On this clear, cold morning, he was on his way to work from his residence. His approximate travel time was 40 minutes; 30 miles. He was a block away from work when he exited the highway onto an urban roadway. This roadway contains a steep uphill grade. He noticed the ground was wet as he was driving, but never thought it would be icy. He was accelerating up the hill at 64 kph (40 mph) when all of his tires broke traction. He tried steering, but nothing happened due to the ice. His car slid off the road to the right striking a curb, and then striking a guide wire for a utility pole. His car ramped up the guide wire causing it to rollover 2 quarter turns to the left and come to rest on its top in the roadway. His vehicle was towed with disabling damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 is “This vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side.” The Critical Reason for the Critical Event is “Slick roads (low friction road surface due to ice),” an Environment related factor. The driver did attempt to steer left and right as well as brake with lock-up, but was unable to regain traction. The driver has a history of ruptured discs in his back 2-3 years ago, but says it doesn't affect his driving ability. He was listening to the radio, a non-driving activity. He was traveling too fast for conditions, didn't realized caution was needed. He noticed the wet roads ahead, but didn't think they would be icy, a false assumption. The unsafe tread depth was a tire/wheel deficiency factor. He also reported engine problems, an engine deficiency factor. The icy roadways and lack of an adequate super-elevation were roadway related factors.