This two-vehicle crash occurred in a business district on a 6-lane asphalt roadway with a center left turn lane and a right-turn only lane for westbound traffic. The westbound lanes are straight then curve right prior to the light-controlled intersection. The speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred during lunchtime congestion. There were no adverse weather or road conditions present.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1989 Ford Crown Victoria sedan, was westbound in the #1 lane when it attempted to change lanes to the left and impacted the back of vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Dodge Neon that had slowed down for the yellow light. Both vehicles came to rest in the area of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a nineteen (19) year-old male and his sixteen (16) year-old passenger, had driven 64 kilometers (40 miles) from the driver's residence in another town. The driver stated he was planning on looking at new cars at a car dealership and needed to turn left at the intersection in order to get to the dealership. He stated he signaled to change lanes as he looked at his side mirror. He saw V2 in front and believed it would continue through the light at the intersection. He then turned his head left toward the rear to see if any vehicles were in his blind spot and when he looked forward again, he ran into the back of V2 that was decelerating for the yellow light. He drives the road daily and his vehicle was in good working order. V1 was towed from the scene.

The driver of V2, a sixteen (16) year-old female and her fifteen (15) year-old passenger, were unable to be interviewed.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions. Additional factors for V1 were: driver inattention for thinking about a future event, an exterior distraction, inadequate surveillance, misjudgment of V2's velocity, and following too close.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from adjacent lane (same direction) - over right lane line. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.