This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. Both trafficways are straight and divided by a curbed median. The eastbound approach lanes have a downhill grade and consist of three through lanes, a right turn lane and two left turn lanes. The northbound approach lanes have a downhill grade and consist of two through lanes, a right turn lane and two left turn lanes. The speed limit on these roadways is 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours and it was raining at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Toyota 4Runner, was eastbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 1989 Plymouth Voyager, was stopped northbound in lane five (the inside left turn lane). V2 entered the intersection turning left and the left side was struck by the front of V1. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-four-year-old male, was traveling with a twenty-one-year-old male passenger, from his home to his mother's home. He was healthy, well rested and comfortable with his vehicle and passenger. This driver had driven this route daily until he moved six months prior to the crash. He stated that he had been driving for approximately four-and-a-half hours on this leg of his trip and was talking to his passenger at the time of the crash. This driver also stated that the sun was behind him and he could not see what color the traffic signal was as he approached the intersection. When he realized that V2 was entering the intersection, he applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The driver of V2, a fifty-one-year-old male, was on his way home from a restaurant. He was well rested, healthy and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route weekly. This driver stated that he was looking at his intended turn destination and did not notice V1 until just prior to the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was not coded to this vehicle. This driver's failure to ascertain the color of the traffic signal was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see).

The rain and wet roads were associated factors in this crash for both drivers.