This single vehicle rollover crash occurred along a busy stretch of a four lane interstate. This road was straight with a slight uphill grade. A positive concrete barrier divided this roadway from opposing traffic. Both sides of the road contained rumble strips and the pavement was fresh, new bituminous with a posted speed limit of 96 kph (60 mph). Setting was afternoon hours on a weekday. Conditions were clear, sunny and dry.

Vehicle 1 was a 2002 Ford Explorer Sport, two-door, compact utility, with two occupants traveling westbound in lane one. VI had just merged onto the interstate and wanted to switch lanes to the left. As VI started to switch lanes to the left it noticed a vehicle in its lane, so it swerved back to the right. VI swerved too hard to the right and left its travel lane and onto the right paved shoulder. It then over corrected to the left to return to its original travel lane. Once back in its travel lane, it over corrected a third time to the right, causing it to rotate clockwise. VI left 30.2 meters (99 feet) of yaw marks before rolling over on the paved shoulder with the left side leading. VI then started to tip over and contacted the metal guardrail with its top. VI then traveled on its roof 10 meters (33 feet) and came to rest on its roof partially on the roadway and partially on the guardrail, facing east. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1.

The driver of VI, a 28 year-old, pregnant female, had evident injuries and was transported to the trauma center for treatment. She reports being gestational diabetic from her pregnancy and checks her blood sugar four times daily. An hour prior to the crash, she reported her blood sugar to be high. Her and her husband were on their way to get something to eat on the side of town where the husband's parents live. When they merged onto the expressway, the driver wanted to switch lanes to the left. She checked her rearview mirror and saw no cars, so she then checked her blind spot and saw no cars. As she began to change lanes, she noticed a car at her left front corner, which she thinks must have been in lane three and just merged right. To avoid colliding with this car, she swerved right, but too hard and went onto the shoulder. She then over steered left in a panic to return to the roadway. She then swerved right causing her to rotate clockwise. Her and her husband can't recall the rollover events except they think it overturned two times. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with heavy top damage.

The Critical Pre crash Event for VI was "This vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "Overcompensation"-a driver related error. This driver failed to make a simple maneuver to keep her vehicle in control. She unnecessarily pulled her wheel to hard to the right and left, therefore causing her to lose control and overturn. Her pregnancy and diabetes were both health related factors. She did a good job of checking traffic behind her before switching lanes, but she failed to check traffic to the left front, left side of her. She also reported talking to her husband socially prior to the events unfolding. She admitted that the reason for her overcompensation was that she panicked, when she thought she was going to hit the car in her lane to the left.