This two-vehicle crash occurred on an east/west, seven lane, divided, straight roadway with a +4.1% grade and a speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). The roadway intersects a north/south, two lane, undivided, level roadway with a left curve and speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). The eastbound lanes consist of three through lanes and a left turn lane. This crash occurred during daylight hours with light traffic. Traffic at the intersection is controlled by traffic control signals. There were no adverse weather conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Chrysler Town & Country with one occupant, was eastbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Chevrolet Astro Van pulling a 5' X 9' trailer, was northbound in lane one. V2 was stopped for the red light for 5-10 seconds. After the light turned green, the driver attempted a left turn. V1 entered the intersection and the front of V1 struck the left side of V2. The trailer on V2 then struck the right side of V1. Both vehicles came to rest adjacent to the impact area. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a sixty-one year-old female, was traveling from home to court. She was well rested and comfortable with her vehicle. She suffers from Diabetes and high blood pressure. Medication consists of Celexa, Zocor, Lisinopril, Amitriptyline and Metformin. She was driving this route for the first time.

The driver was inattentive to the driving task and failed to look to her right checking for traffic before she entered the intersection.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V2, a forty-four year-old male, was traveling from his children's school to drop off the trailer at the rental company. He was well rested, and comfortable with his vehicle. He drives this route daily. Although the driver stated he was confined to a wheel chair, there were no adaptive driving devices on/in the vehicle. At the scene, the driver was in a wheel chair. He does suffer from high cholesterol and ulcers. The driver stated that he had been stopped at the signal for 5-10 seconds before he entered the intersection. He did not see V1 prior to impact. He failed to look to his left prior to entering the intersection.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).