The crash occurred in the middle of a T-intersection. The north/south roadway was a divided roadway with three southbound lanes and four northbound lanes. The east/west intersecting roadway was undivided and had two lanes eastbound and one lane westbound. Lane two in the eastbound direction was a left turn-only lane. Both roadways were straight and level. The posted speed on the north/south roadway was 72 kmph (45 mph). Conditions were dry and clear on a weekday morning.

. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

V1 was a 2005 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan that was traveling southbound in lane three, intending to travel straight through the intersection. The driver ran a red light and hit the left side of V2, a 2000 Jeep Cherokee utility vehicle that was making a left turn from the second eastbound lane onto the northbound roadway. The front left of V1 struck the left side of V2, causing V2 to spin counterclockwise before coming to final rest facing westbound in the intersection. Both V1 and V2 were towed due to damages. No one was injured.

V1 was driven by a 19-year-old male who was on his way to his friend's house. The driver was driving his mother's vehicle as he was visiting her from out of town. The driver stated in his interview that he did not know exactly where his friend's home was located. He stated that he was looking toward the left when he ran the red light and hit V2. He also stated in the interview that it was the first time he had driven his mother's car and he had rarely driven on that specific roadway. He was cited for the crash for failure to stop at a traffic control device.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle; however, several associated factors were coded to the driver. First, the driver was distracted because he was busy looking for his intended turn destination and did not see the red light. The driver was also unfamiliar with the vehicle and the roadway. He was also an inexperienced driver. He stated that although he had a driver's license he did not own a car. He was visiting his mother for the holiday and was using her vehicle. He did admit in the interview that he was not paying attention to the roadway as he was trying to see where he needed to turn to go to his friend's house. Another associated factor was an illegal maneuver as he ran the red light.

V2 was driven by a 59-year-old male who was traveling eastbound making a left turn at the light when he was hit on the left side. He was on his way home from a doctor's appointment and stated that he had a green light and was passing through the intersection making a left turn when V1 ran the red light and hit him on the driver's side, spinning his vehicle counterclockwise. He was not injured but his vehicle was towed due to damages.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was this vehicle traveling - turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason was coded as inadequate surveillance, because the driver failed to look to his left side ahead before entering the intersection. No additional associated factors were coded to this driver.