This two-vehicle crash occurred towards the end of the block several hundred feet before a one-way intersection. The roadway consisted of four northbound lanes, the forth lane for turning westbound. Also in use, there were two southbound lanes; the one nearest the curb edge was closed due to construction. A one-way westbound roadway intersected these north/southbound lanes. At the corner of the intersection there were signalized traffic control devices controlling travels through the intersection. The bituminous covered roadways were dry, level, and straight and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred on a weekend during the early morning daylight hours. The roadway was free of any noticeable defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.

Vehicle one, 1996 Honda Prelude 2-door coupe, was traveling northbound in lane three when it contacted with its front the rear of vehicle two, an unknown manufacturer and model. Also traveling northbound in lane three. According to the driver of vehicle one, after the two vehicles crashed, vehicle two looked at the driver of vehicle one, said his vehicle was okay continued traveling northbound and turned left/westbound at the intersection. He did not offer to exchange driver information with the driver of V1. Following the initial impact with vehicle two, V1 continued traveling for several feet while rotating slightly clockwise where it came to final rest continuing to face northward. The damages to vehicle one were severe and it was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a 20-year old male, said he was traveling in lane three of the northbound lanes on his way to visit his friends, looking outside of the vehicle to the left and right trying to locate a known street he's familiar with to get him pointed in the right direction. He had traveled many miles from where he lived and was lost. In the process he admits he was hysterical and hyper, he takes a number of medications for his mental state which he said is sometimes very up and others very low. During the interview, he would cry and become very frantic making it hard to understand him, and then suddenly he would become overly calm and sad. He called his mother on the medics cell phone to ask her what to do. The medics suggested to his parents that he should be transported to the hospital for observation for his abnormal behavior. He did not have a valid drivers license. The one that was found inside the glove box had expired and was tore into. The police kept it in their procession and did not mention it on the PAR. After some convincing, he was eventually transported to the hospital for evaluation.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V1 is: "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in the same direction while decelerating". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded to this vehicle is: a recognition error, external distraction". Associated factors contributed to the driver of this vehicle include: inexperience driver, driver did not have a valid drivers license, driver emotionally upset, reasons unknown. Driver confesses to having many mental troubles, possible distractions. External distractions, driver was focused on street signs and directions.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V2 is: “other motor vehicle in lane, traveling at a higher speed”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle.