This single-vehicle crash occurred on a 4-lane asphalt roadway with a raised median. The eastbound lanes are straight and level. The speed limit is 64 kmph (40 mph) The crash occurred just before noon during daylight hours with no adverse weather or road conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1968 Ford F-100 pickup, was eastbound in the #1 lane when, V1 jumped the eastbound curb impacting a fence before rolling over. V1 traveled over the eastbound curb, impacted the chain-link fence including 4 metal support posts that were part of the fence. V1 then impacted a second fence that surrounded a large piece of railroad equipment that was bolted to the ground. The front of V1 then impacted the large piece of equipment which caused V1 to rotate clockwise where it became entangled in the chain-link fencing. V1 rolled over to its left where it came to rest on its left side facing southeast. During the entanglement, a metal fencepost impaled the undercarriage of V1 and came through the floor of V1. The fencing also caused scratches and a puncture on the top of V1. V1 carried a large evaporative cooler unit in the bed as well as other smaller cargo including an oxygen tank. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1, a 72 year old male, was unable to be contacted for an interview. The police report stated the driver did not know why he departed the roadway. Medical records indicate the driver had a history of hypertension and takes the medications: Atenolol, an unspecified gout pill, and an unspecified Potassium supplement. A witness that observed the collision said that V1 was not being driven in an aggressive manner and the driver steered to the right in order to avoid another vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason was coded as a driver related factor: poor directional control. Overcompensation and the choice of an unsuccessful evasive action were associative factors for this driver.