The crash occurred in the southbound lane one of an undivided four-lane roadway with three lanes southbound and one lane northbound. The crash occurred 63 meters from a T-intersection where the southbound roadway ended. There was one right turn-only lane and two left turn-only lanes in the southbound direction. A shopping center was located on the west side of the southbound road with two driveway accesses prior to the intersection. The first driveway was 63 meters north of the intersection and the second driveway was 134 meters north of the intersection. There was a 5 percent uphill slope in the southbound direction for all southbound lanes with a posted speed of 64 kmph (40 mph). This was a straight, dry roadway with the crash occurring during the mid-afternoon hours on a weekday. Both driveways had an 8 percent downhill slope.

V1, a 2001 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, was driven by a 17 year-old male traveling with his 17 year-old male friend. The driver stated that they had just left a shopping center on their way to the mall. The driver rarely drove this area and was stopped in the first driveway about 20 seconds prior to turning right into lane one. He saw V2 approaching in lane one traveling south (his intended direction) with its right turn signal on, and assumed that V2 was turning right into the driveway he was exiting. He therefore began his right turn. As he pulled into lane one to turn right, he realized that V2 was continuing forward, not turning into the driveway as expected. He tried to brake and steered right in an attempt to avoid a collision; however, the front right of V2 struck the right front side of his vehicle. Neither occupant was injured or transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 2003 Honda Odyssey minivan, was driven by a 50 year-old female. The driver stated that she had left her office to go to the bank. She had exited from the second driveway (located in the same shopping center and 70 meters north of the second driveway) minutes prior to the crash traveling 56 kmph (35 mph). The driver had her right turn signal light on, indicating her intention to turn right at the intersection ahead (not the first driveway). She hadn't noticed V1 until it turned right in front of her. As V1 entered her path, she braked and steered left, crashing into the left front portion of V1. She was not transported but complained of pain in her left hand.

The officer on scene issued no citations. The drivers of V1 and V2 were both in concurrence as to the events that unfolded leading to the crash. The researcher observed vehicles approach the intersection from the southbound lane one, using their right turn indicators, with the intention to turn at the intersection, without incident from vehicles exiting either driveway.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling - turning right at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Pre-Crash Event was "false assumption of other's actions." Associated factors for the driver include a misjudgment of the velocity of V2 (he failed to realize that V2 was not slowing as it neared his driveway, as would be expected of a vehicle preparing to make a 90 degree turn), unfamiliarity with the roadway, and driver inexperience.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment from driveway, turning into the same direction." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to the driver of V2.