This two-vehicle rear-end crash occurred just past an intersection with traffic lights, on a weekday during early morning hours. The location was a three-lane divided (without positive barrier) straight asphalt roadway for the west-east direction. It was a two-lane undivided (two-way traffic) left curve roadway from south to north. It was a four lane undivided (two-way traffic) asphalt roadway from north to south. The speed limit is 48 kph (35 mph) for the west-east direction. The full rush hour had not started and there was medium traffic. The weather was clear and the roads dry.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Chevrolet Malibu, was traveling south in the second lane of traffic. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Ford F-150 pick-up, was traveling in lane one of the northbound lanes. Both vehicles were approaching the intersection and both drivers were aware of the presence of the other vehicle. The light at the intersection was green for both vehicles. V1 turned left at the intersection into lane three of the eastbound lanes. V2 turned right at the intersection into lane three of the eastbound lanes, ahead of V1. After both vehicles had completed their turns, the driver of V2 applied the brakes to avoid a non-contact vehicle in front. The driver of V1 applied her brakes before the front of V1 struck the rear of V2. V1 was towed from the scene; V2 was driven. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 19-year old female drove V1. She is in good health, was well rested and does not take any medication. She had driven for about 5 minutes at a distance of 1.6 km (1 mile) from her home. She was heading for work on a different route than usual. She claimed she was not in a hurry while driving, despite being in a hurry while at home getting ready to leave for work. She believed she had the right of way at the intersection and V2 cut into her intended path in a rude manner. She stated she honked her horn at V2 and believed the driver applied his brakes out of anger about her honking. She has been driving for one year and has had no driver education training. She did not know if there was a non-contact vehicle in front of V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded "other motor vehicle in lane - other vehicle decelerating." The critical reason for the critical event was coded "driver related error - following too close to respond to unexpected actions of other vehicle." This driver assumed V2 would continue to proceed in lane three. The driver aggressively honked the horn out of frustration, believing V2 should have yielded the right of way.

A 35-year old male drove V2. He is in good health, was well rested and does not take any medication. He had driven for about five minutes at the time of the crash. He was heading for work on his daily route. He said a vehicle in front of him slowed down and he had to brake to prevent a collision.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded "this vehicle traveling - this vehicle decelerating." No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle.

.