The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a 10 lane interstate highway divided by a positive concrete barrier. There were six lanes eastbound and four lanes westbound. The roadway was straight, level dry, asphalt, with a posted speed limit of 89kph (55mph). The crash occurred at dawn on a weekday morning under clear skies. Traffic flow was moderate.

V1, a 1993 Jeep Cherokee Sport two door with one occupant was traveling eastbound in lane one. The vehicle traveled off the right edge of the road out of control with no pre-crash events. The vehicle traveled southeast across and down a grassy roadside with a slope that varied from approximately 10-15 %. It drove through a chain link fence down an embankment with a slope of about 20%. At the base of the embankment its undercarriage struck the top of a concrete retaining wall (Event 1) and traveled over the edge nose first into the ground 2.2meters below. The front left of the vehicle struck the asphalt driveway (Event 2) behind a large chain store and then the vehicle rolled over to the left one-quarter turn landing on its left side (Event 3). The vehicle then skidded on its left side southeast toward the back of the store. The front windshield struck a dumpster (Event 4) and pushed it into the side of the building. The vehicle came to rest facing south on it's left side approximately 90 meters southeast of where it had departed the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

V1, the Jeep Cherokee Sport, was driven by a 20-year old male who was coded with incapacitating injuries and transported to a hospital. The driver later reported that he remembered driving from home to work and that he was traveling about 105kph/65mph in lane one. He said he never realized he was about to crash and that he took no avoidance actions and did not remember leaving the roadway. The back of the jeep was cut off in order to extricate the driver.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded “this vehicle traveling off the right edge of the roadway”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded “driver related other physical impairment of the ability to act”. The driver told the researcher and hospital personnel that he had a history of epileptic seizures. He told the hospital he was taking medicine for seizures (see medical report) but told the researcher he was not taking it at the time of the crash. He said he thought he blacked out because that was all he could remember. An associated factor was assigned to V1 for driver condition was fatigued due to long work hours and lack of sleep. Another factor was assigned for driver physical health due to his history of epilepsy and because he said he had a cold. A factor was assigned for driver performance/experience, emotional, he was in a hurry because he was late for work and working extended shifts caused him stress. A factor was also assigned for vehicle condition. The vehicle had oversized custom tires and wheels, custom seats, steering wheel, bumpers and suspension system.