The crash occurred at the intersection of a two-way, five-lane, straight, level, urban roadway with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph), and a driveway from a gas station. The driveway was two-way, two-lanes, bituminous, straight and had a greater than 2 percent positive slope for exiting vehicles. Conditions at the time of the weekday morning crash were sleeting and the bituminous roadway was wet and the driveway was icy.

V1, a 1989 Ford Taurus 4 door sedan driven by a 40 year-old male on his way home, was exiting the gas station and turning left onto the roadway. The driver stated that he did not stop on the uphill driveway because it was icy. He slowed, checked traffic left, right, and then pulled out to turn left. The left side of V1 was struck by the front of V2 in lane two of the roadway. The driver never saw V2 and took no avoidance actions. V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest facing east in the mouth of a driveway on the west side of the road. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver and front right 52 year-old male passenger denied injuries at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2, a 2002 Honda Civic LX 2 door sedan driven by a 25 year-old male on his way from home to class, was northbound on the road in lane two. The driver stated that he was traveling about 35 mph, passed through an intersection, and V1 pulled out in front of him as he approached the driveway from a gas station. The driver of V2 braked just prior to the impact. V2 rotated counterclockwise after the impact and came to rest facing southwest in the mouth of the driveway on the west side of the roadway. V2 was driven from the scene. The fully restrained driver denied injuries at the scene.

The Critical Pre-crash Event coded to the driver of V1 was 'this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection.' The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded was a 'driver related factor -recognition error-looked but did not see.' A contributing factor of 'environmental related factor-highway related-icy roadway' was coded. Associated factors of 'windshield condition of ice across bottom of windshield,' the driver's 'other' decision error to not stop at the top of the driveway and the weather (sleet) were also coded.

The Critical Pre-crash Event coded to the driver of V2 was 'other vehicle encroachment from driveway turning into opposite direction.' The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to this driver include 'strenuous recreational activities' due to running 1.5 hours two days prior to the crash, the wet roadway, and the weather (sleet).