This crash occurred on a 5-lane undivided roadway at an intersection of an undivided 2-lane roadway. The north/south roadway was straight asphalt with an uphill grade of four percent in the northbound direction. The posted speed limit was 80 kmph (50 mph). The east/west roadway was also straight had had a downhill grade in the westbound direction. The posted speed was 72 kmph (45 mph). The east/west roadway was controlled by stop signs; the north/south roadway had no traffic control device. Both roadways were dry. The weather was cloudy and overcast. The crash occurred mid week in the early evening while still daylight.

V1 was a 1993 Buick LeSabre 4-door sedan. V1 was traveling west in lane one and came to a stop at the intersection. V1 then pulled out into the intersection, intending to turn left to travel southbound on the intersecting roadway. V2 was a 1999 Ford Taurus 4-door sedan that was traveling northbound in the second lane of travel. As V1 pulled into the intersection, the front of V2 struck the left rear of V1. This impact sent V1 into a counterclockwise rotation, and it came to rest facing northeast across lanes 1 and 2 of the southbound roadway. V2 rotated counterclockwise to final rest facing northwest for final rest. Both drivers were checked out by EMS personal on scene but refused transportation to a local trauma unit. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 17-year-old male drove V1. He reported being in good health and not taking any medications. He also stated he does not wear corrective lenses. He stated that he had left home and was on his way to football practice at the time of the crash. He stated he was traveling in lane one of the westbound roadway. He reported that as he came to the intersection the lanes widened and he came to a stop to check traffic. He stated there were vehicles on the southeast corner that were for sale and sitting in a spot so as he could not really see oncoming traffic. He stated after checking traffic to his right he thought the roadway was clear and started his left turn. As he pulled into the intersection he saw the northbound vehicle (V2) and he panicked and applied the brake then accelerated and tried to move out of the way. He said he was contacted at the left rear side of his vehicle, coming to final rest in the southbound lanes. He stated he was not injured in the crash.

A 34-year-old male drove V2. He reported being in good health except for high blood pressure, for which he was taking a prescription medication. He also stated that he does not wear corrective lenses. He reported that he was on his way home from work and that he was traveling north in lane 2 of the northbound roadway. He stated he could see the vehicle at the intersection (V1) and as it started a left turn it then stopped, so he moved to the left turn lane on his roadway to avoid contact with the turning vehicle. He stated the vehicle then continued with its turn so he swerved back towards his original lane, hoping to go around the turning vehicle but the driver stopped in his path and he contacted the left rear side of the vehicle. He pushed it to rotate counterclockwise to final rest in the southbound lanes. He stated his vehicle rotated counterclockwise to face northwest for final rest. He also stated he felt very sore but did not want to go to the local ER unit to be seen.

A witness who was traveling southbound stated that she saw V1 stop at the stop sign, enter the intersection, and then stop again. She stated that the driver of V1 appeared to be looking to his left, directly at V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for Vehicle 1 was coded this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded driver related factor - inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). The associated factors coded to this driver include a sight restriction caused by parked vehicles on the southeast corner and driver inexperience.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for Vehicle 2 was coded other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into opposite direction. The Critical Reason for Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factor coded to this driver was the use of prescription medication to control high blood pressure.