The crash occurred on an interesting roadway that connects two major intestate roadways. There were three lanes running southbound with both right and left side paved shoulder and 2 concrete barrier walls. The conditions were dry and clear on a weekday night. The roadway was straight and level. The posted speed was 88KPH (55mph).

V1 was a 2005 Ford Escape SUV that was traveling in lane three going the speed limit. The driver was a 52-year-old male who was on his way home when a phantom vehicle cut into his lane from lane two. The driver of V1 hit the brakes and steered to the left losing control and hit the left concrete barrier wall to avoid hitting the phantom vehicle. After V1 hit the left concrete wall V1 bounced off the wall and headed across lanes two and one then hitting V2, a 2006 Toyota Camry that was traveling southbound in lane one. After making contact with V2, V1 then continued into the right concrete barrier wall. After he hit the right concrete wall he bounced off and made final rest sideways facing west in lane three. Both vehicles were towed due to damages and the driver of V1 was transported to the hospital with injuries. It should be noted that in the PAR there was V1 listed as actually hitting the phantom vehicle. Due to my findings through the interview and the vehicle inspection I believe the phantom never actually hit V1. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 stated that he was just driving along in lane three when the phantom vehicle cut into his lane. In order to avoid a collision he steered to the left and hit his brakes. These evasive actions caused his vehicle to lose control and depart off the roadway to the left hitting the left concrete barrier wall. He was bounced off the wall and went across all three lanes of traffic then making contact with V2 that was in lane one, until he hit the right side concrete wall. The driver was transported due to a leg injury.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was “this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was a driver related factor, “too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others - was cut off by another vehicle”. This evasive action is what caused V1 to depart the roadway. There were no associative factors related to this driver.

The driver of V2 was a 54-year-old woman who was driving southbound in lane one when she saw V1 hit the left concrete barrier wall and come across the lanes of traffic. She stated in her interview that she started to slow down when she saw V1 hit the wall because she didn't want him to hit her. She stated that she slowed down but he was coming right at her front end. He hit her front end and then continued into the right concrete wall bouncing off making final rest in the middle of the lanes. She was not injured but her vehicle was towed due to damages.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was this vehicle was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason for V2 was not coded, as she was not involved in the first harmful event. She was not thought to have contributed to the crash. There were no associative factors related to this driver.