This two-vehicle crash occurred at a four-leg intersection with traffic lights. The road from west to east is a 4-lane divided asphalt roadway. The road from north to south is a three lane (one-way traffic) asphalt roadway. The speed limit for the roadway is 54 kmph (35 mph) for the north-south direction. The road surface was wet but there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash. It was evening hours on a weekend and there was little to no traffic on the roadways. It was dark but the streets were lighted.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Chevrolet Venture with three occupants, was traveling south in the first lane of traffic. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Ford Focus with one occupant was traveling south in the second lane. V1 was ahead of V2. V1 attempted to change from the first lane into the second lane of the southbound lanes of traffic. The right front corner of V2 impacted the left side of V1. V2 rotated counter clockwise after the impact, and moved southeast. V2 came to rest off the roadway in the southeast corner of the intersection, facing southeast. V1 came to rest in lane 2 facing southeast. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A witness was traveling south in lane 2 of the roadway. He stated V2 was passing him on his right and changing into lane 2 prior to the intersection. V1 was traveling ahead of both vehicles in lane 1. V2 was traveling at an estimated speed of 64 kmph (40 mph). The witness saw the blinker of V1 on and was sure the driver took a look into the side mirror before he changed lanes. The driver of V2 stated at the scene she was traveling in lane 1 and could not tell from which direction V1 came. The driver of V1 did not describe the events at all. He stated he was stopped at the red light and proceeded when the light turned green.

A 26-year old male drove V1, the 1997 Chevrolet Venture. He did not speak English. He was interviewed with the assistance of the driver of V2. He would not say what happened. He stated he was in lane 1, stopped at the red light. He entered the intersection after the light changed to green. He was heading from his sister's residence located near the crash site to his own home. His residence was located out of town.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling-over the lane line on the left side of travel lane. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

An 18-year old female drove V2, the 2000 Ford Focus. She stated she was in the first lane, traveling at a normal rate of speed. The light turned green when she approached the intersection. She did not slow down but proceeded through the intersection after she had changed lanes to the number two lane. She said she never saw V1 coming from any direction. She was heading back from work to her residence. She is a student who attends college during the week and works a total of 13 hours on weekends. Her job site is located out of town.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment-from adjacent lane (same direction) - over right lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.