This two-vehicle crash occurred on a curbed median-divided, straight trafficway. The westbound lanes are level and consist of two through lanes. The speed limit for this roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions. This roadway was under construction and lane two was closed west of the crash area.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1992 Chevrolet S10 Blazer, was westbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Chrysler Pacifica, was westbound in lane two behind V1. V1 came to a stop and the back was struck by the front of V2. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1 and 0 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-year-old female, was traveling from one work site to another work site. She was talking to her fifty-three-year-old female passenger. This driver has multiple sclerosis and takes the medications Trileptal, Tysabri and Zyrtec. She was well rested and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. She travels this route weekly. This driver stated that she had to "brake hard" when the traffic in front of her stopped for the lane closure.

The driver of V2, a nineteen-year-old female, was traveling with an eighteen-year-old female and two young children. They had stopped at a fast food restaurant and were on their way to a mall. This driver was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle and passengers. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that when she realized that V1 was stopping, she tried to change lanes to the right but that lane was not clear. At the last minute, this driver applied the brakes and steered to the left in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was "not coded to this vehicle."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; other vehicle stopped." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate evasive action." This driver's distraction (talking to her passenger) was an associated factor in this crash.