This single vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane asphalt county road. This roadway runs north to south with various curves. The posted speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during mid-afternoon daylight hours with no adverse weather and no obvious defects. Traffic was very light since there were no witnesses.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Chevrolet Malibu sedan, was southbound when this vehicle exited the right road edge, rode up a sloping embankment then slid left and impacted a drainage stem wall with its left lower sill. V1 then rotated counter-clockwise and rolled one quarter right coming to rest on its right side heading in an easterly direction. A sixty nine (69) year-old female driver was belted in and injured. She was extracted from the vehicle by rescue personnel and transported to a local hospital. At this hospital it was determined that there was internal bleeding and she was air transported to a trauma center where she expired a few days later. V1 was towed from the scene and no driver interview was obtained due to the driver passing away about two days after the crash. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1.

According to her son, the driver was going from her house on an errand to another relatives home. The distance driven at the time of the crash was approximately 15 kilometers (9 miles). He stated the driver was in fair health and had the following medical conditions: high blood pressure, high glucose, and high cholesterol. He was unsure of what medications she takes but did state that she takes them in addition to wearing corrective lenses. The son indicated the driver was well rested with her normal sleep of 10 hours per night. She drives the route weekly and is comfortable with driving the vehicle. He indicated the vehicle was in good mechanical working order prior to the crash.

According to the police report, a witness who was traveling behind V1 observed that it had it's right turn signal on and appeared to be making a right turn prior to departing the right side of the roadway. The police report further indicates that the on-scene Fire/EMS reported to the officer that prior to road departure the driver had suffered a heart attack and that her blood sugars were unsafe. According to information the researcher received from the Fire/EMS at the scene, the driver told EMS that the last thing she remembered was driving the vehicle some 15 kilometers (9 miles) away, which would have been at the beginning of the trip according to the son's distance estimation. EMS measured her glucose reading at the scene at 400 mg/dl. Readings between 70-180 mg/dl is considered within the normal range. Medical records indicate the driver was retired. These records indicate the driver had been taking medications at home: Lasix, Diovan, Aciphex and an unspecified cholesterol medication.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the roadway on the right side. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act. Based on the information available, the driver experienced a diabetic (hyperglycemic) blackout or seizure; or had a heart attack and was no longer in control of her vehicle.