The crash occurred on the ramp from a north bound state highway to an eastbound interstate highway. There were two lanes on the ramp. The ramp curved to the right radius of curvature of 417 m with a super-elevation of 4% and an uphill slope of 4% to the east. The posted speed limit was 72 kph (45 mph) and an advisory speed limit of 56 kph (35 mph). The ramp was wet asphalt and the crash occurred while it was raining just before dawn (dark and unlit) on a weekend morning.

V1, a 1997 Subaru Legacy, four-door with one occupant was eastbound in lane one on the ramp traveling about 56 kph (35mph). V1 drove off the road on the left side and across and up a grassy embankment between the ramp and the eastbound interstate highway. The vehicle's front left struck the back side of the guardrail on the south edge of the interstate (Event 1) and then veered to the right down a steep grass embankment. It then hit the top of a vertical wall at the top of a concrete embankment with its undercarriage (Event 2). That embankment lead downhill to the road that crossed under both the interstate highway and the ramp that V1 had departed. At approximately the same time as Event 2 the vehicle's gas tank was ruptured resulting in a fire (Event 3) that eventually consumed the vehicle. From that point V1 rolled longitudinally onto its left side making contact with the concrete embankment at the left A-pillar and rotating in a clockwise manner. After four quarter turns the vehicle landed on its wheels as it struck a 92cm concrete pillar at the base of the embankment with the left front corner. The vehicle spun in a clockwise rotation and came to rest facing east on the sidewalk on the west side of the roadway below the ramp. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

V1, the Subaru Legacy, was driven by a 19-year old male who was coded as not injured. He was not transported although he told researcher he had burned his left arm slightly while he was climbing out of the vehicle. He reported that he was on his way to work and that the rain made the roads slick. He said his vehicle began to hydroplane as he was negotiating the curve and it skidded off the road on the left before it struck the guardrail at the top of the embankment and then rolled down the second embankment. He was uncertain when his vehicle caught fire.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was driver related too fast for curve. Associated factors were assigned to V1 for driver behavior, combination insufficient steering and braking, too fast fro conditions, reason unknown, and for the rainy weather and wet highway.