Case 2007-147

The crash occurred on a north/southbound undivided two lane roadway with one lane in each direction and no shoulders. The asphalt road was dry, and level. It curved left and then right. There were no traffic control devices and the posted speed limit was 48kmph/30mph. The crash happened early on a weekday afternoon under clear skies and with light traffic flow. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

V1, a 1996 Ford Econoline 350 cargo van with one occupant and carrying approximately 1000 pounds of cargo was traveling north in lane one when it veered off the right side of the road with the right side wheels traveling approximately 50m in a roadside drainage ditch parallel to the roadway. The right front wheel struck the south edge of a driveway (Event 1) causing the vehicle to rollover longitudinally to the left side (Event 2). The vehicle then continued skidding on its left side for another 20m where it came to rest straddling lane one and the right side of the road facing north.

V1, the Ford van, was driven by a 51-year old male who received non-incapacitating injuries and was transported to a hospital. The driver reported that as he was driving from home to a job site he was traveling approximately 32kmph/20mph when his cell phone rang and he glanced down at it. He added that he felt the right side tires go off the right edge of the road. He said he first accelerated and tried to steer back left and then was forced to brake in an unsuccessful attempt to regain control of the vehicle. He added that he did not feel a cargo shift and that the ditch caused the vehicle to roll over to the left.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was driver related internal distraction (the ringing phone). Associated factors were assigned to V1 for driver physical health, other - due to presence of a bad back and high blood pressure and a medication; for driver behavior, recognition, driver inattention, other - he was looking at the phone; and for other non-driving activities - he was focused on the phone; for driver performance, emotional, work related stress; for other, vehicle, tire/wheel deficiency (under-inflated rear tires); and for other, highway - narrow roadway with no shoulders.