The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a two-way, six-lane roadway, which was divided by a concrete curbed median. There were three northbound lanes, with a posted speed of 72 kmph (45 mph). This was a straight, level, asphalt roadway. Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 2003 Toyota Tundra pickup with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane three. V1 was towing an empty landscaping trailer. V2, a 2001 Ford Windstar minivan with three occupants, was also traveling northbound in lane three, ahead of V1. V2 came to a sudden stop due to traffic ahead. V1 did not stop in time. The front of V1 made contact with the back of V2. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1 and No PAR obtained (created) for V2.

V1, the Toyota Tundra, was driven by a 46-year old male who was not injured. He stated that he was on his way home from work. The motorist indicated that he didn't know why he hit the back of V2. He said that he hit the brakes, but just could not stop in time. When asked, the motorist declared that he was not distracted at the time of the crash, but acknowledged that he may have been following too close to the vehicle in front of him.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related recognition error, driver inattention. One associated factor for this driver was the presence of a pre-existing health condition. The driver takes 10mg of the prescription drug Norvasc once daily for high blood pressure. No additional associated factors were present for this driver.

V2, the Ford Windstar, was driven by a 24-year old female who was not injured. She could not be reached for interview. The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors could be determined for this driver due to lack of interview data.