This three-vehicle crash occurred on a divided, straight trafficway. Traffic in the crash area was congested and backed up from a traffic signal-controlled intersection. The southbound lanes have a downhill grade and consist of two through lanes. There are left turn lanes at driveways on this roadway. The speed limit on this roadway is 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Saturn SW1, was southbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Saturn Ion, was southbound in lane two in front of V1 and vehicle three (V3), a 2004 Jeep Wrangler was southbound in lane two in front of V2. V3 came to a stop due to the stopped traffic in front of it. The driver of V2 applied the brakes and decelerated. The front of V1 struck the back of V2. V2 was pushed forward and the front struck the back of V3. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1 and 0 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-seven-year-old male, was on his way to work from his home. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route weekly. This driver stated that he steered to the left and then applied the brakes (skidding longitudinally) in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The driver of V2, an eighteen-year-old female, was on her way from a friend's house to a bus stop. She was well rested, in good health and comfortable with her vehicle and her route. She stated that she was slowing in response to V3 stopping and never saw V1 prior to the crash.

The driver of V3, a forty-year-old female, was on her way to work after stopping at a bank. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route weekly. This driver stated that she stopped rather abruptly due to the traffic in front of her and never saw V1 or V2 prior to the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor; too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others - other vehicles abruptly slowing/stopping due to the rush hour traffic.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 was not involved first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was not coded to this vehicle.