This single vehicle, road departure occurred on a undivided five lane, two-way roadway. There are two westbound lanes and two eastbound lanes that are separated by a center two-way left turn lane. This was a straight level, bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). It was an evening crash with dark but lighted conditions. The road was dry and the sky was clear.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Chevrolet Trailblazer SUV with one occupant, was traveling westbound in the #1 lane. The vehicle began to drift across the roadway until it departed the left side of the roadway and struck a curb. The vehicle traveled on the sidewalk and onto a dirt area. The vehicle then began to rotate clockwise continuing to travel in a westerly direction. The driver began to steer the vehicle at this point. The vehicle then struck a street sign. The driver then steered the vehicle to the right, which caused the vehicle to rotate counterclockwise. The vehicle then struck a crosswalk control pole on the right front area. The right front tire then struck a concrete housing for electrical wires. The vehicle came to rest facing in a westerly direction with front tires on the sidewalk. The vehicle was towed due to damage. The driver did not report any injuries at the time of the crash. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1.

A sixty one (61) year old disabled male drove V1. He said that he was on his way home from the Disabled American Veterans (DAV) Hall. He said that while he was there, he drank three brandy's. He was driving westbound in the #1 lane at about 56-64 kmph (35-40 mph), when he lost steering to his vehicle. This forced his vehicle off the road until it struck a pole. He said that he tried to steer his vehicle but it would not respond. He said that the night before the crash, he was at the DAV hall and drank alcohol. He said that he got home about 2200 hours and went to bed 30 minutes later and woke up about 0800 hours on the day of the crash. He said that he was a little tired just before the crash. The driver said that he just bought his car about 3 weeks ago and put after market tires and wheels on it about 2 weeks ago.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side. The critical reason was coded as a driver related factor: sleeping, that is, actually asleep. An associated factor for this driver is that he had consumed alcohol just before the crash and the night before the crash. This impaired his ability to operate the vehicle that is normally required. An additional factor for this driver is that he takes medication Guaifenesin for allergies and Colchicine prescribed for gout..