This two-vehicle rear-end crash, occurred during daylight hours on a weekday immediately before a four-way intersection. The bituminous roadway consisted of five lanes and was physically divided without a positive median. There were three westbound lanes, which included a left-only turning lane and two eastbound lanes. The road was straight and had a downhill grade for westbound traffic. The posted speed limit was 56kmph (35mph) and the intersection was controlled by streetlights. There were no adverse atmospheric conditions other than clouds at the time of the crash, and traffic flow was normal.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Ford F-series, was westbound in lane two approaching the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Ford Windstar, was also heading west in lane two directly in front of V1. Vehicle two had come to a complete stop for the traffic signal. The front of V1 struck the rear of V2. Both vehicles moved slightly forward and came to final rest shortly after impact. The only vehicle that was towed from the scene due to damage was vehicle two. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a 51 year-old male, was not injured as a result of the crash and did not require any medical attention. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. After numerous attempts, an interview with this driver could not be obtained. It is therefore unknown if any fatigue or health related factors contributed to this crash.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was: other motor vehicle stopped in traffic lane. The Critical Reason was coded as: unknown recognition error. No other associated factors were coded for this vehicle.

The driver of vehicle two, a 33 year-old female suffered non-incapacitating injuries to her neck, back, and chest, and was taken to a medical facility for treatment. There were two other occupants in the vehicle at the time of the crash. A 3 year-old female who was secured in a child seat in the middle-second row, suffered unknown injuries and was taken to the hospital for observation. Also present, was a 58 year-old female in the right-second row that suffered unknown injuries and was taken to the hospital for observation as well. A complete interview was obtained from this driver. She relayed that she had been stopped at the red light for a minute or more before the other vehicle struck her from behind. She claimed that she heard screeching (although there were no tire marks on the road) and turned her head to try and locate the source. She was looking left when she was hit from behind; therefore she was not anticipating the impact. The driver claimed that she was in good health, and was not fatigued when the crash occurred. She was familiar with the roads, and said her vehicle was in good working condition.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction at higher speed. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No other associated factors were coded to this vehicle.