The crash occurred in the middle of an intersection where a single lane westbound street intersected with a two lane, north/southbound street. Both bituminous streets were straight and had posted speed limits of 42 kmph (25 mph). The northbound lane of the north/south street had a downhill grade of more that 2% and the westbound street had an uphill grade of more than 2%. The only traffic control devices at the intersection were two stop signs for westbound traffic, one on the southeast corner and one on the southwest corner. Traffic on the north/south street was not required to stop before proceeding through the intersection. It was a dark weekend night, and traffic flow was very light.

V1, a 2001 GMC Yukon Denali, was traveling northbound in the only travel lane. V2, an unknown large Chevrolet utility van was traveling westbound in lane one, the only travel lane. V2 entered the intersection from V1's right side. V1 engaged the anti-lock brake system but was unable to stop in time. V1, with its front, struck the left side middle section of V2. Upon impact V2 rotated in a counterclockwise motion and came to a stop facing the southwest corner. V1 proceeded approximately 1.5 meters and came to its final rest. V2 remained operational, and V1 sustained disabling damage and was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the 2001 GMC Yukon Denali, was driven by a 24-year old female and carrying one passenger. V1 driver had already been transported to an emergency room upon researcher's arrival and a complete driver survey was conducted at the emergency room within four hours after the crash. V1 driver advised that she was on her way to a friend's house to drop off her passenger, her son, and then go out with friends. V1 driver stated that she drives the northbound street "everyday" and that she did see V2 approaching the intersection but stated that she knew that V2 was required to stop. When V1 driver saw that V2 was not stopping for the stop sign she immediately applied the brakes and skidded into the left side of V2. V1 driver advised that she was in excellent health and that she had not been engaged in any non-driving activities. The integrity of the V1 driver survey must be questioned because V1 driver stated on the night of the crash that she had a valid driver's license, and it was learned that V1 driver was driving with a suspended license. (Driver was cited accordingly). Researcher later phoned V1 driver in hopes of learning more about the crash details, but V1 driver hung up the phone, refusing to participate any further in the driver's survey.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was: other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street across path. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to V1. Associated factors coded to V1 driver were a tire deficiency: all four tires of V1 were under inflated, and operating a motor vehicle with a suspended license.

V2, the Chevrolet van (unknown model), was driven by a 56-year old male who was present at the crash scene. V2 driver first advised that he did stop for the stop sign and that he never saw V1. V2 driver had been driving for over thirty years and stated that he was in fine health. During the driver survey, and when trying to learn why V2 driver was unable to see V1, V2 driver became agitated and abruptly stated that he had answered enough questions. V2 driver then refused to allow his vehicle to be inspected, and after exchanging information with V1 driver's mother, V2 driver got into his vehicle and left the scene. Later attempts to locate V2 for a complete set of photographs, and to learn what year and model van this Chevrolet was, were unsuccessful. The police report did not include the vehicle identification number, or the model or model year for V2.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was: this vehicle traveling, passing through an intersection. The Critical Reason was: a driver related factor, inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see.) Though very little was known about V2 or V2 driver, V2 driver did advise that he did not see V1.