This four-vehicle crash occurred in the early afternoon hours on a weekday. The crash took place on a two-way, two-lane, not physically divided roadway. The bituminous roadway was dry and straight with a negative slope for westbound traffic. There were no traffic control devices associated with this stretch of roadway. The posted speed limit for the roadway was 56kmph (35mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash and traffic flow was normal.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 Lincoln Continental, was heading west on the roadway in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Cadillac Deville, was heading east on the roadway in lane one intending to continue straight. Vehicle three (V3), a 2006 Jeep Liberty was heading east on the roadway in lane one behind V2 intending to go straight. Vehicle four (V4), a 2002 Volvo S60 was also heading east on the roadway in lane one behind V3, intending to continue straight. V1 crossed over into the opposite lane of traffic and struck the left side of V2. V2 came to final rest shortly after the impact on the right side of the roadway facing east. After the initial impact V1 had deflected off of V2 and continued straight still in the opposite lane of travel. V4's front left contacted V3's back right corner. This sent V3 into a counter-clockwise spin. V1's front then contacted V3's right front passenger door. V3 then continued to spin in a counter-clockwise motion and came to final rest on the right side of the roadway facing west. V1 rotated clockwise in the lane after being struck by V3. V4 came to final rest shortly after impact in the eastbound lane. V1 came to final rest in the eastbound lane facing north. All four vehicles had to be removed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a 76 year-old male, suffered injuries including but not limited to a cervical fracture and was taken to a medical facility for treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A surrogate interview was obtained for the driver of this vehicle. It was revealed that the driver had passed out while behind the wheel. This is what caused him to veer into oncoming traffic. The surrogate claimed that the driver was in good physical condition, however, he was taking unknown medication for his cholesterol and blood pressure. The medicals revealed that he was intoxicated when the crash happened his blood alcohol was .174. He also tested positive for opiates. It was also disclosed that the driver was only driving this leg of the trip for a short while before the crash occurred. The driver hadn't participated in any strenuous physical activity and there were no concerns. According to the surrogate the vehicle was in proper working condition.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was: “this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the left side of travel lane”. The Critical Reason was coded as: “heart attack or other physical impairment of the ability to act”. A couple of associated factors coded to this vehicle were driver fatigue and the presence of alcohol .174.

The driver of V2, an 87 year-old woman, suffered injuries to her left knee as a result of the crash and was taken to a medical facility for treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A partial interview was obtained from this driver. She relayed that he had noticed vehicle one swerving approximately two blocks ahead. She pulled off to the right side of the road as far as she could go. She said that vehicle one had headed straight for her and there was nothing she could do. She claimed that her health was in fair condition, but nothing that would interfere with her driving. She hadn't been driving too long and her vehicle was in good condition. She was not in a hurry and was well rested.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was: “other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no other associated factors coded for this vehicle.

The driver of V3, a 59 year-old male, did not suffer any injuries as a result of the crash and did not require any medical treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. After numerous attempts, an interview could not be obtained from this driver. It is therefore unknown if any fatigue or health related issues contributed to this crash.

There was no Critical Precrash Event coded for this vehicle because it was not involved in the first harmful event. Therefore, no Critical Reason was coded for this vehicle. No other associated factors were coded for this vehicle.

The driver of V4, a 42 year-old male, was not injured as a result of the crash and did not require any medical attention. There was one other occupant in the vehicle located in the right front seat that also did not suffer any injuries. No Critical Precrash Event or Critical Reason was coded for this vehicle. No other associated factors were coded for this vehicle.