The crash occurred in the westbound lanes of a two-way main roadway. The main roadway has two travel lanes and a left-turning lane in the westbound direction and three travel lanes and one left turn lane in the eastbound direction. The one-way service lanes off the main roadway are divided by a curb grass median in both directions. This was a straight, level, and bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 48kmph (30mph). It was the afternoon hours of a weekday, and it was raining and the roads were wet.

V1, a 2004 Chevrolet Impala four door, with two occupants was traveling eastbound in lane three. V2, a 2007 Toyota Camry four door with one occupant was traveling westbound in lane one. V3, a 2003 Ford E-Series van was traveling westbound in lane two. A Non-contact vehicle traveling eastbound in lane two attempted to merge into lane three in front of V1, and the driver of V1 attempted to avoid contact with the Non-contact vehicle by steering left and braking. The driver of V1 lost control and spun counter-clockwise across the intersection and into the westbound lane, where the back of V1 contacted the left side of V2, and then the front of V3 impacted the left side of V1. All vehicles came to a final rest shortly after the point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Chevrolet Impala, was driven by a 36 year-old male who reported no injuries. A 36 year-old female occupant also reported no injuries. The driver advised that he was coming from dropping his kids at the babysitter's and driving his wife to a doctor's appointment. He advised that he was driving in lane three when he made the evasive action to avoid contact with a Non-contact vehicle that was changing lanes. He successfully avoided the non-contact vehicle, but lost control and then he impacted V2, and then V3.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V1 was "this vehicle control loss due to poor road conditions". The Critical Reason for the Critical event was a “too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others”. A decision factor coded to the driver was that he was traveling too fast for conditions, and he did not realize that caution was required. The rain was coded as a roadway factor, wet roads. The driver was also treated for sleep apnea, and received his last treatment a year and a half ago. He also has a pulmonary hypertension condition, which he takes three prescribed medications (Coumadin, Digoxin, and Lasix), and wore eyeglasses that corrected a myopic condition.

V2, the Toyota Camry was driven by a 32 year-old female who reported no injuries. She stated that she was approaching the intersection in lane one, when she realized that V1 was spinning out of control and coming towards her vehicle. She attempted to brake without lockup, and steer to the right but could not avoid V1.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction - over left lane line". The Critical Reason for the Critical event was not coded to this vehicle. The associated factors were a weather factor, the rain and a roadway factor, wet roads.

V3, the Ford E-Series van was driven by a 42 year-old male who reported no injuries. He advised that he was traveling westbound on lane two when he saw V1 spinning out of control, so he stopped but V1 impacted his front bumper.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event; therefore no Critical Pre-crash Event or Critical Reason was coded to the driver of the E-Series Van. The only associated factors coded to this driver were a weather factor because it was raining, and a roadway factor, the wet roads.