This two-vehicle crash occurred during the early afternoon daylight hours .The location was a T-intersection with a busy inter-city arterial. Both sides of the arterial are lined with commercial business' with numerous driveways. The north/south roadway is a level bituminous five lane, two way, and undivided arterial with no traffic controls. The road was dry,and there were no sight restrictions. The east/west roadway is a two lane, two way street with no centerline and a stop sign posted at the intersection. The posted speed limit for westbound traffic was 40 kmph (25 mph). The posted speed limit for northbound traffic was 64 kmph (40 mph).

Vehicle one (V1) was a 2000 Mercury Sable LS sedan driven by an unlicensed fifteen (15) year old male. V1 was stopped at the stop sign westbound waiting for traffic to clear to turn left to head southbound. Vehicle two (V2) was a 1984 Nissan Maxima sedan driven by a forty eight (48) year old male. V2 was traveling northbound in the inside lane approaching the intersection. The driver of V1 stated he saw V2 approaching northbound at a high rate of speed, but thought he had time to make his turn. V1 pulled forward across the northbound lanes and was struck in the left side by V2. V2 came to rest near the area of impact. V1 was moved from final rest and parked next to the curb facing east on the north side of the side street. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at the intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was attributed to V1 as a driver related factor: misjudgment of gap or other's speed. An associative factor for the driver of V1 was inexperience, since he had only 2 months of driving experience. He was on his way home from shopping at a nearby shopping center.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into

opposite direction. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.