This two-vehicle crash occurred at a four-legged intersection. Northbound approach was a sharp left curve with an uphill +3.6% grade, it started out with one lane then 33 meters (108 feet) prior to the intersection a left turn lane began. Southbound approach was straight with an downhill -2.5% grade. Their was a two-way, two-lane intersecting road from the east controlled by a stop sign. The intersecting west road was two-way divided by a large grass median with no traffic control devices present. Both roads were bituminous asphalt with a posted speed limit of 40 kph (25 mph). Setting was early afternoon hours on a weekday. Conditions were daylight, clear, dry with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle 1 was a 2000 Dodge Grand Caravan, minivan, traveling northbound in lane two, the left turn lane with one occupant. Vehicle 2 was a 2002 Mitsubishi Montero Sport, compact utility, traveling southbound in lane one with one occupant. As VI approached the intersection, it intended on turning left into the entrance of a shopping center. VI focused its attention toward the actions of a driver stopped at a stop sign from the east roadway. VI then proceeded to make its left turn without checking on-coming traffic again. The front right corner of VI was struck at an angle by the front of V2 who was intending on going straight through the intersection. V2 had no time to apply the brakes or make any other avoidance maneuvers. There were no tire marks present at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

The driver of VI, an 18 year-old male, reported no injuries in the crash. He was on his way to his old high school to visit some friends. He had just graduated from a military academy and wanted to see his old friends. He reported driving straight, then as he approached the intersection to turn left, he looked right at a car stopped at the stop sign. He wanted to make sure they weren't going to pull out in front of him. He had slowed to almost a stop. He then started to turn left while accelerating before he looked straight ahead again. When his eyes returned back straight he saw V2 coming head on toward him. He thinks he hit the brakes, but says he only had 1-2 seconds to respond. His estimated impact speed was 8-16 kph (5-10 mph). His vehicle suffered disabling front right corner damage and was towed from the scene.

The Critical Pre crash Event for VI was "this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the critical event was an "External Distraction"- a driver error. This driver told me his attention was focused on the vehicle to his right stopped at a stop sign instead of watching on-coming traffic. This driver was not licensed. He only had six month's driving experience prior to the crash. He reported only driving this roadway a few times. He appeared to be nervous about what the other road user's were doing. Possibly his inexperience with driving that intersection contributed to his nervousness. The front tire lacked adequate tread depth and were under-inflated. The left rear tire lacked adequate tread depth and the right rear lacked tire pressure.

The driver of V2, a 34 year-old female, reported evident injuries in the crash. She works in a health care facility and was on her way from work to pick up her daughter at high school for a doctor's appointment. She reported driving straight ahead at 40 kph (25 mph). She noticed VI in the opposing left turn lane waiting to turn left into the shopping center. She said another vehicle just pulled out of the shopping center in front of her going in her direction. She didn't think VI would turn in front of her. She didn't see him at first due to her watching the truck pulling out in front of her. She said all of a sudden VI started to proceed with its left turn. She only had one second to react, so she couldn't hit the brakes, she just closed her eyes and turned her head to the left. When she opened her eyes she was stopped in the intersection. Her vehicle was towed from the scene with front-end damage.

The Critical Pre crash Event fro V2 was " other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction-over left lane line." The Critical Reason was "not coded to this vehicle." VI turned left in front of V2, interrupting V2's straight travel path. She falsely assumed that VI would yield the right of way to her causing her to not be as prepared to make the proper evasive maneuvers. This driver has a history of migraines and vertigo and requires prescription medication to treat it. She also reported listening to the radio at the time of crash.