This one-vehicle crash occurred at dusk during a weekday on a two-way, two-lane roadway, which was not physically divided. The bituminous roadway was straight, dry, and level. There were no traffic control devices associated with this stretch of roadway. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash and traffic flow was normal.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Ford Focus, was heading north on the roadway, intending to continue straight. Vehicle one departed the right side of the road into some soft, loose soil, and could not return to the roadway safely. The front right of the vehicle made contact with a telephone pole. After the impact, the vehicle rotated counter clockwise approximately 90 degrees before coming to final rest in the roadway facing east. The vehicle had to be towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1, a 17 year-old female, suffered possible injuries as a result of the crash and was taken to a medical facility for treatment. There was one other occupant in the vehicle located in the front right passenger seat that was also taken to the hospital for treatment of possible injuries. A surrogate interview was conducted with the mother of the driver. It was relayed that the driver was in good health and that no physical related issues contributed to this crash. The driver had been taking antibiotics when the crash occurred. It was also revealed that the driver has a normal sleep pattern that had not changed in the days prior to the crash. The mother related that the driver had only been driving for a few minutes and that she was coming from a friend's house planning on going to get something to eat. The driver doesn't drive on the roadway often, but was not completely unfamiliar with her surroundings. There were no mechanical problems that contributed to this crash.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was: off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason was coded as: poor direction control, failure to control the vehicle with skill ordinarily expected. A couple associated factors coded to this driver were: inexperience, and road conditions (no shoulder or fog line).