The crash occurred in the westbound lanes of a two-way roadway with one lane in each direction. The roadway was a straight, level, and bituminous with a speed limit of 48kmph (30 mph). It was dark but lighted, and it was during the morning hours of a weekday. The traffic flow was congested, with stop and go traffic.

V1, a 2007 Toyota Yaris four door with two occupants was traveling westbound in lane one. V2, a 2003 Ford E-450 M/H Truck with two occupants was traveling in front of V1 in lane one. The front of V1 contacted the back of V2. V1 was towed due to vehicle damage. V2 was driven from scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Toyota Yaris, was driven by a 27 year-old female who reported no injuries. The 12 year-old female occupant also reported no injuries. She advised the Police that the driver of V2 stopped numerous times which caused her to rear-end V2. The driver declined to participate in the survey and refused to have her vehicle inspected.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V1 was "Other Motor Vehicle in Lane, other vehicle stopped". The Critical Reason for the Critical event was an unknown reason, because no interview was obtained. An Associated factor coded to the driver was the traffic flow interruption in the form of congestion with a stop-and-go traffic pattern. The other possible Associated factors were coded unknown.

V2, the Ford E450 Truck was driven by a 54 year-old male who reported no injuries. The 49 year-old male occupant also reported no injuries. The driver advised that he was traveling from a job site to another job site. The driver stated that he was stopped and waiting for traffic to move when he was rear-ended by V1.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V1 was "Other Motor Vehicle in Lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed". The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. An associated factor coded to the driver was a traffic flow interruption in the form of congestion with a stop-and-go traffic pattern. Another Associated factor was that the driver was conversing with his co-worker. No other associated factors were coded to the driver. V2 was driven off the scene at the researcher approached. The owner of the vehicle was not cooperative with scheduling a time and place to inspect V2.