This two-vehicle rear end crash occurred at the intersection of a seven-lane, divided, north/south roadway and a five-lane, divided, east/west roadway. For northbound traffic there are four travel lanes. Both roadways were straight, level, dry and of concrete construction. Overhead traffic control lights control traffic at the intersection. The posted speed limit is 64 kmph (40 mph). Traffic was light at the time of the crash. This crash occurred during daylight hours with clear skies.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Ford Escort with one occupant, was northbound in the second travel lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1990 GMC Sierra with one occupant, was northbound in the second travel lane ahead of V1. V2 slowed to stop for the red traffic light and the front of V1 impacted the back of V2. V1 and V2 came to rest facing north in the original lane of travel. V1 was towed due to damage. V2 did not sustain disabling damage and was driven from the scene. The driver of V1 was treated at the scene while the driver of V2 did not require medical attention. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, an eighty-six year old male, was heading to a parts store from home. This driver had been driving for about two minutes, drives the route monthly and is familiar with the vehicle. The driver stated he attempted to stop behind V1, but the vehicle unexpectedly accelerated. The driver mistakenly pressed the accelerator when he intended to apply the brakes. The driver had been following V2 for about half a mile.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle in lane-traveling in the same direction while decelerating. The critical reason for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: poor directional control. The driver mistakenly pressed the accelerator instead of the brake pedal. He was aware of the presence of V2 in front of him for some distance.

The driver of V2, a fifty-five year old male had just left a funeral home and was heading home. The driver had been driving for an unknown amount of time, was driving the route for the first time and is familiar with the vehicle. The driver had been making funeral arrangements for his mother and had his radio stolen while at the funeral home.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this veicle traveling-this vehicle decelerating. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. The driver's thoughts were pre-occupied after just leaving the funeral home.