This two-vehicle crash occurred in early morning daylight hours on a weekday at an intersection with traffic lights. Both roadways are undivided, straight and consist of two lanes in each direction. The speed limit for both roadways is 48 kmph (30 mph). The road surfaces were wet and there was steady rain at the time of the crash. There was moderate traffic on the roadways.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Buick Century, was traveling west in the first lane of traffic approaching the intersection of both roadways. Vehicle two (V2), a 2004 Toyota Tundra, was traveling north in the second lane. At the intersection, the front of V2 impacted the left side of V1. V1 rotated clockwise, traveled to the northwest and the front struck a utility pole in the northwest corner of the intersection. V1 came to rest at the pole. V2 rotated counterclockwise after the impact and came to rest within the intersection, facing northwest. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 30-year old male drove V1, the 2002 Buick Century. According to his own account he was traveling over the speed limit at 54 kmph (35 mph) on a wet roadway. He was heading from his home to his work at his normal everyday pace.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment: from crossing street, across path. The critical reason was not coded to this driver/vehicle. This driver's inadequate surveillance was an associated factor in this crash.

A 70-year old male drove V2, the 2004 Toyota Tundra. He stated he was in the second lane, approaching the intersection at a normal rate of speed. He was heading from his home to a social life type breakfast meeting. He was in no hurry and familiar with the area. He takes unspecified medication for a heart condition but is otherwise in good health. This driver stated that he did not see V1 prior to the crash.

The critical pre crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason was coded: driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see).