The crash occurred on an 8-lane divided roadway at an intersection with a 3-lane roadway and a private driveway. The crash occurred in the westbound lanes. The westbound section of the road curved slightly to the right and had a three percent downhill slope. The road was bituminous and dry. The posted speed limit was 48 kmph (30 mph). The crash occurred in the mid-afternoon on a weekday. Traffic flow was moderate, but there were several non-contact vehicles that were exiting out of a church parking lot.

V1, a 2004 Chevrolet Tahoe utility vehicle, was driven by a 29-year old male who was traveling alone. V1 was originally traveling in lane 1 heading westbound at an unknown speed. As he approached the intersection, the driver of V1 changed over into lane 2. V2, a 2003 Subaru Legacy 4-door sedan, was on the eastbound section of the intersection in the left turn-only lane waiting to make a U-turn. V2 began its U-turn and then stopped in the middle of the westbound roadway facing north. The driver of V1 saw V2 making the U-turn and then saw when it stopped in his path. The front of V1 struck V2 on its right side and then traveled off the right side off the road. It jumped the curb and traveled up onto an embankment that had a fence lining it. V1 struck the fence and then went down the embankment and re-entered the westbound roadway. The driver of V1 stated that he was traveling in lane 1 when he saw vehicles exiting out of the church parking lot into lane 1 so he decided to change to lane 2. He said as soon as he changed over into lane 2, V2 attempted to make a U-turn. He said she partially made a U-turn but for some reason stopped in the middle of it. He said he did not have time to react and struck V2. He lost control for a moment when he hit the curb and rode up on the hill. He said he finally stopped his vehicle once it partially re-entered the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V2 was driven by a 74-year old female. She stated that she had just come back from the pharmacy but she could not remember where she was headed next. She stated that she was sitting at the intersection waiting to make a U-turn. She said that there were a lot of cars coming out of the church and she was waiting. She said she did not really remember much after that. She stated that she just remembers spinning out of control and glass in her face and then the sirens. The force of the impact made her car spin and turn back the way she initially came and was sitting in the eastbound section of the intersection. The driver was transported due to possible injuries.

A witness was on a public bus that was slowly accelerating from a previous stop. She stated that she saw V1 "fly" pass her at a high rate of speed. She said she saw V2 trying to make a U-turn at the intersection. She said V2 stopped in the middle of the intersection and was struck by V1. She said V2 then hit the curb on the northwest corner of the intersection and then struck a box of clothes that the church leaves out for the homeless, turn around and it began rolling slowly in a southerly direction. She said she thought that whoever was in V2 was dead since the vehicle seemed to be moving with no one controlling it. She said she ordered the bus driver to let her exit the bus so she could stop the car. She stated other cars and onlookers just watched as the vehicle kept moving by itself while no one did anything. She stated that if no one stopped the vehicle from rolling, then the vehicles traveling in the eastbound section would have struck her again and probably killed her. She got off the bus and ran over to the car and noticed that the driver of V2 was unconscious. She said she opened the passenger door and put the vehicle in park. She then called EMS who gave her instructions to help the driver of V2 until help arrived. She stated that the driver of V2 had asked her what happened. She then told the driver to tell HER what happened to make sure she was coherent. She stated that the driver said that she was turning and that was when she felt the collision and broken glass.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction over left lane line." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to the driver include traveling too fast and a false assumption in that he thought the other driver would turn without stopping.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was a driver related error, inadequate surveillance (failed to look far enough ahead). An associated factor coded to this driver was the use of medication to control high blood pressure.

During scene investigation, it was noted that there were 2-3 incidents where similar crashes almost occurred. There is a high rate of U-turns at that intersection and they seem to putting the vehicles in a dangerous situation.