This two-vehicle crash occurred during the late morning hours of a weekday. The collision took place in a four-way intersection on an urban roadway. Both the east/west and north/south roadways were undivided two lane roadways with a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). On both roadways, parking was allowed on either side of the street. East and westbound traffic was controlled by stop signs while the north/south roadway had no traffic control device. The surface type for both roadways was that of bituminous asphalt. Both roadways were flat, wet, and level, without any indications of physical damage. Weather conditions were mainly cloudy with a light shower.

V1, a 1991 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, was traveling southbound in lane one of the roadway passing through an intersection. V2, a 1992 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan traveling westbound, failed to observe the stop sign and proceeded into the intersection. The front end of V1 struck V2 on its right side. After the collision, V1 veered right and came to a final rest with its front left tire resting on the southwest curb edge. After V2 was struck, the vehicle ended up reversing to final rest with the right rear tire resting on the northeast curb edge. V1 suffered moderate damage and had to be towed from the scene. The right front wheel of V2 became restricted and had to be towed from the scene. The driver of V1 did not suffer any injuries. The driver of V2 was transported by EMS to be evaluated. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 21 year-old male in generally good health, reported he was coming from home and on his way to work when the crash occurred. The driver reported traveling straight (southbound) when he saw the other vehicle (V2) coming into his path. The driver of V1 stated he didn't have time to react. The driver resides approximately four miles away from the accident scene and travels the road daily to get to and from work. The driver has been licensed to drive for fifteen months and reported that this was his first ever crash. The driver has prescribed eyeglasses (condition unknown) but was not wearing them at the time of the crash. Both the headlights and wipers were on prior the collision.

The driver of V2 was an 18 year-old female. An interview with the driver of V2 could not be obtained. The mother and sister of the driver related that the vehicle was totaled and that it had been sent out to get crushed (against their will).

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factors coded to this vehicle were the weather (rain) and the wet roadway.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was coded this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason was coded type of driver error unknown. Associated factors coded to this vehicle include an illegal maneuver, the weather (rain), and the wet roadway.