The crash occurred in the center of a four-way intersection composed of an undivided two-lane north/southbound roadway and an undivided two-lane east/westbound roadway. Both roadways were bituminous and level with a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The north/southbound roadway was controlled by stop signs on each corner. The east/west roadway had no traffic control device. It was afternoon on a weekday. The roads were dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was very light.

V1, a 2006 Chevrolet Colorado pickup with two occupants, was traveling north when it entered the intersection without observing the stop sign and was struck by V2 on the left side. V2, a 2001 Dodge Durango sport utility vehicle with two occupants, was traveling east. As V2 passed through the intersection it struck V1 on the left side. Neither vehicle made any avoidance maneuver. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 31-year-old female who was traveling with an 11-year-old female passenger. Both occupants reported head injuries and both were transported. The driver of V1 could not be located for an interview. Emergency personnel on scene stated that V1 proceeded into the intersection without stopping for the posted stop sign.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling-crossing over (passing through) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was an unknown driver error. The only associated factor that could be assigned to the driver of V1 was an illegal maneuver. No other factors could be coded due to the lack of interview.

V2 was driven by a 17-year-old male with a 16-year old male passenger. Both occupants claimed leg injuries; however, neither was transported. The driver of V2 stated that he was traveling at approximately 40 kmph (25 mph) as he entered the intersection, when V1 ran the stop sign and he struck V1 on the left side. The driver took no avoidance maneuver.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment-from crossing street, across path." No Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle. Two associated factors were assigned to the driver of V2 - conversation with his passenger and driver inexperience. The driver had only had his license for one month.