The crash occurred on a secondary arterial that ran east/west and was a two-way, two lane road. The crash area contained an S-curve with no advisory speeds. The westbound approach had a curve with a radius measuring 208 meters. The eastbound approach and the most relevant to this crash, (as the crash occurred near its apex) was a curve to the left/north with a radius of 255m and, was super-elevated to 3.1%. The road was in a residential area. The posted speed limit was 48kph (30mph) although the westbound approach was exiting a school zone and the eastbound approach had just left a 40mph zone. The crash occurred at about mid afternoon on a weekday. Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight and dry with moderate traffic mainly due to the proximity of the school zone.

V1 was a 2001 Chevrolet Silverado 4X4 pickup truck with an extended cab. It was traveling west on the secondary arterial when it crossed the centerline and struck with its front the front of V2 a 2005 Honda Accord that was traveling east on the road. It was a narrow impact and as the vehicles disengaged V1 traveled southwest off the left side of the road and struck a tree also with its front on the left side. V1 came to rest at the struck tree facing south. V2 then rotated counterclockwise and departed the road to its right at a driveway and struck a mailbox with its right side coming to rest at the north edge of the driveway, facing west. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a restrained twenty-seven year old male whose airbags did not deploy in the crash. He was bringing his daughter home from school at the time of the crash. She was a ten-year-old belted female in the right front seat who was injured and transported to an area hospital from the scene.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the left side of the travel lane. The Critical Reason was an internal distraction. The driver had turned to his left to look at his daughter while addressing her in conversation. He was praising a good test score. The driver was also attributed with poor directional control and failing to look far enough ahead.

V2 was driven by a twenty-seven-year -old male who was injured and transported to an area hospital. He was on a work related trip at the time of the crash. He did steer right in an attempt to avoid a collision.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment over left lane line from opposite direction. The Critical Reason was not attributed to this vehicle. The driver did claim to have some work related stress and only drove this road on a monthly basis. No other contributing factors were coded to this vehicle.