This crash occurred on an undivided two-lane east/west roadway at an intersection with a retail driveway. The driveway was on the north side of the east/west roadway. On the south side, there was an undivided two-lane roadway. The east/west roadway was a straight, level, and bituminous roadway with a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). It was mid-afternoon of a weekday and the roads were dry and the skies were clear. Traffic flow was steady.

V1, a 2002 Hyundai Santa Fe sport utility vehicle, was exiting the driveway intending on going straight. V2, a 1999 Chevrolet Express van, was traveling west in lane one intending on continuing straight. V1 backed out of the driveway slightly and then proceeded to turn around in order to safely exit the driveway traveling forward. She saw the other vehicle (V2) coming but felt that she would have enough time to make it across the roadway so she accelerated. However, she did not have enough time to make it across and was struck on the left side by the front of V2. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Hyundai Santa Fe, was driven by a 44-year-old female who reported a moderate injury and was treated on scene. She stated that she was exiting the dry cleaners and intended on going straight across the roadway. After she was facing in her direction of travel, she looked to either side. She saw V2 coming but thought that she would have enough time to safely cross and proceeded to accelerate. But she misjudged the speed of V2 and was struck by the vehicle.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling - crossing over (passing through) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as misjudgment of gap or other's speed. No other associated factors were coded to this driver.

V2, the Chevy Express van, was driven by a 37-year-old male who reported no injuries. The driver stated that he was traveling to work in lane one and intended on heading straight. He saw the V1 but thought she realized she did not have enough time to cross and did not slow down. As he got closer, she pulled out of the entranceway and he was unable to avoid the collision and struck her left side.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded as "Other motor vehicle encroachment - from crossing street, across path." No associated factors were coded to this driver.