This one-vehicle crash occurred during the afternoon hours of a weekend. The crash took place on an urban roadway prior to a four-way intersection. The undivided roadway had two lanes of travel with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The surface type for the roadway was primarily concrete, with bituminous asphalt towards the sides. The roadway had four separate trolley tracks, all located on both lanes of travel. The roadway was flat, dry, and level; there was no indication of any physical damage. Weather conditions were mainly clear.

V1, a 2006 Chevrolet Uplander minivan, was traveling southbound in lane one of the roadway. There was another vehicle ahead of V1 traveling at a slower speed. V1 proceeded to accelerate in an attempt to pass the other vehicle on its left side. In doing so, V1 lost control on the trolley tracks on the roadway. V1 departed the roadway on the left side and struck a non-breakaway pole with its front left. V1 suffered disabling damage and had to be towed away from the scene. There was full deployment of the driver side airbag. The driver of V1 was temporarily knocked out by the airbag but refused medical treatment. There were no other injuries reported to the driver of V1. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1, a 61 year-old male in generally good health, reported he was on his way home after visiting a relative in a nearby hospital when the crash occurred. He stated that there was a vehicle in front him that was traveling "too slow" and that he wanted to pass him. When doing so, the driver stated the trolley tracks on the roadway made him lose control of his vehicle. The driver was unable to attempt any avoidance maneuvers. From that point, the driver stated that the airbag deployed and knocked him out for a few seconds. When the driver was describing his attempt to pass the other motorist, the driver became a bit emotional in his description. A sense of aggression was displayed on the face of the driver as well as his tone. When asked if there were any thoughts or feelings of concern, the driver mentioned a recent passing of a family member that was on his mind. In addition, the driver admitted to listening to a football broadcast on the radio while he was driving. The driver was from out of state and reported rarely driving on the roadway. He took prescribed medication to treat high blood pressure. The driver was also cited for driving with a suspended license.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was coded as this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side. The Critical Reason was coded as a driver related factor, aggressive driving behavior. Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include inattention due to thinking about personal concerns, the use of prescription medication, unfamiliarity with the roadway, and the slippery condition of the roadway due to the trolley tracks.