This crash occurred at an intersection controlled by a traffic signal with pedestrian crossing controls. There were five lanes of travel for each intersection approach, two in each direction and a left turn lane. The roadway was straight, level, and asphalt surfaced. The speed limit was posted at 64 kmph (40mph). The weather was overcast and raining. It was mid week just after the noon hour. Vehicle 1, a 1999 Dodge Dakota, was traveling south in lane #2 and failed to stop for a red light. As V1 traveled into the intersection it was contacted on the front right side by vehicle 2, a 2006 Chevrolet Cobalt, that was just accelerating into the intersection in lane #2. V1 rotated counterclockwise to contact V2 which rotated clockwise, at the left rear of V2. V1 was contacted at the right rear. V 2 traveled south of the intersection and off the roadway onto the grass. V1 pulled to the side of the roadway. The driver got out of his vehicle to check the damage then got back into his vehicle and fled the scene. V1 was recovered two miles from the scene with the right front tire gone and the rim gone to the lug-nut area. The driver was witnessed running from his vehicle. V2 was towed from the scene due to damage. The driver was not injured in the crash.

. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 34 year-old female who that stated she was in good health and taking no medications drove V2. She also stated she was not wearing corrective lenses. She stated that she was a pre-school teacher and had left the school at lunchtime and was on her way to the library to find some books for her class. She also stated that while there she needed to do some paper work for her college class. She stated that after leaving her day care class she traveled east on the roadway in lane #2. She stated that coming to the intersection, the traffic light was red. She reported that after being stopped for a few seconds the light changed to green and that as she accelerated into the intersection her vehicle was struck and then rotated clockwise, contacting the other vehicle again, then traveling south out of the intersection and off the roadway on the west to final rest in the grass.

Witness #1 was deaf. He did his interview by writing notes. At a later time a signing person came to help with the interview. The witness stated he was in the southbound lane stopped at the intersection for a red traffic light. He stated that as the east and westbound traffic entered the intersection a black pick-up traveled past him entering the intersection contacting vehicle #2. He stated after the light changed to green he followed the black pick-up that was at that time fleeing the scene. He stated he followed it to the next intersection were it pulled into a gas station and pulled around the back and tried to air up its tire. He stated the driver then saw him watching and drove off in the southbound lane again. He followed it to where the driver got out of the vehicle and ran on foot. He did not see were the driver ran to so he drove back to the scene to let police know were the vehicle was.

Witness #2 was traveling north in lane #2 stating he had stopped for a red light. He stated he was looking straight ahead as he heard a load bang. He stated at that time the black pick-up was rotating and traveling in his direction. He stated the driver got the vehicle under control and pulled to the west curb. He stated that the driver got out of his vehicle looked at the damage got back into his vehicle and fled the scene. The witness stated he turned his vehicle around and followed the pick-up to the next intersection. He stated as he was entering the gas station the pick-up fled the gas station just missing his vehicle and just missed being hit by a semi truck that was traveling south in lane #1. The witness stated as he got back out onto the roadway he then thought he would not be able to find the pick-up but found the truck pulled off the roadway with no driver to be found in the area.

Witness #3 stated he was traveling east in lane 2 just behind V2. He stated that he and V2 sat at a stop for the full signal. He stated that after the traffic light changed to green V2 just sat there. He also stated that he saw the southbound pick-up entering the intersection. He also stated the pick-up looked as if it was trying to stop but could not. He stated as the pick-up came in front of V2, V2 started to accelerate and hit the right front side of the pick-up. They both rotated to hit again at the rear of each vehicle. He stated after final rest V1 fled the scene.

The critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The associated factors coded to this vehicle were the wet roadway and not yielding for the traffic light.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded this vehicle crossing over (passing through) intersection.. The Critical reason for the Critical Event was coded inadequate surveillance. The associated factors coded to this vehicle included driver inattention. She was thinking about things she wanted to get at the library not only for her class but the things she wanted to get for her college class. Inadequate surveillance was also coded since the driver sat for a few seconds before entering intersection and thus, had time to look to the side to see V1 entering the intersection.