Case Summary 2007-09-088

The crash occurred off the west side of a four-lane highway with the two southbound lanes divided from the two northbound lanes by a 13-meter wide grass and dirt strip. Shoulders bordered the southbound lanes with a rumble strip on the right shoulder. There was an embankment with a 21% downhill slope leading to a field on the west side of the southbound lanes. Adjoining the highway, on the west side, was an 2 meter inclining rock and dirt driveway with a 15 cm diameter drainage pipe running under the driveway protruding 10 cm north. This was a dry, level road with a right curve in the southbound direction and a posted speed of 89 kmph (55 mph). Traffic was light during the mid-morning hours on a weekday and the skies were cloudy. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

V1, a 2000 Suzuki Grand Vitara compact 4WD utility vehicle driven by a 37 year-old female traveling with the 20 year-old son of her boyfriend. The occupants had traveled 20 miles of their out-of-state journey when the crash occurred. The driver stated that she had been traveling in the southbound lane one at 93 kmph (58 mph), using cruise control, when she saw a boom truck (tractor with flatbed trailer hauling timber) a distance ahead stopped in lane one (her travel lane). Using her left side mirror, she checked the availability of lane two, although there was a vehicle in lane two, it was far enough behind her that she felt it would be safe to merge left. She initiated her intentions using the left turn indicator, rechecking her left side mirror, she discovered the vehicle previously located a distance back had sped up and was now blocking access into the left lane. At this point she had no other option except to veer right to avoid the boom truck. Instead of using the 3.3 meter wide paved shoulder, she braked hard, causing her vehicle to skid clock-wise, veering southwest 40 degrees, across the shoulder, down the embankment, across the corner of the field and crashing the front bumper and undercarriage of her vehicle, simultaneously, into elevated driveway and drainage pipe. V1 continued southwest, climbing the 2-meter incline onto the driveway and partially over the south side of the driveway before coming to rest. The driver was able to reverse V1 and steer east 4.5 meters before the engine died 4 meters west from the southbound highway. The driver was transported due to injuries and although the passenger was also injured, he refused to be transported.

A witness confirmed the driver's statement of events. The witness added the the other vehicle was a black Mustang driven by a female traveling at a rate of 121 kmph (75 mph) or greater.

The Pre-Crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side." The Critical Reason for the Pre-Crash Event was "Decision error, misjudgment of gap or other's speed." Associated factors for the driver include taking medications for back and stomach pain. Although the driver had grown up in this area, she had been living out-of-state for a number of years.