This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-way, traffic signal-controlled intersection. On the north and south sides of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a grassy median and the traffic lanes for each direction consist of a right turn lane, two through lanes, and a left turn lane. The southbound roadway is curved left and uphill; the northbound roadway is straight and level. The posted speed limit for this roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with morning rush hour congestion.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2000 Saturn with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane four, turning left at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Chevy Blazer with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane two and entered into the intersection at the same time. The front of V1 impacted the left side of V2, causing the left rear tire of V2 to blow out. V1 came to final rest at the approximate point of impact, facing east- southeast in the middle of the intersection. After the initial impact, V2 began to rotate counterclockwise. V2 continued this rotation, still in lane two, for about 21 meters (69 feet) before it r rolled one-quarter turn onto its right side. V2 slid on its right side for about 14 meters (46 feet) before rolling another quarter turn onto its top. V2 came to final rest in lane two, north of the intersection, facing east-southeast on its top. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The driver of V2 was transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a sixteen-year-old male, was driving from his home to school. He stated that as he was making his left turn, the sun was in his eyes and he just didn't see V2. He was well rested, drives this route daily, feels very comfortable with his vehicle, and is in good health. As he approached the intersection, he did not stop but decelerated. He was looking toward his intended path of travel rather than checking oncoming traffic. He has been driving for five months and completed basic driver's education six months ago. He detected V2 just prior to impact and attempted no evasive maneuvers.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). Sun glare and inexperienced driver were coded as associated factors for V1.

The driver of V2, a sixty-five-year-old female, was commuting from her house to work. She has COPD (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease) and high blood pressure, for which she takes Advair, Spiriva, Toprol, and Lisinopril on a regular basis. She is near-sighted and was wearing her glasses at the time of the crash. She drives this route daily, was well rested, and feels very comfortable with her vehicle. She detected V1 as she approached the intersection but assumed V1 would yield the right of way. She did not attempt any evasive maneuvers.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.