This two-vehicle crash occurred on an urban highway where it joins with a private driveway to make a three-way uncontrolled intersection. On the south side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a painted median and northbound traffic lanes consist of a right turn lane, two through lanes, and a left turn lane. On the north side of the intersection, the roadway is divided by a painted median and southbound traffic lanes consist of a right turn lane and two through lanes. This roadway is straight and downhill going southbound into the intersection with a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with morning rush hour congestion and mildly foggy conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Dodge Ram 2500 pickup with one occupant, was northbound in lane four, preparing to turn left into the private driveway. Vehicle two, a 1996 Mazda 626 with three occupants, was southbound in lane one, the right turn lane. Traffic in the southbound through lanes was stopped for a red light at an intersection 126 meters (413 feet) south. Two non-contact vehicles at the crash intersection stopped to leave enough room for V1 to turn left. A tractor-trailer driver signaled to the driver of V1 that it was clear, so V1 proceeded with its turn. As V1 pulled across lane one of southbound traffic, the front of V2 struck the right side of V1. V1 and came to rest approximately at the point of impact. Prior to the researcher's arrival on-scene, V1 had been driven to the entrance of the private driveway. V2 was towed due to damage. No one was transported due to injury. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-two-year-old male, was on his way to work from his home. He was well rested, drives this route daily, and is very comfortable with his vehicle. He is in good health and takes no medications. He was stopped for 4-6 seconds before attempting the left turn. His view of the traffic in lane one was obstructed by the tractor-trailer and he made a false assumption that no through traffic would be in that lane since it is a right turn only into the private driveway. The black on white regulatory "RIGHT LANE MUST TURN RIGHT" sign is for traffic at the controlled intersection 126 meters (413 feet) to the south.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: turned with obstructed view.

The driver of V2, a seventy-seven-year-old male, was coming from his wife's cousin's house and on the way to a bus stop to drop her off. He was well rested, drives this route several times a month, and is very comfortable with his vehicle. He has high blood pressure and Type 2 diabetes and takes Lisinopril and Diovan regularly to treat these conditions. His hearing is slightly impaired and he wears bifocals, but he doesn't have any restrictions on his license.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.