This two-vehicle crash occurred during the early evening hours of a weekday. The collision took place on an undivided urban north/south roadway prior a four-way intersection. There were two southbound lanes and one northbound lane. The posted speed limit for the roadway was 48 kmph (30 mph). The surface type for the roadway was that of bituminous asphalt. The roadway was dry, straight, and had a positive grade. There were no indications of physical damage. Weather conditions were cloudy and cold. Conditions were also dark, but there were streetlights to illuminate the roadway.

V1, a 1998 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan, was traveling southbound in lane one of the roadway when it struck V2, a 2002 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, which was stopped prior to the intersection. The front of V1 struck the rear of V2. The traffic signal for both drivers was green. The east/westbound signal was red. There was a police car traveling westbound through the intersection with its lights and siren on. The police car proceeded through the intersection on a red traffic signal. This caused V2 to suddenly stop. V1 attempted to brake (no lock-up); however, could not do so in time, which caused the collision. V1 had full deployment of both frontal airbags and had to be towed from the scene. V2 suffered minor damage and was driven away from the scene by the driver. Neither driver was injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 29 year-old female in generally good health, stated she was on her way home from work when the crash occurred. She said that as she was approaching the intersection, her light was green. Then she noticed seeing and hearing a police car coming through the intersection. As soon as she looked back at the vehicle in front of her (which was stopped at this point), she attempted to brake but was unsuccessful. Consequently, she rear-ended V2. The driver reported this was a road that she travels on a daily basis when returning home from work. Her place of employment was approximately two miles away from the crash-scene. The driver had been licensed in the US for approximately 14 months. Prior, she was licensed in a different country. The driver also reported that this was her first-ever crash. The driver also admitted to listening to the radio while she was driving.

The driver of V2, a 27 year-old female, could not be reached for an interview. No other information was obtained about the driver and the vehicle could not be located for an inspection.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was coded other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The Critical Reason was coded driver related factor, external distraction (police car with flashing lights and sirens). Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include driver inexperience and a traffic flow interruption caused by the approaching police vehicle.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V2 was coded other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The Critical Reason was not coded for this driver. The only associated factor that could be coded to the driver of V2 was the traffic flow interruption caused by the approaching police vehicle.

.