This crash occurred in the early morning of a weekday in the southbound lanes of a six-lane highway. There were three northbound lanes and three southbound lanes divided by a grassy median. This was a straight, bituminous roadway with a slight downhill grade and a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). There was an advisory speed limit of 80 kmph (50 mph) for a construction zone. It had recently stopped snowing causing the roadway to be wet and form patches of ice. The traffic flow was heavy due to rush hour congestion.

V1, a 2003 Hyundai Sonata with one occupant, was southbound in lane three. V2, a 2002 Pontiac Bonneville with one occupant, was southbound in lane two slightly behind V1. As V1 continued southbound the vehicle in front of it suddenly braked. The driver of V1 applied his brakes and steered right to avoid this vehicle. V1 entered lane two in the path of V2. The left front corner of V2 struck the right side of V1. After the impact, V1 departed the road to the right and impacted a concrete barrier with the right rear of the vehicle. V2 also departed the roadway and impacted the same barrier with its front right, causing minor scratching to the front right and wheel of the vehicle. Both vehicles came to final rest on the right side of the roadway, off of the road. V1 was driven from the scene, while V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 46 year-old male, was uninjured in the crash. He stated that he was probably following too close to the vehicle in front of him to begin with and had he left more space he probably would have been able to avoid the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on the right side of travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was coded as a driver related factor, following too closely to respond to unexpected actions. Associated factors include the rush hour traffic and the presence of a construction zone. The road conditions (wet and icy) were also coded as associated factors. The driver had also stated that he may have been thinking about work at the time but did not think that it contributed to the crash.

The driver of V2, a 40 year-old male, was uninjured in the crash. He stated that he was traveling in the center lane when V1 just cut into his lane. He attempted to steer right and avoid V1 but was unsuccessful.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane (same direction) - over the lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors include the rush hour traffic and the presence of a construction zone. The road conditions (wet and icy) were also coded as associated factors.