This single-vehicle crash occurred a couple of hours past sunset, it was dark but the roadway was lighted. The location is a rural state route highway. The roadway was a bituminous two-way, two-lane roadway. The roadway in the area of the crash was level and straight, but just prior to the crash location the vehicle had traveled through a curve to the right. The weather was clear and the dry. The posted speed limit was 89 kmph (55 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1990 Chevrolet Suburban SUV driven by a nineteen (19) year old female with two passengers was traveling westbound when it lost control. V1 than began to rotate clockwise and departed the roadway via the right shoulder. The left side of V1 impacted a small sign, then traveled down into the ditch area and impacted a fence, and the embankment. V1 flipped and began rolling to the left. It rolled 6-quarter turns, and came to rest on the roof facing north. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

It is unknown who was actually driving the vehicle. All three occupants were ejected from the vehicle. The registered owner of the vehicle died at the scene due to head trauma. The female occupant and possible driver were thrown into the ditch south of the vehicle's final rest. The deceased male was thrown north west of the vehicle's final rest. The other male occupant was laying across the third row seat at the time of the collision, and it is unclear where he landed when he was ejected. The occupants of the vehicle were not in a hurry although the crash dynamics indicate a fairly high rate of speed. They were going to go see an undecided movie, and didn't have a start time. They were all familiar with the area. The police reported driver does not remember anything as she suffered a head injury during the crash, and other head injuries a few months prior to crash. She does not believe she was driving. She does not know what happened, other than the male passenger is trying to accuse her to mess up her life. She stated she wouldn't drive with the rear seated male passenger in the vehicle, because he yells at her and makes her nervous. She said the only reason the other guy is saying she was driving is because she has major issues with his girlfriend.

The researcher noticed during on-scene vehicle inspection the left front tire tire had only 14 pounds of pressure, with the vehicle just coming out of a curve to the right, this may have been a factor in the initial control loss. Three of the four tires were under-inflated, but they had sufficient tread depth. The driver was on a combination of illegal drugs: crack cocaine, Methamphetamine, and Marijuana, She also had financial problems and concerns with employment.

The critical pre-crash event coded to V1 was: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: poor directional control (e.g., failing to control vehicle with skill ordinarily expected).