This crash occurred in the middle of a four-way signal controlled intersection. The east/west approach was a 6-lane undivided roadway, with three lanes in each direction. The north/south approach was a 7-lane divided roadway with 4 lanes heading south and 3 lanes heading north. The north/south roadway had a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph) and the east/west roadway had a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred in the early morning on a weekday just before morning rush hour. The roads were dry and the skies were clear.

V1, a 2005 Mazda M3 4-door with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane 3 intending on continuing south. V2, a 2004 Mazda M3 4-door with one occupant, was making a left from a parking lot, entering the westbound roadway in lane 3 intending on making a left turn onto the southbound roadway. V1 was waiting at a red light and when the light turned green, proceeded into the intersection. As V1 was traveling through the intersection, V2 made a left out of a store parking lot on the corner, entered the westbound lane and then turned left at a red light at the intersection. The front right of V2 was struck by the front of V1. Both vehicles came to final rest at approximately 10 meters from point of impact. V1 went approximately 10 meters southwest and struck a light post. V2 came to final rest approximately 10 meters south of point of impact facing southeast in the southbound lanes. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the 2005 Mazda M3, was driven by a 19-year-old female who reported "C" injuries and was transported to a medical facility from the accident scene. The driver stated that she was on her way from home to work in the morning. She approached the intersection in lane 3, while in lane 4 there were two large SUVs. When the light turned green she and the other vehicles in lane 4 started into the intersection. The driver noticed that the vehicles next to her stopped short and before she was able to realize why they were stopping she was struck by V2. The driver stated that she was unable to see over the vehicles to try and avoid the collision because she does frequently look before proceeding into the intersection.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded as "This vehicle traveling-crossing over (passing through) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as "Inadequate Surveillance" because the driver should have looked prior to proceeding into the intersection because this was an intersection where people frequently ran red lights. The drivers in lane 4 were able to avoid an accident with V2 because they looked before completely proceeding through the intersection. One associated factor coded to this vehicle was that the impending problem was masked by traffic flow. The driver claimed that she tried to look before proceeding through the intersection but she couldn't see over the larger vehicles. These vehicles also caused a sightline restriction for the driver.

V2, the 2004 Mazda M3, was driven by a 23-year-old female who reported "C" injuries but refused medical treatment on scene. The driver stated that she was on her way from home to work. She decided to stop for coffee on her way because she was a little tired this morning. The driver had just started a new job at the beginning of the week, which required a shift in her schedule that she was still adjusting to. When the driver was exiting the parking lot, there was another vehicle in front of her that was going in the same direction as her, so she followed the vehicle. The driver and the other vehicle made a left turn out of the parking lot and then immediately made a left at the intersection. When the driver was making a left out of the parking lot, she noticed that the light up ahead had a green light and she assumed it stayed green and she just never looked again. The other vehicle in front of her was able to successfully clear the intersection, but she was not. The driver did not see V1 going through the intersection until it was too late and was not able to avoid the collision.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded as "This vehicle traveling-turning left at intersection." A Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event was also coded to V2: Illegal maneuver. Although the driver of V2 claimed that she thought that her light was still green, she admitted that she never looked again at it. It was believed that the driver intentionally ran the red light and deliberately did not look again at the signal before making her turn. Associated factors coded to this vehicle included driver fatigue and inadequate surveillance - the driver failed to look far enough ahead in that she failed to look to see if the light remained green and if the other sides of traffic were proceeding through the intersection. The driver was also focused on an extraneous vehicle, the other vehicle that was she was following from the parking lot and into the intersection. The driver conducted an illegal maneuver of failing to stop for a traffic control device. The driver was also under work-related stress of learning a new position and adjusting to a new work schedule and environment.