The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. One was a five-lane, two-way roadway. It had two northbound lanes and two southbound lanes divided by a left-turn lane. It had a level grade and a posted speed of 80 kmph (50 mph). The east/west roadway was a three-lane two-way roadway. It had a downhill grade and a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). It had one eastbound lane and one westbound lane divided by a left-turn lane. The intersection had a traffic control device on colors. It was early afternoon on a weekend and the road was dry and the sky was clear. Traffic was flowing.

V1, a 1997 Buick Lesabre four-door with one occupant was traveling northbound in lane two. V2, a 1997 Pontiac Grand Prix two-door with one occupant was traveling eastbound in lane one. V3, a 1995 Chevrolet Corsica four-door with two occupants was traveling westbound in lane one. All three vehicles were approaching the intersection intending to go straight. V1 had a red light and V2 and V3 had a green light. The driver of V1 told her daughter that she did not remember what had happened. After the crash the driver of V1 was released from the hospital and suffered from a stroke shortly after. No further questions could be asked of V1. The driver of V2 stated that she did not see V1 prior to the impact and did not make any avoidance actions. The driver of V3 stated that as he got into the intersection he saw V1 run the light. He attempted to steer right to avoid V1 but was unable. V1 went through the intersection and the front of V2 contacted the left of V1. Then the front of V1 contacted the left of V3 both vehicles rotated and the right of V1 contacted the left of V3. V1 then rolled over two quarter turns before it came to final rest on its roof on the north leg of the intersection. V2 came to final rest off the right side of the east leg. V3 departed the roadway on the right side of the north leg. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 was an 86-year old female. She reported injuries and was transported to a local trauma facility. She could not remember how the crash occurred. She had left home and was on her way to the cemetery. The daughter of V1 stated that she was told V1 was traveling approximately 113 kmph (70 mph).

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V1 was: This vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was coded as illegal maneuver. Associated factors coded to this vehicle were that the driver of V1 disobeyed a traffic control device and was traveling too fast for conditions.

The driver of V2 was a 56-year old female. She reported no injuries and refused treatment. She advised that she had just left her friend's house and was on her way to another friend's house. She stated that she was traveling between 34-48 kmph (21-30 mph). She stated that she did not see V1 prior to impact and did not have time to react.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V2 was: Other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factor she rarely drove this roadway.

The driver of V3 was a 33-year old male. He reported no injuries and refused treatment. He stated that he had just left his girlfriend's house and was taking his son home. He stated that he was traveling between 18-32 kmph (11-20 mph) prior to seeing V1 run the light. He stated that he tried to avoid V1 by steering right but was unable to do so.

The Critical Precrash Event for the driver of V3 was: Other, not involved in first harmful event. No Critical Reason was coded to this vehicle.