This three-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged intersection. Both roadways are straight, level, undivided and consist of one lane in each direction. The north/south roadways are controlled by stop signs. Prior to the crash, the stop sign for northbound traffic was face down on the ground. The speed limit for this roadway is 32 kmph (20 mph). The speed limit for the east/west roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1993 Ford Tempo, was northbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Chrysler 300M, was eastbound in lane one. Vehicle three (V3), a 1990 Oldsmobile Cutlass Ciera, was westbound in lane one. In the intersection, the front of V1 struck the right side of V2. V2 rotated counterclockwise and the left side was struck by the front of V3. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, an eighteen-year-old female, was traveling with a seventeen-year-old female passenger. She stated that she saw V2 but thought that V2 had a stop sign.

The driver of V2, a fifty-eight-year-old male, was on his way home from a store. He was well rested, healthy and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route weekly. He has had a stroke and takes the medication Dilantin. This driver stated that he did not see V1 prior to the crash.

The driver of V3, a twenty-eight-year-old female, was traveling with a twenty-seven-year-old male passenger, from a gas station to a newspaper office. She was fairly healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle and passenger. She has diabetes and takes insulin daily. This driver saw the crash between V1 and V2 and applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "environment related factor; signs/signals missing." This driver's false assumption that V2 had a stop sign and would yield the right-of-way was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's inadequate surveillance was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded as "not involved first harmful event." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was "not coded to this vehicle."