This crash occurred at an intersection of the westbound lanes of a 5 lane undivided roadway controlled by a traffic signal. The roadway was curved to the left with a -5.1% grade. The weather was clear and the roadway was dry. This crash occurred on a weekend afternoon.

Vehicle #1, a 2006 Infinity M35 was traveling west on the roadway when he drove through the intersection. Vehicle #2, a 2007 Lincoln Towncar, was exiting a retail side road intending to make a left turn, and go east, onto the 5-lane roadway. Vehicle #1 impacted with the left front of Vehicle #2 with it's front. Both vehicles came to final rest facing in a westerly direction in lane one of the roadway. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 2006 Infinity M35 (Vehicle #1) was driven by a belted 72 year old male who was not injured. There was a belted 19-year old male in the front right seat who was treated at the scene. There was a belted 19-year old male in the second row left seat that was not injured. The driver stated he was both talking and listening to his passengers as he approached the intersection. He also said he rarely drove on that roadway. This driver stated he was retired and refused to answer any questions concerning his health and any medications he may be taking. This driver further stated he had just driven 40 to 50 Thruway miles prior to the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for Vehicle #1 was coded as: "other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, turning into opposite direction". The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle.

The 2007 Lincoln Towncar (Vehicle #2) was driven by a belted 43-year old male who stated he had a green light at the intersection and was proceeding into the intersection when Vehicle #1 hit him. There was a belted 42-year old female in the right front seat who was treated at the scene. There were two belted passengers in the rear seat who were not injured. All occupants in Vehicle #2 were from a foreign country and this was their second time on that roadway, the first being just before they pulled into the motel lot.

The Critical Precrash Event For Vehicle #2 was coded as: "this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was coded "false assumption".

The police did not consider alcohol or illegal drugs to be a factor in this crash, however did issue a summons to Vehicle #1 for Passing a Red Light.