This two-vehicle crash occurred in the evening of a weekday in the northbound lanes of a 4-way intersection. The intersection consisted of two multi-lane roadways controlled by a properly functioning traffic signal. The main thoroughfare was a north/south 2-lane divided roadway that expanded to four lanes at the intersection because of the right and left-turn only lanes. The road was straight, had a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph), and both directions had an uphill grade on the approach to the intersection. The conditions were clear, dry, and dark without any street lighting.

V1, a 2005 Chevrolet Impala 4-door sedan with one occupant, was northbound in lane two approaching this intersection, intending to go straight. V2, a 1998 Chevrolet Cavalier 2-door coupe with one occupant, was southbound in the left-turn lane of this intersection, waiting to make a left turn. After the traffic signal turned yellow for both directions, V2 executed a left turn across the path of V1 as it also entered the intersection. The front of V1 struck the right side of V2 (event #1) and then the two vehicles side-slapped each other, with the left side of V1 striking the right side of V2 (event #2). V1 and V2 were both towed due to disabling damage but only V2's driver was transported from the scene for minor injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is 89 kmph for V1 and 89 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 29-year-old female who was commuting from work to home. While driving, she was returning a text message that her cousin had sent her. She and her cousin were to meet at the driver's home this evening to watch a movie. While she was driving north toward this intersection, her work phone began to ring so she reached to answer it. She looked down when she grabbed the phone from the cup holder and when she looked back at the roadway she noticed the traffic signal had turned yellow and that there was an oncoming car turning across her path. She immediately slammed on the brake pedal as she entered the intersection but she could not avoid crashing into the other vehicle.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded "other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to this driver include driver inattention, text messaging, and retrieving object from other location - cup holder.

The driver of V2 was a 44-year-old male who had moved to the area three months ago and works two part-time jobs. For this trip today, this driver was commuting home from work and stopped at this intersection, facing south, waiting to make a left turn. While stopped at this intersection, he waited for an entire traffic signal to cycle before his direction had a green light. Once the signal turned green and then yellow, he began to move forward but he did not begin to turn yet because he waited for a northbound vehicle to pass. Once that northbound vehicle passed and the intersection was clear, this driver executed his left turn and was struck in the right side by an unnoticed V1. This driver said he never saw V1 before it struck him so never tried to avoid it. He was transported from the scene to a hospital for minor injuries (whiplash) and his car was towed due to damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded "this vehicle turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded "inadequate surveillance, failed to look far enough ahead." No additional associated factors were coded to this driver.