This two-vehicle crash occurred in a three-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The east/west trafficway is straight and divided by a curbed median. The westbound lanes have a six percent downhill grade and consist of two through lanes. The speed limit for this roadway is 64 kmph (40 mph). The north/south roadway on the north side of the east/west trafficway is straight, undivided and consists of one lane in each direction. The southbound approach has a ten percent uphill grade. The speed limit for this roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). It was dusk at the time of the crash with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Ford Econoline van, was westbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1993 Toyota Camry, was southbound in lane one. V2 entered the intersection, turning left, and the left side was struck by the front of V1. V1 rotated counterclockwise and traveled south. The front of V1 struck a fence and a tree. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-seven-year-old male, was on his way to a medical appointment from his home. He was familiar with his vehicle and route. This driver has depression and takes the medication Paxil. He had slept for twenty-four hours just prior to the crash. This driver stated that he was stressed due to family issues and he was thinking about them prior to the crash. He further stated that he did not remember what color the traffic signal was, but that "these lights are timed and mine should've been green." This driver applied the brakes and steered left in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The driver of V2, an eighteen-year-old female, was on her way home from church. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she did not see V1 prior to the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's focus on his family problem and his inadequate surveillance were associated factors in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)."