This three-vehicle crash occurred on a weekend during daylight hours, on a two-way, two-lane roadway, which was not physically divided. The bituminous roadway was dry with an uphill grade for northbound traffic. There was also a left curve for northbound traffic, however, there was no precrash curvature for southbound traffic. There were no traffic control devices associated with this stretch of roadway and the posted speed limit was 64 kmph (40 mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash, and traffic flow was normal.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Toyota Tundra, was heading north on the roadway negotiating the left curve. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Mercury Sable, was heading south on the roadway intending to continue straight. Vehicle three (V3), a 2002 Chrysler Town and Country, was also heading south on the roadway behind V2. Vehicle one crossed into the opposing lane of travel when the front of the vehicle contacted the driver's side of V2. After the initial impact, V1 lost its left front wheel and continued forward contacting the front of V3. Vehicle one came to final rest in the southbound lane facing north against V3, which was facing south. Vehicle two continued forward and ended up in a parking lot facing west. All three vehicles had to be towed from the scene due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 51 year-old male, suffered possible injuries as a result of the crash and was transported to a medical facility for treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A complete interview was obtained from the driver of this vehicle. He relayed that he suffered from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and began to feel anxious as he was driving. He began to feel the symptoms of PTSD, however he claimed that this time, the symptoms came on all at once. He described symptoms of blurred vision, nausea, sweating, and light-headedness. As the symptoms progressed he began becoming disoriented, and claimed that he didn't know where he was. He said that he began swerving on the road going from left to right. He related that while he was disoriented he did not feel that he was unconscious when the crash occurred. He was currently taking medication for depression, blood pressure, cholesterol, and anxiety. One medication he takes is reserved for emergencies, however, he claimed to have taken that medication in the morning. The driver also claimed that he suffered from sleep apnea and was currently using BiPAP treatment to help this condition. The driver did state that he felt rested when driving this leg of the trip. This was the first time the driver was on this roadway, so he was not familiar with the area. He relayed that he was doing a favor for someone and that he felt that he bit off more than he could chew. The driver claimed that his vehicle was in proper working condition.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was: this vehicle traveling over the left lane line. The Critical Reason was coded as: other physical impairment of the ability to act. Two associated health related factors were sleep apnea and anxiety.

The driver of V2, a 55 year-old female, suffered non-incapacitating injuries and was taken to a medical facility for treatment. There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. A complete interview was obtained from this driver. She claimed that she was heading home from lunch on a roadway which she is very familiar with. She noticed V1 crossing over into her lane heading for her vehicle. She stated that she tried to avoid the oncoming vehicle by steering right and applying the brakes. After she was struck, she continued off the right side of the roadway and came to final rest in a parking lot. The driver claimed to be in good health and was not fatigued at the time of the crash. She relayed that her vehicle was in proper working condition.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was: other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no other associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle.

The driver of V3, a 42 year-old male, was not injured as a result of the crash and did not require any medical treatment. There were 4 other occupants in the vehicle at the time of the crash, one of which suffered non-incapacitating injuries and was taken to a medical facility for treatment. A complete interview was obtained from the wife of the driver, and followed up with the driver himself. It was relayed that the wife heard her husband scream "oh no!" and when she looked up she noticed V1 heading for their vehicle and that it was missing its left front wheel. She said that her husband performed wonderfully by trying to avoid the crash, but unfortunately it wasn't enough. She relayed that her husband does have sleep apnea, but that if he doesn't sleep on his back he is fine. She related that her husband does not suffer from any other health issues and does not take any medication, prescription or otherwise, that she is aware of. Their vehicle was in proper working condition and no mechanical problems contributed to this crash.

There was no Critical Precrash Event coded for this vehicle because it was not involved in the first harmful event. For this reason, no Critical Reason could be coded to this vehicle. One associated factor coded to the driver of this vehicle was sleep apnea with no treatment.