This nighttime single-vehicle crash occurred on a dark but lighted roadway. The roadway is divided, two-way, concrete, level, and has five travel lanes with two in each direction going straight and a center left turn lane at the intersection. Southbound traffic lanes curve to the left. At the southwest corner of the intersection the travel lanes are bordered by a cement wall. The wall is approximately 115 centimeters (45 inches) tall and about 30 centimeters (12 inches) thick. The posted speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph). No adverse weather conditions present at the time of this evening collision.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Chevrolet Impala sedan driven by a fifty eight (58) year-old male driver, was traveling south in lane one with the intention of going straight while negotiating a curve. For an unknown reason, V1 driver failed to negotiate curve, departed the roadway to the right and struck a concrete wall located on the right side of roadway with right front bumper and again with right rear side of vehicle. After impact, V1 was deflected back into roadway, then traveled across southbound lanes to the left, across the raised median, and into northbound traffic lanes. V1 came to rest across the northbound traffic lanes facing southeast. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling; off the edge of the road on right side. The critical reason for the critical event was coded as a driver related factor: "poor directional control". A partial interview was obtained with the driver of V1 and many factors are unknown. The driver is disabled and does not work. He is in poor health with the following conditions: dialysis, hypertension, kidney failure, peripheral vascular disease, and diabetes. Medications for the driver include Plavix, Coreg, Nitro path, and Oxycodone . There was no indication alcohol was a factor for this driver. He could not recall the crash events, nor his hours of previous sleep. He indicated the vehicle had been in good working order prior to the crash.