This crash occurred on two lane undivided straight roadway, with a negative grade of 2.5% and a posted speed limit of 48KMPH (30MPH). The weather was clear and the roadway was dry. This crash occurred on a weekday afternoon. Traffic flow was normal for that time of day.

Vehicle #1, a 1995 Toyota T-100 Pick-Up, was traveling northbound on the two-lane roadway when it impacted with Vehicle #2, a 1995 Geo Prism, which was stopped in the traffic lane in front of it. Vehicle #1 impacted the rear of Vehicle #2 with its front. Both vehicles came to rest in a northeasterly direction. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The 1995 Toyota Pick-Up (Vehicle #1) was driven by a belted 21 year old female who was not injured. This driver refused to be interviewed or have her vehicle inspected after her father, whom appeared to be angry, stated to the researcher, "My daughter had a brain fart, that's all you need to know".

The Critical Precrash Event Coded to Vehicle #1 was: Other Motor Vehicle in Lane, Other Vehicle Stopped. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was coded as: Driver Related Factor, Inadequate Surveillance (failed to look, looked but did not see).

The 1995 Geo Prism (Vehicle #2) was driven by a belted 28-year-old male who was transported to an area hospital, treated and released. This driver stated he was stopped in the traffic lane waiting for other vehicles to pass in the oncoming direction so that a vehicle in front of him could make a left turn into a retail driveway. This driver stated he did not see the approaching Vehicle #1 and, therefore, had no time for reaction. Vehicle #1 was driven from the scene. Vehicle #2 was privately towed to the driver's home by his father-in-law who owns a body shop. This occurred after the police left the scene. The Police Accident Report does not show either vehicle as being towed.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to Vehicle #2 was: Other Motor Vehicle in Lane, Traveling in Same Direction with Higher Speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to Vehicle #2.

The police did not consider alcohol or illegal drugs to be a factor in this case, However, the driver of Vehicle #1 was issued a summons for 'Following to Closely'.