This two-vehicle collision occurred at a T intersection in the evening during dark hours, The east/west leg intersects the primary north/south roadway from the west. Vehicles entering the intersection from the west are controlled by a stop sign. Both roadways are two-way, two lane undivided roadways. The northbound direction just prior to the intersection has a 7% uphill grade. The south bound direction of travel has a 55 meter (180 feet) wide dip in the roadway 60 meters (197 feet) north of the intersection. Traffic flow through the intersection for north/south travel is controlled by yellow flashing beacons. The asphalt road surface was dry at the time. The posted speed limit is 40 kmph (25 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Ford mustang coupe, driven by a sixteen (16) year old male was originally headed north with the intention of turning left at the intersection to travel west. Vehicle 2 (V2) was a 2006 Mazda 3 sedan driven by a thirty one (31) year old female with one passenger. V2 was traveling south in lane one. As V1 entered the intersection the front of V2 impacted the right side near the rear of V1. V2 was deflected to the east, and came to rest in the oncoming lane against the guardrail. V1 rotated clockwise and impacted a stop sign with the right front fender, and traveled to the southwest corner where it came to rest in the ditch. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1's pre-crash factors are unknown as this driver was not interviewed.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was assigned to this driver as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (failed to look, looked but did not see. The yellow caution beacons are visible far in advance of the intersection. There was a sight line issue for both driver's created by the hillcrest of the roadway and V1 did not realize V2 was approaching until he had already started his turn.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment: from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical event not coded to this vehicle.