The crash occurred in the intersection of a five-lane roadway divided by a grassy median intersecting a three-lane undivided roadway. The five-lane roadway had three eastbound lanes, with lane three being a left turn only lane, and two westbound lanes. The three-lane roadway had a ramp northbound from the westbound road and a ramp southbound to the westbound road. The ramps were separated by painted gores with a single northbound lane between the gores. There is no lane for southbound traffic to turn left to the eastbound lanes. There were no traffic control devices for either east or westbound traffic. The east/westbound asphalt road was dry, level and with a slight curve to the left for westbound traffic (radius of curvature of 786m and no super-elevation). The posted speed limit was 72 kmph (45 mph). Traffic was congested at the time of the crash due to the lunchtime rush hour. The crash occurred on a weekday just before noon under clear sunny skies.

V1, a 1991 Toyota Corolla station wagon with one occupant was traveling eastbound in lane three. V2, a 1998 Mercedes ML3 four-door SUV with two occupants was traveling westbound in lane two. V3, a 2001 Ford F350 pickup truck with one occupant was stopped in a line of traffic westbound in lane one. The westbound lane one traffic was backed up beyond the intersection. V1 attempted to turn left to the northbound lane. V2 braked with lockup in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid impact. V2's front struck the right front side of V1 (Event 1) causing V1 to yaw in a counter-clockwise rotation to the left. V1's right side hit V2's left side (Event 2) then V1's right front struck the left back of V3 (Event 3). V1 came to rest facing west straddling both lanes approximately 12m west of the first impact. V2 came to rest facing west in lane two within a meter of impact based on the driver's statement. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, The Toyota Corolla, was driven by a 24-year old male who was not injured. He reported that he had been traveling from work to lunch and had been stopped in the left turn lane heading east for more than 10 seconds. He added that there was a line of traffic in lane one of the westbound traffic (opposing) stopped for a red light at the next intersection. One of the driver's in the westbound lane (opposing traffic) waved at the driver of V1 to go ahead and turn in front of him. The driver of V1 said he did not see anyone coming in lane two of the westbound lane so he started to turn left. The driver advised that before he could complete his turn he was struck by V2, which he never saw. He added that he took no evasive actions.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “this vehicle traveling turning left at intersection”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was “inadequate surveillance, failed to look, looked but did not see”. Associated factors were assigned to V1 for driver behavior, recognition, inadequate surveillance, looked but did not see (by the driver's admission) and driver recognition, and for other, highway, traffic congestion.

V2, the Mercedes ML3, was driven by a 34-year old female. Both the driver and her 40-year old male passenger were coded for possible injuries but they were not transported to a hospital. The driver reported that she was traveling at the speed limit. She added that about two seconds before impact she saw V1 turn left across her path and that although she braked, she was unable to avoid striking V1.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was “other vehicle encroachment from the opposite direction, over the left lane line”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle. Associated factors were assigned to V2 for driver behavior, performance, emotional, work related stress and for other, highway, traffic congestion.

V3, the Ford F350, was driven by a 44-year old male who was not injured. The driver stated that he was stopped with his foot on the brakes and was not aware that he was going to be struck. He took no evasive actions.

The Critical Precrash Event and the Critical Reason for the Critical Event were not coded for V3 because it was not involved in the first harmful event. Associated factors were assigned to V3 due to presence for driver behavior, experience (this was the driver's first time on this roadway) and for other, highway, traffic congestion, and for other, vehicle over-inflated tires.