This three-vehicle crash occurred on an undivided, straight, level roadway. This roadway consists of two lanes in each direction and the speed limit is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1996 Jeep Cherokee, was westbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Ford Windstar, was westbound in lane two in front of V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 2005 Chevrolet C1500 pickup, was westbound in lane two in front of V2. V3 stopped and was waiting to turn left into a driveway. V2 stopped behind V3. The front of V1 struck the back of V2. V2 moved forward and the front struck the back of V3. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-two-year-old male, was on his way to a gas station from his home. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route daily. This driver stated that he was thinking about his new job. He further stated that he attempted to change lanes to the right when he realized that V2 was stopped.

The driver of V2, a thirty-seven-year-old female, had just picked up her four young sons from the babysitter's house and they were on their way to a store. This driver was well rested, healthy and comfortable with her vehicle and passengers. She stated that she stopped when she realized that V3 was stopped and did not see V1 prior to the crash.

The driver of V3, a forty-eight-year-old male, was on his way from his daughter's house to a friend's house. He was healthy and well rested. This driver rarely travels this route and this was his first time driving this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; other vehicle stopped." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inattention (i.e. daydreaming)."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."

The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded as "not involved first harmful event." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was "not coded to this vehicle."