This two-vehicle crash occurred in the eastbound lane of a non-physically divided two-way street a few feet before northbound single lane intersecting street. Curbside parking was permitted on both sides of the east/westbound lanes. There were no traffic control devices for this roadway. The asphalt roadways were dry and straight and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred on a weekend during the early afternoon daylight hours. The roadway was free of any defects and the traffic flow was normal for this street.

Vehicle one, a 1994 Chrysler LHS 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound when it contacted with its front the left side of vehicle two, a 2002 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, entering the same eastbound roadway from a parked position. After the impact, vehicle one rotated slightly clockwise coming to final rest continuing to face eastward. Vehicle two, after the impact, rotated slightly counter-clockwise where it came to final rest facing northward. Both vehicles damages were disabling and were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a 43-year old female, explained she and her passenger were traveling eastbound at approximately 56 kmph (35 mph) when all of a sudden vehicle two came out of nowhere and struck her vehicle on the left side. I think she was entering the roadway from a parked position. She said she was very tired and irritable because she had such a rough day and there're a lot of things on her mind: she can't find a job and never has any money. She was talking with her passenger on her way to the super-market, she normally sleeps 8-hours a night. However, she only slept 7-hours the pervious night. She's been a licensed driver for over 23-years and considers herself a good driver. She complained of pains but refused to be transported to the hospital. Her passenger was not injured.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V1 is: "other vehicle encroachment from adjacent lane (same direction) - over right lane line". The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle includes: possible fatigue and upset, slept only 7-hours the previous night normally sleeps 8-hours.

The driver of vehicle two, a 25-year old female, said she had just left work and drove a few feet from her parked position and attempted to make a u-turn left. She saw vehicle one a ways down the street and thought she could make her turn before V1 got to where she was. However, it didn't happen. She said V1 must have been speeding to get that far up the block. She travels on the roadway daily, to and from work without incident. She's been a licensed driver. She was not injured.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V2 is: "other, making a u-turn left". The Critical Reason coded to this vehicle is: "misjudgment of gap or other's speed". Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle include: misjudgment of velocity of the other vehicle. The medical records state that her medications are Allegra-D, birth control pills and Prozac.