This crash occurred in the westbound lanes of a three-lane undivided roadway. There were two westbound lanes and one eastbound lane. The roadway had an uphill grade, curved to the left, was bituminous, and had a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). It was early evening on a weekday, the roadway was dry, and conditions were clear.

V1 was a 1991 Dodge Shadow, operated by a 21 year-old male. V1 was traveling westbound in lane one, when the driver lost control of the vehicle. The vehicle crossed the right side fog line, returned to its original travel lane, crossed the lane line to the left, returned to its original travel, lane, and then went off of the roadway to the right. After leaving the roadway the vehicle went down an embankment, crossed a small stream, up a small incline, and impacted three trees. The last tree on the left side of the vehicle caused the most severe damage to the vehicle. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side." The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was "poor directional control." The driver of the vehicle was charged with DUI, after posting a 0.19 BAC test. Witnesses to the crash stated that the vehicle was traveling approximately 60 mph, and suddenly began weaving, and then driving off of the road. The driver stated that he believes he was adjusting the radio at the time of the crash. He also said that he thought that there was another car in front of him that was going slower, and that is why he swerved suddenly. The driver also suffers from a corneal abrasion in his right eye that causes blurry vision, regardless of his wearing glasses or contacts. He also suffers from muscle spasms and a back ailment of some sort that causes pain. He is prescribed, Clonapin, Soma, and Zyprexa, for these ailments. The driver has had his license for about nine months, having not been able to attain it before because of previous complications with the law.

This researcher also spoke to the driver's father at the tow yard. His father said that the driver is a recovering drug addict, and that this is the third vehicle that he has totaled this year. He also stated that several days before the driver had taken too much of his prescription medication and passed out. The driver's father also said that he thought that he had passed out before losing control.

While inspecting the vehicle a bottle of 50 mg Tramadol, which is an analgesic was found. There were also opened and unopened cans of Red Bull and Tilt. There was also a 40 oz. Bottle of Mikes Hard Lemonade that was unopened.