This single vehicle crash occurred in the southbound lane several hundred feet before a four-way intersection. The roadway consisted of two lanes: one southbound and one northbound. The lanes were non-physically divided without any dividing lines. Curbside parking was permitted on both sides of the street. There were no signalized traffic control devices at this middle of the block location. The road surfaces were bituminous, straight, and wet. It had been raining on and off throughout the afternoon and evening. The posted speed limit was 56 kmph (35 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during the early evening daylight hours. The atmospheric conditions remained cloudy and overcast throughout the day. The roadway was free of any defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.

Vehicle one, a 1992 Chrysler New Yorker 4-door sedan, was traveling southbound on the two-way street when it traveled over the left lane line onto the northbound lane continued traveling off-road and jumping the cement curb edge and contacted with its front the brick wall (75 cm high) in front of a row home. The brick wall is located in the front of the row home and surrounds the front lawn area. After the initial impact, vehicle one rotated slightly clockwise where it came to final rest facing eastward against the brick wall. Vehicle one was towed from the scene as a result of the disabling damages sustained. Police however elected to record the crash on a non-reportable accident report. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1.

The driver of vehicle one, a 23-year old male, said he was traveling down the little street at approximately 48 kmph (30 mph). He'd just left a food store where he purchased a sandwich. The road was wet and he didn't see the vehicle stop suddenly in front of him until the last minute. He slammed on his brakes and steered left and lost control of his vehicle. The wet road didn't help the situation, he explained. He said he was eating his sandwich and had one hand on the steering wheel and the other was holding the sandwich. Just before the vehicle stopped in front of his vehicle, he believes he was looking at his sandwich and that's probably why he didn't see the vehicle stopped until the last minute or in time enough for him to stop. He travels on this roadway just about everyday. He was not injured.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V1 is: "this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side". The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-Crash Event is: "internal distraction, a recognition error". Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle include: wet roads, eating while driving.