This 5-vehicle crash occurred in the morning of a weekday in an industrial/business part of town near a four-way intersection. At the location of this crash, the main thoroughfare runs north and south, with two lanes for each direction and a center left-turn lane dividing the traffic. The conditions were clear, dry, daylight and the traffic level was heavy because of the morning commuters.

V1, V2, V3, V4, and V5 were all traveling south in lane two as they passed through a four-way intersection with a green signal. V5, a 2000 Ford Expedition with one occupant, stopped in its lane for a vehicle ahead it slowing to make a left turn. V4, an unknown make and model vehicle, stopped behind V5 causing V3, a 1998 Chevrolet Malibu with one occupant, to stop behind V4 and V2, a 2001 Ford Escape with one occupant, to stop behind V3. V1, a 1990 Lincoln Town Car with two occupants, struck the back of V2 causing a chain reaction of rear-end impacts between the other vehicles. V4 left the scene before police arrived and V3 and V5 were driven from the scene. V1 was the only vehicle towed due to damage and there were no injuries reported, however, V3's driver was examined by EMS on scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 is a 34-year-old male that was driving to work this morning when he struck the back of the vehicle (V2) in front of him. He did not expect V2 to stop and he denies that he was not paying attention or that he was distracted. He does not own a driver license and is a self-taught driver.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded "other motor vehicle in lane stopped" and the Critical Reason for the event was coded "inadequate surveillance". Other factors coded to this driver are "impending problem masked by traffic flow pattern", "following too closely: keeping up with traffic" and "falsely assuming that other driver would continue to proceed during rush hour congestion."

The driver of V2 is a 41-year-old female and elementary teacher that was driving to work this morning when she was involved in this crash. This driver states that she was traveling south in rush hour traffic when a vehicle ahead of her suddenly stopped causing a "chain- reaction" of all the vehicles in her lane to brake. She came to a complete stop when she was struck from behind by the front of V1, which pushed her into V3 that was stopped in front of her.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded "other vehicle in lane traveling in same direction with higher speed" and the Critical Reason was "not coded to this vehicle."

This driver of V3 is a 22-year-old female that was traveling south when she stopped for the traffic ahead of her, and was struck from behind by a vehicle that was involved in a previous collision.

The Critical Precrash Event for V3 was coded "not involved in first harmful event" and the Critical Reason was "not coded to this vehicle."

V4 and V5 were not case vehicles.