The crash occurred mid-morning on a weekday in lane four of a four lane westbound roadway where road became an overpass. The road consisted of an east/west seven-lane divided roadway with a right-curving entrance ramp with a 3 % uphill slope from a northbound roadway controlled by a properly placed yield sign directing entrance ramp traffic merging onto the westbound road into lane one (a temporary access lane for merging traffic). The roadway was bituminous, wet, slick and level with a slight left curve in the westbound direction. The road was bordered by guardrails on both sides of the roadway prior to the crash site and one meter high cement walls at the crash site and across the overpass. The posted advisory speed limit was 64 kmph (40 mph), police reported the posted speed limit as 98 kmph (55 mph). The traffic flow was normal with rain and cloudy skies at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1994 Infinity Q45 four-door sedan driven by an unknown male identified by the police as approximately 30 year-old. Prior to the crash, V1 had traveled up the entrance ramp, negotiating the right curve at a rate of 64 kmph (40 mph). Once V1 reached the connection of the entrance the ramp and the westbound road, V1 began to merge into lane two. Before V1 could cross over to lane two, V1 began spinning clockwise, making three complete rotations across the westbound lanes and crashing the left rear of V1 into a cement wall. The force of the impact from the cement wall reversed V1's rotation counter clockwise 360 degrees northwest into the right rear portion of V2's trailer, lodging the trunk of V1 into the rear wheels of V2. After breaking free from V2, V1 rotated an additional 45 degrees counter-clockwise before coming to rest in lanes three and four facing northwest. The driver fled the scene immediately, apparently uninjured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The pre-crash, crash and ensuing events were witnessed by a state trooper traveling west in lane two and informed the researcher of all the details leading to and following the crash. The trooper related that V1 attempted to merge into the westbound lane two from the entrance ramp. The driver was looking to the left prior to control lose. V1 had the left turn signal on and was traveling at a rate of approximately 64 kmph (40 mph) at the time V1 lost control. The driver was not doing any aggressive or non-driving activities prior to control loss. The driver was not talking on a cell phone. V1 spun three complete clockwise rotations prior to crashing into the cement wall south of lane four, reversed rotation counter-clockwise once, and into the rear trailer wheels of V2. The driver was not talking on a cell phone at the time. The driver of V1 was approximately 30 years-old male.

The driver of V1 was never located. Owner of vehicle could not be reached.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded "This vehicle control loss due to traveling too fast for conditions." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "Decision error; Too fast for curve/turn." The only known associated factors coded to the driver of V1 were wet slick roads and rain.

V2, a 2000 Peterbilt 379 tractor truck and trailer hauling 10,000 lbs. of cargo was driven by a 62 year-old male. The driver of V2 stated that he had picked-up his cargo 45 minutes prior to the crash intending to make a drop-off at his delivery depot. He was driving V2 westbound in lane four at a rate of 56 kmph (35 mph) and after passing the entrance ramp to his right, when the trailer V2 was pulling, jerked his tractor. The driver of V2 attempted braking and found the brakes diminished but was able stop V2 115 meters west of the crash site where it came to rest in lane four. The driver of V2 was uninjured.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Not involved in first harmful event." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factor coded to the driver of V2.