This crash occurred in the evening of a weekend in the middle of a four-way rural intersection. The intersection was composed of an east/west two-lane roadway with no controls and a north/south two-lane roadway controlled by stop signs. The north/south roadway was bituminous and straight with a downhill grade (southbound) and a posted speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). The east/west roadway was bituminous, straight, and level with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Volkswagen Jetta with two occupants, was northbound in lane one approaching the intersection, where it intended to go straight. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Volkswagen Gulf with two occupants, was eastbound on the roadway approaching the same intersection where it also intended to continue straight through the intersection. As both vehicles entered the intersection, the front of V1 contacted the right rear of V2. The impact caused V2 to rotate clockwise before coming to final rest facing north in the middle of the east/west roadway. V1 rotated slightly clockwise after impact and came to final rest facing north in the middle of the intersection. V2 was towed from the scene due to damage, while V1 was driven away. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 19-year-old male, suffered minor injuries but was not transported to a medical facility for treatment. The other occupant of the vehicle also suffered minor injuries, but no medical transport was necessary. A partial interview was conducted on-scene with the driver of the vehicle. He relayed that he was driving with his girlfriend because they just wanted "to get away." They had been involved in an argument within the past six hours. He was not familiar with the roadway, and did not notice the stop sign until it was too late.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through), intersection. The Critical Reason was coded as an internal distraction as the driver was conversing with his passenger. Some associated factors include inattention (focused on preceding argument), failure to stop for a traffic control device, and driver inexperience, as it was his first time on this roadway.

The driver of V2, a 53-year-old male, suffered minor injuries as a result of the crash but did not require medical transport. The other occupant in the vehicle also suffered minor injuries, but was not transported to a medical facility for treatment. A partial interview was obtained from this driver on-scene. He stated that he was heading home from church with his son. He did not see the other vehicle crossing the intersection until it was too late.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street across path. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No associated factors were coded to this vehicle.