The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a two-way, eight-lane interstate roadway, which was divided by a concrete traffic barrier. There were four southbound lanes, with a posted speed of 105 kmph (65 mph). This was a straight, level, asphalt roadway. Conditions were dusk on a weekday evening. Traffic flow was congested due to rush hour.

V1, a 2005 Honda Civic with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane three (HOV lane). V2, a 2007 Nissan Murano with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane three, ahead of V1. V3, a 2006 Chevrolet Malibu with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane three, ahead of V2. V4, a 2006 BMW 325i with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane three, ahead of V3. V5, a 2003 Acura RSX with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane three, ahead of V4. Traffic, which was moving slower than normal due to rush hour congestion, suddenly backed up. The drivers of V2 through V5 came to a complete stop in secession. The driver of V1 did not stop in time. The front of V1 made contact with the back of V2. After impact, the front of V2 made contact with the back of V3. Subsequently, the front of V3 made contact with the back of V4. Finally, the front of V4 was pushed forward into the back of V5. All vehicles came to final rest in lane three. V1 and V4 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

V1, the Honda Civic, was driven by a 29-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he was on his way home from work, traveling in lane three. The driver said that traffic, which was somewhat congested at the time, suddenly came to an abrupt halt. The driver braked as hard as he could, but was unable to stop in time.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related decision error, "too fast to be able to respond to unexpected actions of others". A traffic flow interruption factor was the congested traffic.

V2, the Nissan Murano, was driven by a 48-year old female, who was not injured. She stated that she was on her way home from work, traveling in lane three. The driver said that she was on the phone with a friend, when traffic suddenly backed up. She was able to stop in time, but the vehicle behind her did not, and pushed her into the vehicle in front of her.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. One associated factor for this driver was a driver-related recognition factor. The motorist was having a social conversation with a friend at the time of the crash. An additional associated factor was the traffic flow interruption, in the form of congested traffic.

V3, the Chevy Malibu, was driven by a 35-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he was on his way to a friend's house from the store. He said that he saw brake lights all around him, and slammed on his brakes as well. As he came to a stop, he looked into his rearview mirror, and saw the lady behind him doing the same. The driver confirmed that she was on a cell phone. He didn't know that there was someone behind the vehicle that was immediately behind him.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The Critical Precrash Event and the Critical Reason for the Critical Event were not coded to this vehicle. As with V1 and V2, there was the presence of a traffic flow interruption in the form of rush hour congestion.