This two-vehicle crash occurred at an urban, four-legged, signal-controlled intersection with pedestrian crosswalks and sidewalks present in all directions. Eastbound approach was straight and level with four lanes total; two eastbound lanes and two westbound lanes. Northbound approach was straight with a 5 percent uphill grade. This was a one-way road with four straight lanes. The posted speed limit for both directions was 56 kmph (35 mph). Setting was evening hours on a weekday. Conditions were dusk, dry and clear.

V1 was a 1992 Nissan pickup truck with one occupant traveling eastbound in lane two. V2 was a 1990 Honda Civic SI hatchback with one occupant traveling northbound in lane three. There was a non-contact vehicle in lane two, traveling to the right of V2. V1 and V2 entered the intersection at the same time and collided at a right angle. The front of V1 contacted the left front side of V2. V1 left 5.9 meters (19 feet) of skid marks prior to impact. V2 left 8.2 meters (27 feet) of skid marks prior to impact. V1 traveled 2.4 meters (8 feet) after impact, coming to final rest in the intersection facing northeast; while V2 traveled 4.8 meters (16 feet) after impact coming to rest facing northeast also. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1 was a 35 year-old male who was not injured and interviewed on-scene. He was a full-time artist who also cooked in the mornings at a local restaurant and sold homemade jewelry at the farmers market on Saturday's. He works an average of 55 hours per week. On the day of the crash, he was in town attending an art event in the downtown area. He lives 25 miles away in a small town, and had never been on this roadway before. He reported being a little bit lost, so he called his friend on his handheld cell phone while driving. She asked him where he was, so he looked around for a street sign. As he was looking for a street sign, his light changed from green to red, but he didn't notice it until he was under the red light. At the same time, he saw V2 coming from the right. He applied the brakes and steered left to try and avoid a crash with V2, but was unsuccessful. He had cargo in his truck, but it didn't shift before or during impact. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was "External Distraction," a driver recognition error. This driver was looking for a street sign and was not focused on his driving task. Talking on his cell phone was coded as a recognition factor also. The driver did experience work stress. His has to work three jobs per week just make financial ends meet, an emotional factor. This was also his first time on this roadway and he was lost, an experience factor. An illegal maneuver was coded because the driver failed to stop for a red light. His vehicle was in fair condition all around and he felt only neutral about its handling.

The driver of V2 was a 56 year-old male who was transported to the hospital for treatment. He worked three days weekly totaling 30 hours per week. His work schedule rotated, leaving him to works days and nights. On this day, he was commuting from his office, back home. He was not in a hurry. He was traveling 56 kmph (35 mph) in lane three. He reported having a steady green light and said there was a vehicle in the lane to his right. Just prior to entering the intersection, he glanced left and saw V1 out of the corner of his eye traveling too fast to be able to stop for him. He applied the brakes in an attempt to slow down or stop, but was unsuccessful. He couldn't steer right due to other vehicles being in that lane. He claims the trees and bushes to his left caused him not to be able to see V1 until it was too late (sightline restriction). His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling left side damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, across path." The Critical Reason was not coded to this driver. This driver reported being obese, but did not have any other medical issues. He took aspirin daily. A sightline restriction was coded due to trees and shrubbery on the roadside on this driver's left side.