The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a two-way, ten-lane interstate roadway, which was physically divided by a concrete traffic barrier. There were five northbound lanes, with a posted speed of 105 kmph (65 mph). This was a straight, level, asphalt roadway. Conditions were daylight on a weekday afternoon with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal, with periodic congestion.

V1, a 2005 Chrysler Pacifica with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane four. V2, a 2002 Toyota Corolla with one occupant, was traveling ahead of V1 in lane five (HOV lane). V3, a 2005 Chevrolet Malibu with one occupant, was traveling ahead of V2, also in lane five. Traffic in V1's travel lane started to slow. V1 changed lanes to the left, but continued to travel at the same speed. V2 and V3 had come to a complete stop in lane five, due to congestion. The front of V1 made contact with the back of V2. The front of V2 then made contact with the back of V3. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

V1, the Chrysler Pacifica, was driven by a 47-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he had just left a meeting, and was on his way back to the office. The motorist was upset because the meeting did not go very well. He indicated that he was traveling in lane four at about 72 kmph (45 mph), when he noticed traffic starting to slow. A quick survey of traffic revealed that four of the first five travel lanes were congested. The driver believed that the lane to his left was clear, and made a quick decision to change lanes. As soon as the driver had completed his lane change, he saw a stopped vehicle directly in front of him, but he could not stop in time. The motorist said that from his initial vantage point in lane four, he could not see far enough ahead to know that traffic was stopped in lane five.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related recognition error, inadequate surveillance. The driver failed to look far enough ahead. One recognition-related associated factor was that the impending problem was masked by the traffic flow pattern. Another associated factor was emotional-related. The driver was irritated/upset prior to the crash, stemming from an adversarial work relationship involving management. Finally, there were environmental-related factors. There was the presence of rush-hour congestion, and a sightline restriction in the form of traffic, which blocked the driver's view of V2.

V2, the Toyota Corolla, was driven by a 30-year old female, who was transported to the hospital due to injury. She stated that she was on her way to work from her house. According to the motorist, traffic slowed suddenly. Within seconds of coming to a complete stop, the driver was hit from behind. Subsequently, she was pushed into the vehicle in front of her. She said that she never saw the other vehicle prior to impact.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. One associated factor for this driver was the presence of a pre-existing health condition. The driver takes 300mg of the prescription drug Wellbutrin once daily for severe depression. The driver was smoking at the time of the crash. As with V1, there was the presence of rush hour congestion. No additional associated factors were present for this driver.

V3, the Chevy Malibu, was driven by a 35-year old female, who was transported to the hospital due to injury. She stated that she was on her way home from a friend's house, when traffic suddenly slowed. She said that she slammed on her brakes to avoid a collision. As soon as she stopped, the motorist indicated that she heard a crash, which was immediately followed by a vehicle hitting her from behind. The driver was only stopped for a second prior to the impact.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The Critical Precrash Event and the Critical Reason for the Critical Event were not coded to the driver of the Chevy Malibu. One associated factor for this driver was the presence of a pre-existing health condition. The driver takes ibuprofen daily for Polystistic Kidney Disease. As with V1 and V2, there was the presence of rush hour congestion. No additional associated factors were present for this driver.