This three-vehicle rear end collision occurred during early evening daylight hours. Traffic was congested. The collision occurred just before a four-leg intersection on an eight lane, dry, level, asphalt roadway with two left turn pockets in all directions. The roadway is designated a 56 kmph (35 mph). The intersection is controlled by a on-colors signal that was working properly at the time. There also exists a photo enforcement camera on all four legs of the intersection.

Vehicle one (V1) is a 1990 Ford Taurus 4-door sedan, driven by a nineteen (19) year old male with three passengers was traveling east in the number three lane. Vehicle two (V2) is a 1991 Acura Legend 2-door coupe, driven by a fifty five (55) year old male with two passengers was traveling east stopped in the number three lane. Vehicle three (V3) is a 2004 Volvo S-40 4-door sedan, driven by a sixty five (65) year old female was traveling east and stopped in the number three lane just ahead of V2. Traffic ahead of V3 stopped for a red light. The front of V1 impacted the rear of V2. V2 was pushed forward where its front contacted V3's rear plane. The front of V3 then impacted the rear plane of the car in front of it, vehicle four, a 1995 Infinity hatchback. All vehicles came to rest facing east in the number three lane. V1 was towed with major damage. V2 was driven with major damage. V3 and V4 were driven with moderate damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 does not have a valid driver's license. He claimed that the brakes failed however the police officer on scene tested them and found them to have adequate pressure. He was coming from a convenience store going to a relatives home. He was upset and thinking about a personal problem. It was the first time he had driven this vehicle and said he had 6 years of driving experience.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inattention, due to thinking about his personal problem. Inadequate evasive action, inadequate surveillance, misjudgment of speed and gap distance were associative factors for this driver.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.

V3 not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.