This four-vehicle crash occurred on the southbound lanes of a fully controlled urban freeway. There were three southbound lanes and three northbound lanes positively divided by a raised metal guardrail. To the right of these southbound lanes, there was a wide shoulder area for emergency stopping. The bituminous covered roadway was level, straight, and wet. There were heavy rain downpours throughout the morning and afternoon with cloudy overcast weather conditions. The posted speed limit was 80 kmph (50 mph). The crash occurred on a weekday during the late afternoon hours. The roadway was free of any noticeable defects and the traffic flow was congested, normal for this roadway at this rush-hour time of day.

Vehicle one, a 2006 Dodge Stratus 4-door sedan, was traveling southbound in the center lane on the three lane highway when it contacted with its front the back of vehicle two, a 1998 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, also traveling southbound in the center lane. V2, then contacts with its front the rear of vehicle three, a 2000 Honda Civic 2-door coupe, also traveling southbound in the center lane. After the impact with V2, V3 was pushed and enters lane three and is contacted in the rear by vehicle four, a 1995 Jeep Grand Cherokee compact utility, traveling and occupying lane three. The damages to vehicle one was disabling and it was towed as a result. The damages to vehicles two, three, and four were moderate and they were not towed. The police directed the vehicles off scene to continue their investigation and to clear the congested highway. The heavy rain made the investigation difficult. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a 22-year old male, was transported to the hospital and was not available for an interview. There were several attempts made later to contact the driver, but they were not successful. A surrogate interview from the front seat passenger, a 39-year old female was obtained. She stated they were traveling southbound in lane two returning home from a hospital visit. It began to rain heavy downpours so heavy they could hardly see where they were going and the traffic flow was congested. She said, she thought they were traveling too fast. Before she knew it, they ran into the back of the car in front of them. The driver lost control because of the weather, she thinks. The driver and his six passengers were transported to the hospital with various injuries. The most serious were the driver and the 1-year old passenger seated in the second row.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in the same direction with slower steady speed". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded to this vehicle was "driver related, too fast for conditions, rain, wet roads with congested traffic flow". Associated factors include: conversing with passengers, possible distraction, too fast for stop and go congested traffic.

The driver of vehicle two, a 40-year old female, said she had just got on the roadway five minutes ago, a school teacher on her way home from work. The traffic was not moving very fast. The rain with the wet roads made the traffic stop & go. She was in the center lane traveling about 25 mph and the car behind hers hit the back of hers and her car then hit the back of the vehicle in front of her, V3. She said they all were sliding into each other on the wet roads. She felt rested and travels on this road daily. She was not injured.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle.

The driver of vehicle three, a 46-year old female, stated she was traveling southbound when she was rear-ended by the vehicle behind her. Afterwards, her vehicle got pushed into lane three where her vehicle is again struck in the rear. Originally, she was in lane two. She'd taken off work this day. She was not injured.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V3 was "not involved in the first harmful event". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. There were no associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle.