The crash occurred on an interchange ramp to a two-way, fully controlled access, divided highway with a median and metal guardrail. The highway has two lanes in each direction, with a posted speed limit of 113 kph (70 mph). The bituminous ramp curves to the right down a 3% slope, and initially has two marked lanes. Prior to joining the northbound highway, warning signs states that the right lane ends and indicate to merge to the left lane. The ramp joins the highway into the left lane where another two-lane ramp on the right joins the highway into the right lane. Conditions at the time of the weekend afternoon crash were daylight, clear and dry.

V1, a 2004 Honda Element 4 door sedan was driven by a 61 year-old male, with his 52 year-old wife as the front right passenger, and his 14 year-old son in the second seat on the right side. The driver stated that they were on their way from home to spend the afternoon at a lake, traveling northbound on the ramp at 60 mph. A non-contact vehicle was on the ramp in the right lane next to v1, and did not attempt to merge into the left lane. V1 slowed to 50 mph as the marked lane line disappeared and the right lane narrowed and was marked with diagonal stripes indicating the lane had ended. The non-contact vehicle entered the lane occupied by v1, forcing v1 to steer left onto the paved shoulder. V1 successfully avoided the other vehicle. V1 crossed the rumble strips on the shoulder and then contacted gravel. The driver over-steered back to the right and re-entered the road on the left. V1 rotated clockwise 180 degrees, crossed the ramp lane, the gore between the two ramps, the two lanes of the ramp on the right, and left the road on the right side. V1 traveled six meters down a 32% slope and rolled over with the left side leading, one-quarter turn. V1 then rolled back onto its wheels and came to rest facing south on the grass. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver and passengers denied injuries at the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to the driver of v1 was 'this vehicle loss of control due to traveling too fast for conditions.' The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded was 'overcompensation.' A contributing factor coded to this driver was 'successful avoidance maneuver to a previous critical event.' An associated factor coded to the driver of v1 was for 'possible side effects of prescribed medication for high blood pressure and cholesterol.'