Case #2007-151

The crash occurred in the westbound lanes of a two-way, seven-lane roadway, which was divided by a concrete curbed median. There were four westbound lanes, with a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). This was a straight, level, and asphalt street. Conditions were dark with streetlights on a weekday evening. The roads were dry with clear skies. Traffic flow was interrupted by a pedestrian that was walking across the roadway. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

V1, a 1989 Ford F-150 with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane one. V2, a 2006 Toyota Scion Xb with one occupant, was also traveling westbound in lane one, ahead of V1. V3, a 2002 Ford F-150 with one occupant, was traveling in lane one, ahead of V2. All three vehicles were approaching the same intersection. The front of V1 made contact with the back of V2. After impact, the front of V2 was pushed into the back of V3. V2 and V3 were towed due to damage. The driver of V2 was transported to the hospital due to injury.

V1, the Ford F-150, was driven by a 23-year old male, who was not injured. He stated that he was on his way home from work. According to the driver, traffic in his lane was moving steadily toward an intersection with a green light, when suddenly the vehicle in front of him applied the brakes. To the driver of V1, there was no apparent reason for the sudden lane stoppage. The driver assumed the vehicle in front of him was going to keep moving.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related decision error, false assumption of other's actions. The driver falsely assumed that the driver in front of him would continue to proceed due to the green light. An additional associated factor for V1 was the crossing pedestrian, which created a traffic flow interruption.

V2, the Scion Xb, was driven by a 47-year old female, who was transported to the hospital due to injury. The driver was on her way home from work. She stated that she was in the process of slowing down, and had almost come to a stop, when she was hit from behind. The motorist believed that she was stopping for a red light, not a green light.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factor for V2 was a traffic flow interruption.

V3, the Ford F-150, was driven by a 42-year old male, who was not injured. This motorist's statement was considered to be the most accurate account of the crash. He stated that he was heading home from a friend's house. According to the driver, the light was green. The vehicle in front of V3 was attempting to make a right turn at the intersection. A crossing pedestrian caused the lead vehicle to hesitate, stopping forward movement of traffic in lane one. Shortly thereafter, V3 was struck from behind.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. As with V1 and V2, the crossing pedestrian caused a traffic flow interruption. There were no additional associated factors coded to this motorist.