This two-vehicle crash occurred at a four-way intersection controlled by overhead lights on colors with pedestrian lights. The roadway north of the intersection has one lane north and three lanes south. The roadway south has one lane south and three lanes north. The roadway east of the intersection has two westbound travel lanes and a left turn lane, and two westbound lanes. The roadway west of the intersection has two eastbound traffic lanes and a left turn lane, and two westbound lanes. The posted speed limit for all roadways is 56 kmph (35 mph). This crash occurred during morning hours of daylight. The weather was clear with no adverse atmospheric conditions. The roadways are constructed of bituminous asphalt.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1994 Ford Explorer 4x4 with two occupants, was westbound in the number three, left turn lane. V1 was approaching the intersection and attempted to make a left turn. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 KIA Optima four door with four occupants, was eastbound in the number two lane of the eastbound roadway traveling at about 48 kmph (30 mph). The driver of V1 entered the intersection and made a left turn with no avoidance efforts. The driver of V2 attempted to steer left and impacted with the right side of V1. V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest less than 2 meters (6.6 feet) from point of impact. V2 rotated clockwise and came to rest in contact with the right side of V1. V1 was facing generally northwest at final rest. V2 was facing generally southeast at final rest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 32 kmph for V1 and 32 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty eight (38) year old female, stated she and one male passenger, both residents of Mexico, had been shopping and were going back to Mexico. She stated she had a green light, was following another vehicle making a left turn. She just followed and did see V2 until the impact. She stated she drives on this roadway two or three times a month and was familiar with the area. She stated she was in good health, did not require glasses and had taken no medications. She stated she was talking to the passenger at the time of the crash. The impact spun her around clockwise and she stopped. Occupant two was injured and transported to a nearby hospital. The driver was not transported. This driver had slept eight hours the night before in her residence in Mexico. She stated she started driving at age eighteen and did not have any driver education.

The driver of V2, a thirty (30) year-old female and three passengers, had just left her home about 10 minutes before the crash and were going shopping. She was driving in the number two eastbound lane, saw a car complete a left turn approaching her and V1 was behind the turning vehicle. V1 followed and attempted to make a left turn. She attempted to avoid by steering left but said it did not turn much and she impacted with the right side of V1. She said she did not use the brakes because there was not enough time. The driver of V2 stated she was in good health, was wearing prescription contact glasses, had taken no medications and slept 9 hours the night before.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V1 as a driver related factor: inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see).

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle.