This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. The east/west trafficway is straight, level and divided by a curbed median. The westbound approach consists of two through lanes, a right turn lane and a left turn lane. The eastbound approach consists of two through lanes and a left turn lane. The speed limit for this trafficway is 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Chevrolet Tahoe, was westbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 1989 Plymouth Sundance, was stopped eastbound in lane three. V2 entered the intersection, turning left, and the right side was struck by the front of V1. V2 rotated clockwise and the right side struck the right side of V1. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a forty-eight-year-old female, was on her way home from an appointment with a massage therapist. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. This driver stated that she saw V2 stopped but thought that he would wait until she had cleared the intersection.

The driver of V2, a thirty-six-year-old male, was on his way home from a store. Previously, he had been at a dentist's office having a tooth pulled. This driver was well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He has high cholesterol and depression and takes the medications Pravachol and Fluoxetine. This driver stated that he was watching the traffic signal and did not see V1 until just before the crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's assumption that V1 would yield the right-of-way was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; turning left at intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see)."