This two-vehicle crash occurred in the northbound lane of an undivided 3 lane (1 north, and 2 south) straight, bituminous roadway. Southbound there was a downhill grade of two percent and northbound there was an uphill grade of two percent. The crash occurred just north of an intersection with stop signs for the intersecting road but no controls for the north-south traffic. At the time of the weekend early evening crash the roadway was dry, the weather clear and it was daylight. The speed limit was 89 kmph (55 mph) but was not posted.

V1, a 2005 Toyota Prius 4-door sedan occupied by a 77-year-old male driver and a 75-year-old female passenger, had stopped in lane 1, the southbound through lane, to retrieve their mail from their mailbox across the street from their house. Forward of V1's position, there were three cars stopped in lane two (which was a left turn lane) waiting to turn left at the upcoming intersection. After waiting for traffic to clear (from both the rear and forward position), the driver of V1 attempted to turn left into his driveway. As V1 crossed over the northbound lane, its right rear was struck by the front of V2. V2 was a 1997 Ford Ranger pickup truck that had been traveling north. After impact, V1 rotated clockwise and came to rest in the driveway facing south. V2 braked to a stop and came to rest in the northbound lane facing north. No one was transported due to injury. V1 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 stated that he had pulled over to get his mail and then waited 1-2 minutes for traffic to clear so he could turn left and pull into his driveway. He said he never saw V2 coming. He thought it was clear. He has done this almost daily for a number of years.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling - turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see). Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include the use of prescription medications to control diabetes and high blood pressure, and impending problem masked by traffic flow pattern.

The driver of V2, a 40-year old female, stated that she had just chopped some firewood at a friend's house and loaded it into her truck. She was going to the store and was northbound in lane 1 at about 50 mph with oncoming traffic stopped in the left turn lane when she went through the intersection. Suddenly V1 pulled across her lane and she braked heavily. She could not steer left due to oncoming traffic. She "locked up" her brakes and steered straight ahead but could not avoid hitting V1. She said she doesn't like to come this way because traffic has become heavy at that intersection and there are no controls for the north-south traffic.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction-over the left lane line." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. Some associated factors coded to the driver of V2 include the cargo weight shifting forward as the driver tried to brake, the lack of tread on the rear tires, the driver being fatigued at the start of the trip/time of the crash, the driver's discomfort with the traffic flow, the impending problem masked by other traffic, and the driver's being unfamiliar with the roadway.