This two-vehicle crash occurred at an intersection with traffic signals. The east/west road is a 5-lane undivided (two-way traffic) straight asphalt roadway. The speed limit for the east/west roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). The north/south roadway is a three-lane (two-way traffic) undivided roadway. The speed limit for the north/south is 48 kph (30 mph). Both roadways are straight and level. The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash. It was daylight at the time of the crash and there was little traffic on the roadways.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Honda Pilot with one occupant, was traveling west in the second lane of traffic approaching the intersection of both roadways. Vehicle two (V 2), a 2000 Toyota Corolla with one occupant, was traveling north in the first lane. At the intersection, the front of V1 struck the right side of V2. V2 rotated counterclockwise, V1 rotated clockwise and the left side of V1 struck the right side of V2. Both vehicles moved to the northwest corner of the intersection. V2 departed the roadway and the front struck a chain link fence (maximum height 130 cm (51 inches). V2 came to rest partially in the parking lot, facing northwest. V1 came to rest in the southbound lane one, facing northeast. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 23-year old male drove V1. He said he did not see V2 until it appeared right in front of him. He said he applied his brakes but was too close. He is in general good health, does not take any medication and was well rested. He had left his residence within ten minutes prior to the crash and was on his way to pick up a friend. He said he was not in a hurry. A witness stated that V1 accelerated in an attempt to pass through the intersection before the signal turned red.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling-crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded: driver related factor - inadequate surveillance.

A 34-year old female drove V2. She stated she was in the first lane, traveling at a normal rate of speed and never saw V1 until she got hit. She is a full time student and was heading from her nearby school/college to a vehicle repair shop for a state inspection. She does not take any medication and is in good heath. She drives on the roadway on a weekly basis and is familiar with the area.

The critical pre crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment - from crossing street, across path. No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle.