This two-vehicle crash occurred on a five-lane, straight and level roadway at a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. In the westbound direction, this roadway consists of two through lanes and a left turn lane. The speed limit on this roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Mack single-unit truck, was westbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Ford Taurus, was westbound in lane one in front of V1. Both vehicles had changed lanes to the left as they approached the intersection due to a street sweeper in lane one. V2 stopped at the intersection. The front of V1 struck the back of V2. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-nine-year-old male, was on his way from another city to a local college. He was well rested and healthy. He travels this route several times each month and has been driving this class of vehicle for sixteen years. This driver stated that he noticed the signal turn yellow but thought that V2 would continue through the light.

The driver of V2, a sixty-three-year-old male, was traveling with his sixty-six-year-old wife from their home to a hospital to visit their son. This driver was in fairly good health, well rested and comfortable with his vehicle and passenger. He travels this route weekly. This driver stated that he began to slow down when the signal turned yellow and was stopped for five to ten seconds when the crash occurred.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; other vehicle stopped." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; false assumption of other's actions."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."