The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. The north/south roadway was a two-way, two-lane undivided street, with a posted speed of 48 kmph (30 mph). The east/west roadway was a seven-lane divided street, with a posted speed of 64 kmph (40 mph). There were three westbound lanes and four eastbound lanes. The north/south roadway was controlled by a stop sign. These were straight, level, asphalt roads. Conditions were daylight on a weekday evening with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 2003 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan with four occupants, was traveling southbound in lane one. V2, a 1995 Nissan Maxima 4-door sedan with four occupants, was traveling westbound in lane two. Both vehicles were approaching the same intersection. As the two vehicles entered the intersection, the front of V2 struck the left side of V1. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 24 kmph for V1 and 24 kmph for V2.

The Toyota Corolla was driven by a 21-year old male who was not injured. He stated that he and his girlfriend had been asked by an acquaintance of his girlfriend to give them a ride to their hotel. The driver explained that he did not know the two passengers very well, and was uncomfortable having them in the car, but agreed to drop them off. He said that as he approached the intersection, a parked vehicle was blocking his view of a stop sign. By the time the driver noticed the stop sign, he was committed to the intersection. The driver took a quick look to his left, hoping that no one was coming. Then he saw the other motorist and knew he was about to get hit. He cranked the wheel to the right, away from the other car, but it was too late. The driver said he felt a second bump after the first impact, and thought that his tire or rim had hit the center median. The driver further indicated that the two passengers in the back seat fled the scene on foot after the crash, due to an outstanding warrant.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related recognition error, inadequate surveillance, because the driver did not see the stop sign until it was too late. It was believed that the driver was distracted from the driving task, because he was worried about the passengers in the back seat, he was involved in a conversation with the passengers, and he was thinking about a future event (upcoming arrival of a newborn child). One physical factor for the driver was vision impairment. The motorist was not wearing his corrective lenses at the time of the crash. Emotional-related factors included work related stress, resulting from learning a new position. In addition, it is the driver's normal driving pattern to be in a hurry. Finally, the driver was unfamiliar with roadway he was traveling.

The Nissan Maxima was driven by a 28-year old male who was transported to the hospital due to injury. He stated that he was in the area on vacation, visiting his girlfriend. The driver said that he and his passengers had spent the day at the beach, and were on their way home at the time of the crash. According to the motorist, the other driver came speeding out of a side street, at an estimated speed of 96 kmph (60 mph). The motorist pointed out that the other driver not only ignored the stop sign, but also a right-turn only regulatory sign. He explained that he didn't see the other driver until the last second, at which time he hit his brakes but could do nothing to prevent the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle encroachment from crossing street, turning into opposite direction." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. One physical-related factor for the driver included a pre-existing health condition. The driver has high blood pressure, but does not take medication for the condition. A recognition-related factor included a social conversation that the driver was having with his passenger(s). As with V1, the driver of V2 was unfamiliar with the roadway he was traveling.