This two-vehicle crash occurred in the evening in a four-legged, flashing traffic signal-controlled intersection. The north/south trafficway is divided and straight. The southbound lanes are level and consist of one through lane, one left turn lane and one right turn lane. The speed limit for this trafficway is 40 kmph (25 mph). The east/west roadway is undivided and straight. The eastbound lanes have a downhill grade and consist of one through lane, one left turn lane and one right turn lane. The speed limit for this roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph). It was dark with streetlights on at the time of this crash with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1999 GMC Sonoma pickup, was southbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Dodge Intrepid, was eastbound in lane two. In the intersection, the front of V1 struck the left side of V2. The vehicles rotated and the right side of V1 struck the left side of V2. V2 traveled off the southeast corner of the intersection and the front struck a sign post and a utility pole guy wire. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a -year-old male, was not interviewed. No further information is available for this driver.

The driver of V2, a twenty-four-year-old female, was on her way home from work. She was well rested, healthy and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she was thinking about her impending divorce and had argued with her spouse before leaving for work that morning. She also stated that her signal was flashing yellow and that she saw V1 but thought that it would stop for its flashing red signal.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's failure to obey a traffic control device was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "driver related factor; false assumption of other's actions."