This two-vehicle crash occurred in the early afternoon in the middle of a T-intersection. The east/west direction of travel was a two-way, not physically divided roadway. The eastbound roadway was composed of a single lane, while the westbound roadway consisted of three lanes, including a left-only turning lane. There was a downhill grade for traffic heading west and the bituminous roadway was straight. The north/south direction of travel was a two-lane roadway, one in each direction, and was not physically divided. There was an uphill grade for vehicles heading south, as well as a curve to the right. There were no traffic control signals present on the east/west roadway. The posted speed limit was 56kmph (35mph). There were no adverse atmospheric conditions the time of the crash and the roadway was dry. No traffic flow problems were evident at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Ford Ranger, was heading west in lane three intending to make a left at the intersection. Vehicle two (V2), a 1991 Mercedes 300E, was traveling east in lane one, intending to continue straight through the intersection. As V1 attempted to make a left, the front of the vehicle struck the left side of V2. After the impact V1 continued heading south and came to final rest on the side of the southbound roadway. V2 was pushed to the side of the eastbound roadway where it came to final rest. V1 was driven from the scene, while V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of V1, a 78 year-old male, did not suffer any injuries as a result of the crash and did not require any medical attention. There were no other occupants in the vehicle at the time of the crash. The driver claimed that he came to a complete stop in the left-turn lane for approximately 2 seconds before proceeding. He did not see the oncoming vehicle until the last second. He believed that the grade of the roadway hindered his view of the approaching car.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason was coded as: inadequate surveillance (looked but did not see). The only associated factor was the hillcrest, which restricted the driver's view of approaching traffic.

The driver of V2, a 52 year-old male, was transported to a medical facility for observation (it is unknown if he actually suffered any injuries). There were no other occupants in the vehicle when the crash occurred. After numerous attempts, an interview could not be obtained from this driver.

The Critical Precrash Event coded to this vehicle was: other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction over left lane line. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The only known associated factor was the hillcrest, which restricted the driver's view of approaching traffic.