This three-vehicle crash occurred on a straight, undivided, two-lane roadway with an uphill grade. The speed limit for this roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1995 Buick Century, was northbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 1996 Oldsmobile Cutlass, was stopped northbound in lane one in front of V1 and vehicle three (V3), a 2000 Ford Expedition, was stopped in front of V2. The front of V1 struck the back of V2. V2 moved forward and the front struck the back of V3. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a twenty-eight-year-old female, was traveling with female passenger in the front seat and four children in the second seat. This driver stated that "the kids started screaming" and she turned around to discipline them. She had noticed the vehicle in front of her but did not realize that it was stopped. This driver steered to the left in an attempt to avoid the crash.

The driver of V2, a nineteen-year-old male, was on his way from his home to a friend's house. He was healthy, well rested and familiar with his vehicle. He travels this route weekly. This driver stated that he did not see V1 prior to the crash.

The driver of V3, a thirty-five-year-old female, was traveling with two passengers. This driver was not interviewed. No further information is available for this driver.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; other vehicle stopped." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; internal distraction."

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "other motor vehicle in lane; traveling in same direction with higher speed." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle."

The critical pre-crash event for V3 was coded as "not involved first harmful event." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V3 was "not coded to this vehicle."