This crash occurred in a 4-way controlled intersection. All the roads involved had one lane going in each direction. The north and south approach to the intersection were controlled by a stop sign. All the roads involved were straight, level, bituminous and had a posted speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred in the early afternoon of a weekday just prior to a holiday weekend. The skies were cloudy and the on-and-off rain in the morning have made the roads wet. The traffic flow was moving steadily.

V1, a 1993 Honda Accord 4-door with two occupants was going south through the intersection in lane one intending on continuing south. V2, a 2000 Chevrolet Malibu 4-door with one occupant was going west through the intersection in lane one intending on continuing west. As V1 approached the intersection, he slowed down but did not stop for the stop sign and proceeded through the intersection. At the same time V2 was continuing west through the intersection at a constant speed. The front of V1 collided into the left rear of V2 and the force of the collision forced the right rear of V2 to strike a wooden pole, knocking it down. V2 came to final rest off the roadway where the pole originally stood. V1 came to final rest at approximately point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

V1, the Honda Accord was driven by a 20-year-old male who reported no injuries on the accident scene. His passenger a 22-year-old male also reported no injuries on the accident scene. The driver stated that him and his friend were heading to their friends house after running to a drug store to get cigarettes. When he got to the intersection, he slowed down, the intersection appeared to be clear so he did not stop and proceeded through. All of a sudden the driver said that he saw V2 coming from his right. He attempted to brake to avoid the collision but was unsuccessfully. The front of V1 struck the left rear of V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded as, "This vehicle traveling- crossing over (passing through) intersection". The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as, "Inadequate surveillance- looked but did not see". The driver stated that he continued through the intersection without coming to a complete stop because he thought the intersection was clear and although he looked in that direction he did not see the vehicle coming. The other associated factor that was coded to this driver includes illegal maneuver of failure to stop for traffic control device, the stop sign. Also coded to this driver is the wet roads, cloudy and rainy weather conditions.

V2, the Chevy Malibu was driven by a 44-year-old female who reported possible injuries and was transported to a medical facility from the crash scene. The driver was traveling west through the intersection when she was struck by V1. The force of the crash pushed V2 into a pole approximately 6 meters south west of point of impact. V2 partially struck down the wooden pole and came to final rest at this second impact. After many attempts the researcher was unable to reach the driver for an interview.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded as, "Other vehicle encroachment- from crossing street, across path". No Critical Reason for Critical Pre-crash Event was coded to this vehicle. Without a driver interview the only associated factor that could be coded to this vehicle is the wet roads due to the cloudy and rainy weather conditions.