The crash occurred at an intersection in the eastbound lanes of a suburban roadway. At the intersection, the roadway had three westbound lanes and two eastbound lanes. The intersection was signal-controlled with pedestrian lights and crosswalks. The roadway had a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). Conditions were daylight and dry with clear skies. The setting was early afternoon hours on a weekday.

Vehicle one was a 2002 Volkswagen Jetta sedan stopped facing west in lane three waiting to turn left. Vehicle two was a 2007 Toyota Camry sedan stopped facing east in lane one waiting to go straight. Vehicle three was a 2002 Jeep Grand Cherokee sport utility that decelerated to a stop in lane three of the northbound roadway. The light turned green for east and westbound traffic. V1 proceeded to turn left as V2 proceeded straight. The front of V1 impacted the left front plane of V2. V2 rotated clockwise 180 degrees and came to rest in the intersection. V1 continued south and impacted the front of V3, which was stopped at the intersection. V1 and V3 came to rest at impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.

The Volkswagen Jetta (V1) was driven by a 19-year old female who was treated on scene for non-incapacitating injuries. She stated that she was heading to a store from school and turning left at the intersection. She never saw the other vehicle and did not remember the second event with V3. She said she had been stopped for around 30 seconds at the light before turning. Her estimated speed at impact was 16 kmph (10 mph). It was not known why the driver of V1 did not see V2 prior to the impact. The Volkswagen sedan was towed due to damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling - turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason was a driver related factor of inadequate surveillance (failed to look). This driver was not employed, as she was a full time student. She noted that she had several previous moving traffic violations, which had caused her insurance rates to increase.

The Toyota Camry (V2) was driven by a 42-year old female who suffered possible injuries. She stated that she was returning to work from lunch and driving straight through the intersection. She had waited about a minute for the light to turn green before proceeding. She never saw the other vehicle and didn't have a chance to react. Her estimated speed at impact was 24 kmph (15 mph). The Toyota sedan was towed due to damage.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line. No Critical Reason was coded to this driver. The driver was taking medications for a thyroid condition. She wore contact lenses for nearsightedness.

The Jeep Grand Cherokee (V3) was driven by a 21-year old female who was not injured. She stated that she was heading to work from home and had come to a stop at an intersection. She witnessed the crash occur in front of her, followed by a subsequent head on collision with one of the vehicles. She said she had been stopped three to four seconds at the light before the crash. Her vehicle was not towed and continued in service after the crash.

No Critical Pre-crash Event or Reason was coded to this vehicle because it was not involved in the first harmful event. This driver wore contact lenses for nearsightedness. No other factors were coded to this driver.