The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a two-way, ten-lane interstate roadway that was physically divided by a concrete traffic barrier. There were five northbound lanes, with a posted speed of 105 kmph (65 mph). This was a straight, level, asphalt roadway. Conditions were dark with streetlights in the early morning hours of a weekday. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 1998 Mercury Mystique with two occupants, was traveling northbound in lane one. The driver drifted off of the right side of the roadway. The front of V1 made contact first with a guardrail, then with a small signpost and then the left side hit the guardrail. The vehicle continued to travel northbound into a grassy field, turning to the northeast as it traveled down an embankment. V1 came to final rest at the bottom of the embankment. The vehicle was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is No PAR obtained (created) for V1.

The Mercury Mystique was driven by a 29-year old male, who refused treatment. He stated that he and his girlfriend were on their way home from a friend's house, where they had been celebrating the return visit of an out-of-state buddy. The driver and his buddy used to be in a band together, and the reunion gave them the opportunity to play again, which they did throughout the night until early the next morning. The driver indicated that he and his girlfriend slept for a few hours at the friend's house before making the return trip home. The driver indicated that he was traveling in lane one, when he was suddenly cut off by another vehicle. Apparently, the other car quickly changed lanes to get into the exit lane, forcing him off the road.

The physical evidence and other details of the crash did not support the driver's claim. When the researcher initially approached the vehicle at the scene, the driver and passenger were both sleeping inside the vehicle. Given the severity of the crash, this was an odd behavior. The driver also insisted that he was traveling in the far right lane, and that he was familiar with the roadway. Based on the driver's destination, he was in the wrong travel lane. He should not have been traveling in the exit lane if he were planning to continue northbound. There was also an issue of sleep deprivation. When questioned, the passenger said she was asleep at the time of the crash, and could not verify the events. The driver said he got three hours of sleep before driving, but it seemed more likely that he and his passenger had not slept at all that night. It was obvious on-scene that the two occupants were very tired. The most compelling evidence was the shallow departure angle of the vehicle. V1 departed the roadway at an angle of seven degrees. This suggests that the driver drifted off the roadway rather than swerved to avoid another vehicle.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related critical non-performance error, sleeping. The driver fell asleep, driving off the right side of the roadway. There were no associated factors coded to this driver.