This crash occurred in the afternoon of a weekend in the middle of busy four-way intersection. The intersection consisted of an east/west six-lane undivided roadway and a four-lane north/south roadway controlled by properly functioning traffic signals. The east/west roadway was bituminous and level with an arcing curve (to the left in the westbound direction). The roadway had a speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The roadway was wet from melting snow and the weather was cloudy and overcast.

V1, a 2007 Chevy Uplander with two occupants, was westbound in lane three approaching the intersection where it intended to turn left. V2, a 2001 Toyota Corolla with one occupant, was eastbound in lane two, approaching the same intersection where it intended to go straight. V1 failed to yield the right of way and began its left turn as V2 entered the intersection. The right front corner of V1 struck the front of V2 in the middle of the intersection. Both vehicles came to a rest in the middle of the intersection near the point of impact. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a 36-year-old female was uninjured in the crash. Her 34-year-old passenger in the right front seat was also uninjured in the crash. She stated that she did not see V2 until after she began her turn. By the time she saw him it was to late and the crash could not be avoided.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason was a driver related error, inadequate surveillance (failed to look far enough ahead). An internal distraction was coded as the driver and her husband were coming back from a fast food restaurant and the driver was eating at the time of the crash. Inexperience was also coded along with the wet roads as the driver rarely travels this roadway.

The driver of V2, a 41-year-old male was transported due to minor injuries. He advised that he was approaching the intersection at a constant rate of speed. He saw V2 enter the intersection without yielding and turn in front of him. He braked but could not avoid the collision.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from opposite direction, over left lane. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The only associated factor coded to V2 was the wet roads.