Case 2007-163

The crash occurred on an undivided two-lane east/westbound roadway. There was one lane in each direction of the very narrow road without shoulders. The asphalt road was wet from earlier rainfall, and level with multiple curves first right and then left. The radius of curvature was 81m for the right curve and 73m for the left curve. There was no super-elevation. There were no traffic control devices and the posted speed limit was 48kmph/30mph. The crash happened early on a weekend evening after dark under cloudy skies. The roadway was very dark and not lighted. Traffic flow was very light. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

V1, a 1992 Toyota Camry four-door with one occupant was traveling eastbound. V1 lost traction skidded longitudinally with a rotation of less than 30 degrees and traveled off the left edge of the road, which was a swampy area with many saplings and trees of various sizes and a downhill slope of approximately 25% leading to waist deep swamp. The vehicle's front struck smaller trees (Event 1) causing the vehicle to rotate in a counter-clockwise direction. The vehicle's right side struck a 6cm tree bowing it downward as it travelled horizontally off the edge of the road (Event 2). As the vehicle tripped over onto its right side (Event 4) branches falling from the trees struck the left front top near the a pillar (Event 3). The vehicle came to rest about 7m north of the road facing west at the bottom of the embankment against two 30cm trees, which prevented it from landing upside down in the swampy waters. The vehicle was towed from the scene due to damage. (NOTE: Two wreckers knocked down some of the trees on scene while retrieving the vehicle and possibly also caused some of the damage to the vehicle making the researcher's vehicle inspection and scene assessment very difficult.)

V1, the Toyota Camry, was driven by a 16-year old female who was not injured. The driver reported that she had just left her boyfriend's home and that she was just driving below the speed limit with no specific destination. She denied having concerns but her facial expression and tone indicated that she was probably upset. She said she was not familiar with the road and had only been driving about two months. She added that it was not raining but the road was wet and very dark. The driver also said that as she traveling eastbound in the curve to the right she felt the vehicle lose traction and begin to fishtail. She admitted that she panicked (her own words) and began braking (unknown lockup) and steering left in an unsuccessful attempt to try to regain control before it departed the road on the left.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was driver related too fast for curve. Associated factors were assigned to V1 for driver, decision, too fast for conditions, did not realize caution was required (partially due to inexperience); for driver, behavior performance/experience, panic and overcompensation (according to her statements to police and the researcher); frequency of driving the road (she told police it was her first time on that road and told the researcher she rarely drove on it); for being an inexperienced driver (only two months); and for other, highway related factors very narrow road with no shoulders, wet surface, and other - specify - very dark, not lighted road.