This four-vehicle daytime collision occurred heading north on a north/south roadway. The roadway has two lanes of travel separated by a center two-way left turn lane. There is parking on both sides of the roadway. The asphalt-paved roadway was dry, straight and level. The speed limit for the roadway is 48 kmph (30 mph). At the time of the crash the sky was cloudy. Northbound traffic was congested and backed up from an intersection due to a red light.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1989 Ford Taurus sedan driven by a eighty seven (87) year old female, was headed north in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2003 Ford Focus station wagon driven by a sixty one (61) year old female, was stopped in lane one for the control signal. Vehicle three (V3), a 1995 Dodge Caravan driven by a thirty eight (38) year old male, was also stopped in lane one for the traffic control signal. Vehicle four (V4), a 2000 Ford Crown Victoria sedan driven by a forty two (42) year old male being used as a taxi with one passenger, was forward of V3 in lane one stopped in traffic backed up for the traffic light. The driver of V1 thinking she was applying the brake to stop for traffic was in fact applying the accelerator and impacted the back of V2 with the front of V1. V2 was then pushed into the back of V3. The front of V3 also impacted the back of V4. V3 came to rest with the front in contact with the back of V4 and V2 into the back end of V3. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. V3 and V4 drove away from the scene. No driver was transported for injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The critical reason for the critical event was coded: Driver related factor, Poor directional control (e.g. failure to control vehicle with skill ordinarily expected). The driver of V1 was confused as to the placement of her foot to the brake pedal, and was under the impression she was applying the brakes and was instead applying the accelerator.

The critical pre-crash event coded for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical event is not coded to this vehicle.

V3 & V4 were not involved in the first harmful event and there is not coded for critical pre-crash event or reason coded to these vehicles.