This two-vehicle crash occurred on a divided trafficway on a weekday morning at a 5-leg intersection with traffic lights. The speed limit for this trafficway is 56 kmph (35 mph). Both roadways have a slight left curvature prior to the intersection. The road surface was dry and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Honda Civic, was traveling west in lane four of the westbound lanes attempting a left turn. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Ford E250 van, was traveling east in the second lane, attempting to pass through the intersection. In the intersection, the front of V1 impacted with the left side of V2. Both vehicles rotated counter clockwise. V1 came to rest within the intersection, facing south. V2 continued to rotate and move west until it came to rest within the eastbound lanes, east of V1, facing south. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 27-year old female drove V1, the 2003 Honda Civic. She is in good health and does not take any medications. The driver usually leaves the driving to her husband and does not drive too often. She moved to the area only four months prior and is not too familiar with the area. It was the first time that she drove on this roadway. On this morning she got up and was driving her husband to an appointment. She said she felt not fully awake at the time of the crash. The driver further stated she was looking into the turning direction and did not pay enough attention to the oncoming traffic.

The critical pre crash event for V1 was coded "turning left at an intersection". The critical reason for the critical event was coded "inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see)." This driver's fatigue was an associated factor in this crash.

A 32-year old male drove V2, the 2006 Ford E250. An electric company uses this vehicle as a work van. The driver and right front occupant were electricians, heading from one customer to another. He was familiar with the area and the vehicle. He stated he was driving a van like this for 2 years.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded "other vehicle encroachment-from opposite direction-over left lane line." No critical reason for the critical event was coded to this vehicle. This driver's inadequate surveillance was an associated factor in this crash.