The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a four-lane undivided roadway. There were two lanes in each direction of the dry, straight, level, asphalt roadway. The posted speed limit was 56kph (35mph). The crash occurred during the afternoon rush hour of a weekday under clear skies with heavy traffic flow.

V1, a 2001 Saturn SL four door with one occupant was northbound in lane two. V2, a 2007 Kenworth T300 single unit box truck with one occupant was southbound in lane two. A witness was northbound in lane one slightly behind V1. V1 signaled and started to move to the right to northbound lane one. According to the witness and driver of V2, the driver of V1 was talking on a cell phone. The witness honked her horn to prevent V1 from colliding with her and veered to the right striking the curb with no damage to her vehicle. V1 veered back to the left in a successful avoidance of a previous critical event. V1 braked with lockup, skidded across the double yellow lane markers and its front left corner struck the left back wheel of V2 in V2's lane of travel. V1 came to rest in northbound lane one facing northeast about 5 meters from impact. It had to be towed from the scene. V2 drove to the right to private property and stopped about 10 meters from impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Saturn SL was driven by an 18-year old female who received non-incapacitating injuries and was transported to a hospital. The driver said she had just left school and was traveling at the speed limit. She denied that she was talking on her cell phone, which in the researcher's opinion was dishonest, based on the statements of the witness and other driver. She said she wanted to move from lane two to lane one, so she signaled and started to move to the right without seeing the witness behind her in lane one. She added that, when she heard the witness honk her horn, she overcompensated when she veered back to the left and applied her brakes. She said she was unable to stop before striking V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling over the lane line on the left side of the travel lane". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was driver related "overcompensation". Associated factors were assigned to V1 for: driver behavior, recognition, driver inattention, she was conversing with an unknown person on a cell phone; for exterior factor from the right rear the witness honking her horn; and for performance and inexperience. The driver overcompensated in her avoidance maneuver and had only two years driving experience.

V2 the Kenworth T300 was driven by a 42-year old male who was not injured. He reported that he was traveling about 40kph (25mph) from a delivery point to the post office. He said he saw V1 nearly strike the witness when it tried to change lanes. He added that he could see the driver of V1 talking on a cell phone as she was driving. The driver stated that when V1 veered and skidded toward his vehicle there was nothing he could do, due to traffic to his right, to avoid being struck and that he did not have time to apply his brakes.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment from the opposite direction over the left lane line". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle and there were no associated factors.