The crash occurred on a two-way, two-lane, straight, bituminous, rural road with a statutory speed limit of 89 kmh (55 mph). Conditions at the time of the weekday, morning crash were daylight, cloudy and dry.

V1, a 1999 Chevrolet Monte Carlo 2 door coupe driven by an 18 year-old female was westbound on the road on her way home after spending the night at a friend's house. The driver stated that she fell asleep at the wheel. V1 left the road on the right side to the unpaved shoulder. The right side of v1 sideswiped a metal guardrail for 10 meters. The driver woke up, steered left and V1 reentered the road on the right, crossed both lanes and left the road on the left side while rotating counterclockwise. The left front of v1 struck and broke a road sign with a 15cm diameter metal post. V1 continued down an embankment where the left back struck a 32 cm diameter tree. V1 then struck a tree stump with the left back, rotated counterclockwise striking the embankment with the left front and continued on to strike a tree with the right back. V1 rotated clockwise and came to final rest facing south. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. The fully restrained driver denied injuries at the scene. The 19 year-old female front right fully restrained passenger was injured. The 17 year-old unrestrained male in the rear center seat was ejected through the backlight and came to rest in the eastbound travel lane of the road. Both passengers were transported from the scene to a local trauma center. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The Precrash Critical Event coded to v1 was 'this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side.' The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded was 'a driver related error of critical non-performance-asleep.' A Contributing Factor coded to this driver was 'fatigue'. The driver stated that she slept only one hour the previous night. 'Overcompensation' was also coded. The driver woke up at the first impact and then steered back to the left and off the edge of the road on the left side, causing 5 additional impacts. An Associated factor coded was for 'inexperience', as the driver had only been licensed to drive for six months.