The single vehicle, weekday, morning crash occurred off the east side of a straight, bituminous, 2 lane, 2 way, north-south roadway. At the time of the crash it was daylight, clear and the roadway was dry. Traffic was moderate. The posted speed limit was 89 kmh (55 mph).

V1, a 2007 Ford Focus 4 door solely occupied by a 67 year old female driver, was northbound on a downhill grade >2% in lane one of the roadway described above. V1 drifted left of center into the southbound lane then drifted back into the northbound lane. V1 then gradually exited the roadway to the right, contacted a culvert/raised edge of a driveway and "ramped" over the driveway, getting airborne. While in the air, V1 rotated slightly counterclockwise while leaning towards the passenger side. V1 landed on the roadside and rolled 2/4 turns to the right while continuing to rotate counterclockwise. V1 bounced and slid on its roof north then struck a tree >10cm with its driver's side at the driver's door. V1, while still on its roof, then rotated clockwise around the tree coming to rest upside down pointing east-southeast. The driver was injured and transported. V1 was towed. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver stated that she was enroute to a scheduled doctor's appointment and was going about 45-50mph. She said she felt "tired" that morning and was a "slow waker". She said that she passed out and didn't remember leaving the roadway but woke up while she was flying through the air. She said she doesn't remember anything else about the crash and woke up periodically as she was being removed from the car. She said that a family member told her that she appeared "tired" at the breakfast table shortly before she left home.

A witness at the scene who had followed V1 for 3-4 miles stated that she noticed V1 changing speeds and wondered if the driver was drowsy. The witness saw V1 drift over the centerline but made no immediate attempt to return to its own lane even when oncoming traffic had to take avoidance actions. The witness saw V1 drift back into her own lane then off the right side of the road. The witness never saw any brake lights or avoidance actions but made statements reinforcing the crash description above.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side". The Critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was the driver related factor of sleeping, that is, actually asleep. Some contributing factors include the driver's pre-existing medical condition of diabetes, leading to low blood sugar, which is believed to have made the driver pass out and the driver's fatigue prior to the trip. Others may include her failure to wear glasses required as a restriction on her driver's license, a prior sleep apnea condition and her lack of driver's education.