This three-vehicle crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a divided roadway. The southbound direction consisted of two through lanes. The roadway was straight, level and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The crash occurred during daylight hours with lunchtime traffic congestion. Traffic was stopped for a controlled intersection just south of the crash scene.

Vehicle one (V1), a 1997 Isuzu Rodeo with only the driver present, was southbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Nissan Xterra with only the driver present, was stopped southbound in lane two, in front of V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 2004 Ford Freestar with only the driver present, was also stopped southbound in lane two, in front of V2. V1 failed to stop for traffic and the front of V1 struck the rear of V2. V2 was propelled forward where the front of V2 struck the rear of V3. All three vehicles came to rest in lane two facing south. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage and V3 was driven from the scene before the researcher arrived. The drivers of V1 and V2 were transported. Police Reported Travel Speed is 56 kmph for V1 and 56 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-year-old female, was driving from dropping off her children and on her way to lunch when the crash occurred. She stated she glanced down and the next thing she knew the airbags had gone off. The driver was rested, drives this route weekly and is very comfortable with this vehicle. The driver stated being in good health and takes no medications. She was a little concerned about the closing of a house.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with lower steady speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: internal distraction. Inadequate surveillance and congested traffic were associative factors.

The driver of V2, a twenty-year-old female, was on her way to work from home when the crash occurred. She stated being rested, drives this route daily and is very comfortable with this vehicle. The driver stated being in good health but does take medication that includes Lamictal and Abilify. She saw V1 approaching thru the inside rear view mirror. She released the brake and rolled forward prior to impact.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane-traveling in same direction with higher speed. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V3, a sixty-year-old male, was in between two different working locations when the crash occurred. He stated being rested, drives this route rarely and is very comfortable with this vehicle. He states being in good health but having high blood pressure and taking medication for it.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.