The crash occurred in the intersection of an undivided north/south roadway and an undivided east/west roadway. South of the intersection the north/south road was marked as two lanes southbound, and two lanes northbound with one being a left turn-only lane. North of the intersection this road had one northbound lane, and two southbound lanes with one being a left turn-only lane. West of the intersection there were two westbound lanes, and three eastbound lanes: an eastbound left turn-only lane, an eastbound through lane, and an eastbound right turn-only lane. East of the intersection there was one eastbound lane and three westbound lanes: two through lanes and a left turn-only lane. Both roadways were asphalt, straight and dry. The east/west road was level. The north/south road was level in the intersection, and had a 4 percent slope downhill for northbound traffic and a 4 percent slope downhill for southbound traffic. The posted speed limit was 48kmph/30mph and traffic in all directions was controlled by overhanging stop and go controls without pedestrian control. Traffic was light when the crash occurred early on a weekend morning under clear skies.

V1, a 2000 Dodge Dakota pickup truck with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane one. V2, a 2001 Cadillac Seville four door sedan with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane two. Both drivers claimed that they had a green light and that they were traveling straight through the intersection. The traffic control signals were working properly. Neither driver took any evasive actions. The front of V1 struck the right side of V2, pushing V2 northward and causing V2 rotate longitudinally in a clockwise direction. Both vehicles traveled approximately 11m northeast. V1 came to rest facing northeast just east of the intersection and straddling westbound lanes two and three. V2 came to rest facing southwest parallel to V1's right side. The right front of V1 was still in contact with the right rear of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Dodge Dakota, was driven by a 35-year old male who was coded for possible injury and transported to a hospital. The driver reported that he was traveling about 56kmph/35mph from breakfast to his office. He advised that he was intending to go straight through the intersection. He said that he had a green light as he approached the intersection and that he was adjusting his vehicle's CD player and looking down at the speedometer. He added that he never slowed down or saw V2 and thus took no evasive actions prior to impact. He added that he did not know from which direction V2 came. The driver was dazed and uncertain at the scene when initially questioned.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was other vehicle encroachment from crossing street across path. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle; however, there were several associated factors coded to the driver of V1. He was by his own admission adjusting his CD player and glancing down at his speedometer and never saw V2. He failed to look to either side ahead as he approached the intersection. Evidence at the scene, the point of impact, and the fact that two other eastbound vehicles passed through the intersection ahead of V2, indicated that it was most likely that V1 had a red light. He failed to stop for a red light, an illegal maneuver. Additional factors were the use of prescription medication to control diabetes and work related stress due to work hazards.

V2, the Cadillac Seville, was driven by a 32-year old female who was also coded for possible injury and transported to a hospital. The driver reported that she did not know her speed as she was traveling eastbound in lane two from home to work. She said she had been stopped at the red light in that lane behind two other vehicles. She said she saw the light turn green and the two vehicles ahead of her proceeded straight through the intersection. She said she was accelerating as she approached the intersection and that she never saw V1 and took no evasive actions before being struck. She was not sure from which direction V1 came.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was this vehicle traveling, passing through intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as inadequate surveillance. One associated factor coded to this driver was unfamiliarity with the roadway, as it was the driver's first time on this roadway.