The crash occurred in the intersection of an undivided five-lane east/west bound roadway with an undivided north/south bound roadway. There were two lanes in each direction of the east/west bound road with a left turn only lane between the two directions. It was straight, dry, asphalt with a slope east of the intersection of 4% downhill to the west, and a slope west of the intersection of 4% downhill to the east. The intersection itself was level. North of the intersection there was one lane north bound and were two lanes southbound. South of the intersection there was one lane in each direction. The posted speed limit was 72 kph (45 mph). Traffic in all directions was controlled by overhanging control signals, on colors, without pedestrian control. There were also cameras used for red light traffic enforcement. The crash occurred on a weekday afternoon while traffic was heavy under clear skies.

V1, a 1998 Dodge Stratus, four-door with one occupant was making a left turn from the eastbound left turn only lane to the northbound lane. V2, a 2000 Buick LeSabre, four-door with one occupant was westbound in lane one. V1 began turning left without a protected left turn arrow into the path of V2. The front right of V1 struck the front left of V2. V1 rotated counterclockwise after impact and came to rest within two meters of impact facing north. V2 traveled about 10 meters westward and came to rest facing west near the northwest corner. Both vehicles were towed from the location. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Dodge Stratus, was driven by an 18-year old male who received non-incapacitating injuries and was transported to a hospital. The driver reported that he was on his way from his father's home to a shop. He said that when he approached the intersection he was behind other traffic and the car in front of him turned left with a protected left turn arrow, which turned off before V1 began his turn. The driver said he stopped more than 10 seconds before he turned. He said that while he was stopped he saw V2 approaching from the opposite direction. He said V2 had on its right turn signal and he thought it was going to turn right, so he proceeded to turn left. He reported that as he was accelerating he realized that V2 was going straight so he hit his brakes without lockup. The driver said his vehicle was then struck by V2 before he could complete his turn.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded driver related false assumption of other's actions. The driver saw V2 and thought it was going to turn right rather than go straight. This vehicle was also assigned associated factors for driver inexperience, one year driving, and because the driver rarely drove on this roadway.

V2, the Buick LeSabre, was driven by a 68-year old female who received non-incapacitating injuries and was transported to a hospital. The driver reported that she was going straight eastbound at about 72 kph (45 mph) as she approached the intersection during a shopping excursion. She said she had a green light. She denied having her turn signal on. The driver said she did see V1 in the left turn lane before he started to turn, but she did not know if he stopped. She added that he turned into her path and she applied her brakes without lockup in an unsuccessful attempt to avoid impact and that V1 struck her vehicle.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from the opposite direction over the left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded for this vehicle. Coded as an associated factor for this vehicle due to presence was driver physical condition, her use of numerous medications (obtained from attached medical records). The driver also refused to discuss any hearing related or pre-existing health conditions causing the researcher to believe that she possibly had other physical problems.