The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways that were controlled by a signalized traffic control device. The north/south roadway was a two-way physically divided roadway with three lanes in each direction. The eastbound roadway was one-way with one travel lane. These were straight, level, bituminous roadways with a speed limit of 48kmph (30mph). It was the late afternoon hours of a weekday and the roads were dry, and the sky was cloudy with no adverse conditions.

V1, a 1990 Toyota Corolla four door sedan with two occupants, was traveling eastbound in lane one. V2, a 2003 Pontiac Grand Prix four door sedan with one occupant, was traveling northbound in lane three. At the intersection, the front of V2 impacted the right front side of V1. V1 came to a final rest near the point of impact. V2 came to a final rest north of the point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Toyota Corolla, was driven by a 79 year-old female who reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. A 44 year-old female occupant also reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. She advised that she was coming from the doctor's office and going home. She stated that that traffic signal was green and as she started to go through the intersection, she was impacted by V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver related factor, internal distraction. Associated factors coded to the driver of V1 include being upset and worried about a personal health related problem that was revealed during the doctor's visit, conversation with the passenger, inadequate surveillance, and an illegal maneuver for failing to obey the traffic control device.

V2, the Pontiac Grand Prix, was driven by a 20 year-old male who reported no injuries. He advised that he was traveling from home and going to the batting cage and gym. He stated that he was traveling straight in lane three, when all of a sudden V2 attempted to cross the intersection in front of him. He attempted to brake and steer right but could not avoid the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street across path." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to the driver. No associated factors were coded to this driver.