This crash occurred in the late morning of a weekend in the northbound lanes of a divided four-lane highway. The north/south highway consisted of two lanes in each direction divided by a grassy median. The concrete roadway curved to the left, with a downhill grade, and had a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). There was also an on-ramp to the right. The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 1999 Jaguar XJ8 with one occupant, was northbound in lane one. V2 was a 2000 Oldsmobile Alero with two occupants, was merging onto the highway from the on-ramp. V1 began to change lanes into lane two, when the driver noticed another vehicle approaching at a high rate of speed. The driver of V1 crossed back into lane one, where V2 had already merged, but was traveling at a slower rate. The driver of V1 attempted to brake but contacted the left rear of V2. V2 then impacted a concrete barrier on the right side of the roadway and came to final off the roadway on the right side facing southbound. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 97 kmph for V1 and 97 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 38 year-old male, was uninjured in the crash. The driver stated that he looked in his drivers' side mirror before changing lanes and did not see the non-contact vehicle. While the driver was in the process of changing lanes, he looked in his mirror again, and that is when he saw the non-contact vehicle traveling at a very high rate of speed. He steered right and never saw V2 before striking it.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, over the lane line on right side of travel lane. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was a driver related factor, inadequate surveillance, failed to look to side. In addition to the inadequate surveillance an exterior factor was coded as an associated factor as the driver was focused on the non-contact vehicle.

The driver of V2, a 31 year-old female, was transported for treatment of unknown injuries. Her 23-month-old passenger in the left rear passenger seat was uninjured. After several attempts the driver refused to answer questions related to the crash.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle encroachment, from adjacent lane, over left lane line. The Critical Reason for the Critical Precrash Event was not coded to this vehicle. There were no known associated factors coded to this vehicle.