This two-vehicle crash occurred in an intersection where a single northbound roadway intersected with a five-lane east/westbound roadway. The east/westbound roadway was a divided roadway with three lanes traveling east and two lanes traveling west. All of the roadways had a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). The east/westbound allowed curbside parking, which was primarily used during the daytime hours. Signalized traffic devices controlled all directions of the intersection. The asphalt roadways had a dusting of snow, level, straight and it was snowing lightly. The crash occurred on a weekday during the early morning daylight hours. The roadway was free of any defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.

Vehicle one, 2000 Mercury Sable station wagon, was traveling northbound on the single lane roadway through the three-way intersection when it contacted with its front the right side of vehicle two, a 2000 BMW 323I series 4-door sedan, traveling eastbound in lane two through the same intersection. After the initial impact with vehicle two, vehicle one continued traveling several feet and rotating clockwise where it came to final rest facing southeastward. Vehicle two, after the initial impact, rotated counterclockwise and came to final rest facing eastward. Vehicle two damages were severe and it was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1 and Unknown for V2.

The driver of vehicle one, a 31-year old female, traveling alone on her way to work said she felt a little tired this morning because she only slept 6-hours the previous night not her usual 8-hours, she's been feeling fatigued the last few days and said she's going to get some serious rest soon. While approaching the intersection she saw the light turning yellow, but continued thinking she'd get through it without a problem. However, the other vehicle came from nowhere all of a sudden and her vehicle struck it on the right side. She travels on the roadway daily and feels very comfortable traveling on it. She's been a licensed driver for a little over 14-years. She was not sure what the speed limit for the roadways were. However, she guessed it to be about 35-40 mph. She was not injured and continued on to work after the scene was cleared.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V1 is: “this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) the intersection”. The Critical Reason coded to this vehicle is: “inadequate surveillance”. Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle include: inadequate surveillance, looked but did not see, roadway conditions, snowing. Fatigued.

The driver of vehicle two, a 25-year old female, was transported to the hospital directly from the scene. There were several attempts made to contact the driver, but she could not be reached for comment.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event coded to V2 is: “other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. No interview so there were no associated factors.