Case Summary 2007-43-119

This two-vehicle crash occurred at a three-legged suburban intersection. The main corridor runs north/south with no traffic control signals. There is a driveway entrance that intersects on the west leg of the roadway, which is controlled by a stop sign. Southbound approach is straight with a -3.8% downhill grade, and contains two straight lanes and one right turn only lane. A grass median divides north/south traffic, but there is a paved, legal cut through that is 16.0 meters (53 feet) long designated for north traffic to turn left and enter the west driveway. The posted speed limit for both roadways is 72 kph (45 mph). Traffic flow was moderate at the time of crash. Setting was afternoon hours on a weekday. Conditions were daylight and dry with cloudy skies. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

V1 is a 1997 Nissan Pickup truck with two occupants traveling southbound in lane three. V2 is a 1995 GMC Jimmy two door with one occupant traveling eastbound in lane one. V2 was stopped in its travel lane at the stop sign. V2 entered into southbound traffic with the intention of crossing the paved section of median and travel north. V1 applied its brakes, locking them up leaving 24.5 meters (80 feet) of visible tire impressions in the roadway. The front of V1 contacted the left side of V2 (Event 1) in the southbound lanes. V1 traveled 10.8 meters (35 feet) after impact and came to final rest in the center median facing southeast. After impact, V2 crossed over both northbound lanes, departed the road to the left and entered an embankment with a -30% slope on one side and a +30% slope on the other side. V2 contacted the positive side of the embankment with its front-end (Event 2). V2 then contacted the negative side of the embankment with its undercarriage (Event 3). V2 traveled a total of 38.1 meters (125 feet) after impact and came to final rest facing east.

The driver of V1 is a 50 year-old male who suffered minor injures to his arms and hands and was treated on-scene by EMS. He and a co-worker were on there way back to there job site (about an hour away) from picking up supplies from a local warehouse. They drive this roadway once weekly and were familiar with the area. They say they were in the far left lane traveling at 72 kph (45 mph). He reports that a car was traveling the same speed as him in the lane to his right. As he approached the intersection both himself and his passenger made eye contact with the driver of V2, who was stopped on a side road to the right. All of a sudden, V2 “gunned the gas” in an attempt to cross the southbound travel lanes. Driver of V1 locked the brakes up and was unable to steer right due to a car being in that travel lane. The front-end of his vehicle contacted the left side of V2 in the intersection. After impact some of the supplies that were inadequately secured in the bed of the pickup truck shifted forward and came to rest partially on the hood and ground. His vehicle was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “Other vehicle encroachment, from crossing street, turning into opposite direction.” The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was “Not coded to this driver.” This driver suffers from Lupus, but denies the use of any medications to treat it. He did report talking with his co-worker who was sitting next to him, a recognition error. He reports driving this roadway on a monthly basis, possibly an experience factor. This driver also failed to properly secure his load, causing it to shift forward during impact. The cloudy skies were a contributing weather factor for both drivers.

The driver of V2 is a 29 year-old male who was transported from the scene with a serious head injury. He required hospitalization for the treatment of his injury. Neither himself nor his wife were able to be located for an interview, therefore no crash data is known. His vehicle was towed from the scene with non-disabling damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was “This vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection.” The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was “Unknown.” It is probable that the driver of V2 saw V1, but either misjudged its gap distance or speed. Since the driver of V2 wasn't interviewed this factor was coded as “unknown.” The tires of V2 did not contain an adequate amount of tread depth, a vehicle related factor