The crash occurred in the intersection of two roadways. The northbound roadway was one-way with one lane of travel. The east/west roadway was two-way with one lane in each direction. These were straight, level, bituminous roadways with a speed limit of 48kmph (30mph). It was the morning hours of a weekday, and it was dry and clear with no adverse conditions. The intersection was controlled by a traffic signal.

V1, a 2003 Ford E-350 van with four occupants, was traveling northbound in lane one. V2, a 1994 Honda Passport sport utility vehicle with two occupants was traveling eastbound in lane one. V3, a 2004 Toyota Solara two door coupe with one occupant, was traveling westbound in lane one. At the intersection, the front of V1 impacted the right side of V2. V2 rotated counterclockwise and the front of V3 contacted the back of V2. V1 came to a final rest approximately 10 meters east of the point of impact. V2 came to a final rest on the northeast corner. V3 came to a final rest shortly after the point of impact with V2. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Ford E-350, was driven by a 35 year-old male who reported no injuries. The occupants, an 8 year-old female, a 12 year-old female, and a 34 year-old female, all reported minor injuries and were transported to a medical facility.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, crossing over (passing through) intersection." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as an unknown driver error. The driver went through a red light as per the police report. An illegal maneuver, failed to obey TCD, was coded as an associated factor. Other possible associated factors were coded unknown because no interview was obtained.

V2, the Honda Passport, was driven by a 61 year-old male who reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. An unknown male occupant reported minor injuries and was also transported to a medical facility.

The Critical Pre-crash event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. The driver had the right of way. Possible associated factors were coded unknown because no interview was obtained.

V3, the Toyota Solara, was driven by a 56 year-old female who reported minor injuries and was transported to a medical facility. No Critical Pre-crash Event and no Critical Reason were coded to this vehicle because it was not involved in the first harmful event. Possible associated factors were coded unknown because no interview was obtained.