This crash occurred in a 4-way intersection controlled by traffic signals all around. The north/south roadway was a 5-lane undivided roadway with 3 lanes southbound and 2 lanes northbound in the southbound direction. The east/west roadway was a 6-lane undivided roadway with 4 eastbound lanes and 2 westbound lanes in the eastbound direction. Both roadways were straight, level, and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 80 kmph (50 mph). The crash occurred in the late weekday afternoon and the roads were dry and the sky was clear. Traffic flow was congested due to the beginning of rush hour with stop-and-go activity.

V1, a 1997 Lincoln Continental Town car 4-door with one occupant, was traveling southbound in lane one. V2, a 2000 Toyota Camry 4-door with one occupant, was stopped facing eastbound in lane two. V3, a 2003 Toyota Corolla 4-door with one occupant, was stopped facing eastbound in lane four. As V1 approached the intersection, the light changed from green to amber. The driver of V1 wanted to beat the light and accelerated through the intersection. As he entered the intersection, a non-contact vehicle entered the intersection traveling northbound and began a left turn in front of V1. V1 successfully avoided a head-on collision with the non-contact vehicle by steering right. As he steered right he lost control of his vehicle and rotated clockwise approximately 90 degrees into the eastbound lanes near the intersection, where V2 and V3 were waiting at a red light. V1 first struck V2's left side with its left rear corner and then struck V3's right front corner. All vehicles came to final rest at approximately the point of impact. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1, the Lincoln Continental, was driven by a 26-year-old male who reported no injuries. He was traveling south on his way home from work. As he approached the intersection, he saw that the light changed from green to amber. Not wanting to get caught at a red light and seeing that the intersection was clear, the driver accelerated into the intersection. As he entered the intersection, a non-contact vehicle from the north, also intent on beating the light, made a left turn in front of V1. V1 tried to avoid the collision with the non-contact vehicle by steering to the right without braking, and in the process struck V2 and V3.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "This vehicle traveling- over the lane line on the right side of travel lane." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as "incorrect evasive action." Associated factors coded to this driver include smoking, the decision to beat the light, being in a hurry, and the rush hour congestion.

V2, the Toyota Camry, was driven by a 42-year-old male who reported to the officers no injuries, but later complained of back pain related to the accident. The driver was on his way home after working and running some errands. He was waiting at the red light intending on going straight through the intersection. He stated that he wasn't aware of V1 until he heard its brakes avoiding a collision with the non-contact vehicle. When he looked up he was getting hit.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other vehicle encroachment-over the left lane line." There was no Critical Reason coded to this vehicle. The only associated factor coded to this vehicle was rush hour congestion.

V3, the Toyota Corolla, was driven by a 29-year-old male who reported no injuries. The driver stated he was on his way home from work and had just dropped off one of his co-workers. He approached the intersection intending on making a left, but was stopped for the red light. He didn't notice anything happening until he was impacted.

V3 was not involved in the first harmful event. Therefore no Critical Pre-crash Event or Critical Reason could be coded to this vehicle. The only associated factor coded to this vehicle was the rush hour congestion.