This three-vehicle crash occurred in the afternoon of a weekday in the southbound lane of a 2-lane divided highway. The roadway consists of two northbound and two southbound lanes with a grass median dividing the two directions and a posted speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). The bituminous roadway is dry, straight and has an uphill slope of 4%. There were no adverse weather conditions and the traffic level was moderate at the time of the crash.

V1, a 2006 Acura TSX with one occupant, was southbound in lane two intending to go straight. V2, a 2003 Ford Explorer Sport 4x4 with one occupant, was stopped in southbound lane one intending to continue straight. V3, a 2000 Hyundai Elantra with two occupants, was also stopped in southbound lane one ahead of V2 intending to go straight. V1 swerved into lane one and struck the back of V2 causing V2 to spin counterclockwise and roll one-quarter times onto its right side. As V2 was rolling onto its side, the top struck the back of V3 and both vehicles came to rest in lane one. V1 continued off the right side of the roadway where it came to final rest on a grass roadside. Police Reported Travel Speed is 72 kmph for V1 and 72 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a 23-year-old male, is currently unemployed and reports to be in good health. As this driver describes the crash, he had left his home 10-15 minutes ago and was visiting his physiatrist to get a prescription refilled. He said he was driving in the left lane (2) at approximately 40-45 mph when he placed his milkshake into a cup holder and when he looked back at the roadway he saw a car in his lane slowing/stopping. Once this driver realized he was in trouble, he slammed on the brake pedal and steered right only to discover there was a SUV in lane one. He struck the back of V2 and continued off the right side of the road. He was treated on the scene for minor bruising and his car was towed due to disabling damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded other vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded as an internal distraction looking down at his cup holder.

The driver of V2 is a 45-year-old male that works as an estimator for a construction company 40 hours each week that reports to be in good health despite having high blood pressure and receiving CPAP treatment for sleep apnea. As he was traveling south in lane one the traffic ahead of him stopped for a red light that was approximately 300 feet away, so he came to a stop in his lane. After being stopped for 5-10 seconds, he heard tires squealing from behind his truck so he looked in his rearview mirror and saw V1 coming toward him. V1 slammed into the back of his Ford Explorer, lifted it in the air and onto its right side where it came to rest against V3. This driver was transported from the scene for observation but he was not injured in the crash. His SUV was towed from the scene but it could have been driven away.

The Critical Precrash Event for V2 was coded other vehicle in lane in same direction traveling with higher speed. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle.

The driver of V3 is a 19-year-old male that works part-time at a restaurant as a server almost 30 hours each week and reports to be a healthy person without any concerns. He and his girlfriend were returning home this afternoon after picking up his car from a body shop when they were involved in this crash. He said he was following his friend home when they both stopped in their lane for a red light ahead of them. He said he was stopped for 20-30 seconds before he heard tires squealing behind him and when he looked in his rearview mirror he saw V2 (Ford Explorer) roll onto its side and slide into the back of his Hyundai. He was not injured in the crash but his girlfriend was transported to the hospital for an examination.

The Critical Precrash Event for V3 was coded not involved in first harmful event and the Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle.