This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection in an interchange area. The north/south trafficway is straight, level and divided. The southbound approach consists of two through lanes and two left turn lanes. The northbound approach consists of two through lanes, a left turn lane and a right turn lane. The speed limit for this trafficway is 64 kmph (40 mph). This crash occurred during daylight hours with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Chrysler Sebring, was southbound in lane three, the outside turn lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1994 Oldsmobile Delta 88, was northbound in lane three. In the intersection, V1 turned left and the front struck the left side of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 48 kmph for V1 and 48 kmph for V2.

The driver of V1, a seventy-four-year-old female, was on her way home from work. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route weekly. This driver stated that she saw the green traffic signal, did not realize that the turn arrow was red and proceeded into the intersection. She further stated that she did not intend to turn at the intersection until she realized that she was inadvertently in the turn lane.

The driver of V2, a forty-three-year-old female, was on her way home from an orthodontist appointment. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route weekly. This driver stated that she was proceeding through the intersection on a green light and noticed V1 when it was just "a foot away."

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor; inadequate surveillance (e.g. failed to look, looked but did not see). This driver's inattention was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from opposite direction - over left lane line. The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event not coded to this vehicle. This driver's inadequate surveillance was an associated factor in this crash.