This single-vehicle crash occurred on a four lane divided highway. The roadway consisted of two lanes for both the north and southbound directions. The roadway curved left, was uphill and bituminous with a posted speed limit of 72 kmph (45 mph). The crash occurred shortly after noon during daylight hours with weekend traffic flow.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Ford Mustang with only the driver present, was westbound in lane one. As V1 was traveling it began to leave the roadway on the right side were it first impacted a sign with its front. The yellow traffic warning sign then struck the top of the vehicle. After impacting the sign the driver of V1 tried to gain control of the vehicle but was unable to. V1 re-entered the roadway and crossed both lanes of traffic before the front and left side of the vehicle struck the center barrier. The impacts caused the vehicle to rotate counterclockwise. V1 continued to rotate counterclockwise back across both lanes of traffic before coming to rest on the right shoulder area facing northeast. V1 was towed due to damage and the driver was not injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1, a thirty-five-year-old male, was driving from the store on his way home when the crash occurred. The driver stated being rested, drives this route about twice a year and is very comfortable with this vehicle. He stated he had been sick the seven days before the crash and was just getting over the illness. The driver insisted only taking ibuprofen the twenty-four hours before the crash, the researcher however saw multiple bottles of pills in the vehicle at the time of the crash.

A witness stated to the investigating officer that the vehicle was weaving in and out of traffic, tailgating and speeding prior to the crash. This witness called the police before the crash occurred. This individual did not see the crash sequence as it occurred but did inform authorities of the erratic driving behavior of the driver.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason for the critical event for V1 was coded as a driver related factor: poor directional control (e.g., failing to control vehicle with skill ordinarily expected).