The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a two-way, five-lane, undivided roadway. The center lane consisted of a two-way left turn lane. There were two eastbound lanes, with a posted speed of 56 kmph (35 mph). This was a straight, level, and asphalt roadway. Conditions were dusk on a weekday evening with dry roads and clear skies. Traffic flow was normal.

V1, a 1993 Toyota Celica 2-door coupe with one occupant, was traveling eastbound in lane two. V2, a 2004 Ford F-150 pickup with three occupants, was also traveling eastbound in lane two, ahead of V1. A bicyclist crossed the street from south to north, in front of V2. This caused the driver of V2 to come to a sudden stop. The front of V1 made contact with the back of V2. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is 40 kmph for V1 and 40 kmph for V2.

V1, the Toyota Celica, was driven by a 37-year old female, who was transported to the hospital due to injury. She stated that she had just stopped to pick up an order at a nearby restaurant on her way to work. While at the restaurant, the driver's taste changed, and she left without her food. The driver knew of another restaurant along the way, and decided she would call in an order along the way, having it delivered. As the driver followed behind V2, she began looking off to the right, for the telephone number of the restaurant, which was painted on the front of the building. Due to the distraction, she did not immediately see V2 suddenly stop. By the time she did, it was too late.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a driver-related recognition error, external distraction. The driver was looking to her right, for a take-out phone number painted on the front of a restaurant. One associated factor for this driver was a roadway-related traffic flow interruption. Specifically, a bicyclist crossed the street in front of V1 and V2, causing the traffic flow disruption. Emotional-related factors for the driver included employment concerns, as well as other concerns relating to a potential stalker, whom the driver had an argument with just prior to the crash. However, the driver claimed not to be thinking of these concerns immediately before the crash. A vehicle-related factor included a tire deficiency. The driver's left front and left rear tires were deficient in tread depth, while the right rear tire was deficient in air pressure.

V2, the Ford F-150, was driven by a 47-year old male, who was transported to the hospital due to injury. He stated that he and his passengers were on their way to a friend's house from a nearby store. According to the motorist, a cyclist crossed in front of him, forcing him to slam on his brakes. Although the driver was able to avoid the cyclist, he was immediately hit from behind by V1.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other motor vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. One physical-related factor for the driver was a pre-existing health condition. The driver takes Novolin twice daily for diabetes. As with V1, there was the presence of a traffic flow interruption. No additional associated factors were present for this driver.