This rear-end crash occurred on a weekday afternoon involving two vehicles at an intersection without traffic signs. The speed limit for the roadway is 64 kmph (40 mph). The road is a 3-lane straight, uphill, divided (no positive barrier) asphalt roadway for northbound traffic. The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash. It had been recently resurfaced with new asphalt. There were no lanes marking at the time of the crash.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Ford Escort with three occupants, was traveling north in lane three of the northbound lanes, approaching the intersection with an east-west street. Vehicle two (V2), an unidentified Lincoln SUV, (year/model unknown) was traveling north in lane three in front of V1. For an unknown reason, V2 was stopped prior to the intersection. The front of V1 impacted the back of V2. V1 came to rest forward of the point of impact. V2 drove away from the scene without identification. V1 was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 41-year old female drove V1. She said V2 made a wide U-turn, possibly from the outside (lane one) lane of the southbound lanes of travel. She did not see V2 until it was right in front of her. She applied her brakes, but was too close. She was in good health, does not take any medication and was well rested. She drives on this roadway on a daily basis and is familiar with her vehicle. She was heading home after she picked up her children at school a few minutes earlier. She did admit she was singing with the children before she realized a crash was imminent.

The critical pre crash event for V1 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane-other vehicle stopped. The critical reason was coded: internal distraction. This driver was singing with the two passengers in the back seat and did not detect V2 to attempt any evasive maneuvers. She failed to look far enough ahead.

The driver of V2 or the vehicle was never identified.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: other motor vehicle in lane-traveling in same direction with higher speed. A critical reason was not coded to this vehicle.