This single-vehicle crash occurred in the afternoon of a weekend on a 3-lane divided highway. The highway runs east and west with a grass median divider and a posted speed limit of 105 kmph (65 mph). At location of this crash, the roadway is flat and slightly curved to the left. The weather conditions were clear, dry and daylight.

V1, a 1998 Plymouth Breeze with one occupant, was westbound in lane two when a noncontact vehicle (NCV) from lane three suddenly entered lane two. V1's driver steered right in an avoidance effort but could not stay in control of his vehicle and continued to drive off the right side of the roadway. V1 departed the right side of the highway where it climbed an embankment, struck a 42 cm in diameter tree (event #1) with its right side, another 12 cm in diameter tree (event #2) with its front, and then rolled 2-quarter times (event #3) as it descended down the embankment and came to final rest on its left side. V1 was towed from the scene due to disabling damage but the driver was not injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is 80 kmph for V1.

The driver of V1 is a 29-year-old-male that moved to this area five years ago from Guatemala. He works construction (concrete labor) Monday through Friday an average of 40 hours each week but only worked 30 hours the past week because of the inclement weather. He reports to be in good health, well rested, and there were no concerns in his life that were distressing him.

For this trip today, this driver was returning home after visiting a friend. He was traveling west in lane 2 of this 3-lane divided highway when an alleged vehicle from lane 3 suddenly swerved into his lane causing this driver to steer right and lose control of his car. This driver steered his car off the right side of the roadway where it climbed up an embankment, struck a tree, and rolled onto its left side as it descended from the embankment.

The Critical Precrash Event was coded this vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the right side. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded incorrect evasive action. Associated factors include insufficient braking because braking alone would have been enough to avoid a crash, poor directional control (failure to control vehicle with skill ordinarily expected of a good driver), and inexperienced driver because the driver never took a driving training lesson and does not have operator license.