This two-vehicle crash occurred at an intersection with traffic lights. It is a five lane (one-way traffic) undivided roadway from east to west. This is the service road of a major highway. The road is a five-lane divided (no positive barrier) concrete roadway from north to south. The speed limit for the east-west roadway is 72 kph (45 mph). The speed limit for the north to south is 64 kph (40 mph) The road surface was dry and there were no detrimental atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash. It was evening hours on a weekend and there was little to medium traffic on the roadways. The intersection was well lit.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Nissan Maxima with two occupants, was traveling north in the third lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Mercedes Benz C230 with one occupant, was traveling west in the second lane of traffic approaching the intersection of both roadways. At the intersection of both roadways, the front of V2 impacted the right side of V1. V1 rotated clockwise, departed the roadway and entered the center median of the northbound lanes. The right front wheel impacted the curb of the median as the vehicle continued to rotate clockwise while moving north on the median. The left side of the vehicle impacted a sign support, causing the pole to break off at the base. V1 came to rest in a pedestrian walkway, which ran laterally through the median. V2 rotated clockwise after the impact and moved further west. It came to rest south of the north median, facing east. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

A 31-year old male drove V1, the 2002 Nissan Maxima. He was coming from an amateur soccer game. The driver is in good health, does not take medication and was well rested. He drives the roadway on a daily basis. He was comfortable with the vehicle he had purchased just prior to the crash. The police report indicated the presence of alcohol.

The critical pre crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path . The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. This driver failed to look to his left and detect V2 and attempted no evasive maneuvers.

A 33-year old female drove V2. This driver was not interviewed.

The critical pre crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection. The critical reason was coded to V2 as a driver related factor: type of driver error unknown.