The crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a primary arterial road that ran north/south. The arterial was intersected from the west by an access road that had a stop sign as traffic control. The arterial was a seven-lane road that had three southbound lanes and four northbound lanes with no physical divider. The road was curved to the left with a radius of 536 meters that was super-elevated to 5 percent. The arterial was fairly level and had a speed limit of 64 mph (40 mph). The access road was a two-way, two-lane road with no painted lane lines or physical dividers. The access road had a negative grade at the pre-crash location of 3 percent and 1.3 percent at the stop line where it intersected the arterial. The access road had a speed limit of 48 kmph (30 mph). Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight and dry in the early afternoon on a weekday.

V1 was a 1999 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan that began a left (north) turn from the access road onto the arterial when it was struck on the left rear side by the front of V2, a 1993 Saturn SW2 station wagon that was traveling south in lane 2 of the arterial. V2 traveled a few more meters south after impact and came to rest facing south in its original travel lane. It was towed from the scene. V1 was driven to an adjacent private lot by its driver and subsequently driven away. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a twenty-nine year old belted female who was on her way to a parent teacher conference at her child's' school (and she was running late). She was not injured in the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was this vehicle turning left at an intersection. The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was coded as inadequate surveillance, looked but did not see. The driver was on a medication to treat depression. The driver was also coded as being in a hurry due to running late for the above-mentioned appointment. It was also the driver's first time on the access road, which she had taken intending to meet someone for lunch but realizing she did not have time to stop continued on.

V2 was driven by a thirty-one year old belted female whose airbags deployed and was listed as having possible injuries by police. She was transported to a local hospital from the scene by EMS. She was also eight months pregnant at the time of the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment from crossing-street turning into opposite direction. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. As the driver refused an interview, no other associated factors were coded to this driver.