This single-vehicle crash occurred in the middle of the block on the eastbound lane of a two-way curved roadway. There was one eastbound and one westbound physically divided roadway; a 1.2 meter wide raised concrete median divided the lanes. There was no signalized traffic control device at this middle of the road location. The roads surface was bituminous, curved to the left, and wet: it had been raining on and off throughout the night and early morning. The posted speed limit was 40 kmph (25 mph). The crash occurred on a weekend during the early morning daylight hours with cloudy/overcastted atmospheric conditions. The roadway was free of any defects and the traffic flow was normal for this roadway.

Vehicle one, a 1999 Nissan Maxima 4-door sedan, was traveling westbound negotiating a rightward curve on the two-way eastbound/westbound roadway when the driver lost control, veered left and crossed over the slightly raised cement median and entered the eastbound travel lane V1 continued traveling and contacted with its front the 20' concrete wall located a few inches beyond the eastbound lane. After the initial impact, V1 continued traveling while scraping against the wall for several feet before it came to final rest continuing to face westward in the opposing eastbound traffic lane. The damages to V1 were disabling and it was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Unknown for V1.

The driver of V1, a 40-year old female, said she was traveling westbound negotiating around the curve when she lost control of her vehicle and entered the other lane (the eastbound lane) and hit the wall. She was traveling westbound on her way to her mother's house. Her travel speed was approximately 56 kmph (35 mph), 10 mph above the posted speed limit. She didn't think she was going very fast, however the road was very slippery, she said. She continued explaining how she slammed on her brakes and steered right, but the vehicle kept going in the wrong direction, left. She was issued a citation for: driving a motor vehicle with a suspended driver's license. She was transported to the hospital with a broken right foot and complaints of head and neck pains.

Arriving on the scene later were the driver's husband and son. They were notified of the crash and appeared on-scene. Both substantiated the driver's work, sleep, and driving habits. I asked them if they were aware of the vehicle's tires conditions, bald and low air, they both answered no and said they were surprised. The father, in turn, scolded the son who shares the vehicle with his stepmother and should have been up on the tires condition. They purchased the vehicle a little over 1-year ago

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 is: "this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side". The Critical Reason for the Critical Event coded to this vehicle is: "a decision error, driving too fast for curve/turn." Associated factors coded to the driver of this vehicle include; tires/wheels defect/failed, bald, very little thread count, tires deflated - very low air on three out of four of tires, one tire blew out as a result of the impact with median and wall, vehicle related factor, traveling too fast for wet slippery road conditions, 10 mph over the posted speed limit.