This crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a seven-lane roadway divided by a concrete median. The crash occurred immediately after a four-way intersection. There were three southbound lanes and four northbound lanes at the point of impact. The roadway was straight, level, bituminous, and had a posted speed limit of 64 kmph (40 mph). Traffic flow was moderate and conditions were clear.

V1 was a 2006 Chrysler Town and Country minivan driven by a 70 year-old male. V2 was a 1996 Chevrolet Lumina 4-door sedan driven by a 72 year-old female. V1 had been in two separate crashes just prior to this one. The beginning of this crash sequence started just after V1 had impacted another vehicle in lane one traveling northbound. V1 continued traveling northbound and crossed over lanes two and three northbound. It then crossed over the concrete median and into lane three southbound. V2 had just passed through an intersection in lane three as V1 crossed over the median. V2 changed lanes into lane two where it was sideswiped by V1. V1 and V2 came to final rest near the intersection. Police Reported Travel Speed is 64 kmph for V1 and 64 kmph for V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling over the lane line on left side of travel lane." The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was "driver related factor, unknown critical non-performance." The driver reported that when he first started the vehicle that morning it seemed to be acting strange. He said that the steering didn't feel right and one of the warning lights lit up on the dash. He found that that light meant that there was a problem between the engine and the transmission. He stated that he did not remember any of the collisions; however, he had a few recollections of what happened in between them. He remembered the vehicle pulling to the right and attempting to steer to the left. It is not clear if this was from crash one or two. He remembered seeing a car dealership on his right that he wanted to turn into but never made it there (this would have occurred just prior to the second crash). He stated he has no recollection of striking V2. The driver suffers from diabetes and the medics on scene checked his blood sugar immediately after the crash. His levels were found to be normal. The driver also takes a medication to prevent seizures. He claimed that he has not suffered from a known seizure in over twenty years. The police report stated that the driver was very confused on scene with an altered level of consciousness.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction - over left lane line." The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle. There were no other factors coded to this vehicle.