This two-vehicle crash occurred in a four-legged, traffic signal-controlled intersection. Both trafficways are straight, level and divided by a curbed median. The approach lanes consist of two through lanes, two left turn lanes and a right turn lane. All roadways were wet at the time of the crash. The speed limit for the east/west roadway is 89 kmph (55 mph). The speed limit for the north/south roadway is 56 kmph (35 mph). It was dark with streetlights on at the time of the crash with no adverse atmospheric conditions.

Vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Volvo S60, was eastbound in lane three. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Pontiac Grand Am, was southbound in lane two. In the intersection, the front of V1 struck the right side of V2. The vehicles rotated and the left side of V1 struck the right side of V2. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1, a thirty-seven-year-old female, was traveling with her six-year-old twin daughters. They had just left their home and were singing together on their way to the children's school where the driver worked. This driver was healthy, well rested and comfortable with her vehicle and passengers. She has anxiety disorder and takes Lexapro. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she was looking straight ahead and did not see V2 prior to the crash.

The driver of V2, a thirty-nine-year-old female, was on her way to work from her home. She was healthy, well rested and familiar with her vehicle. She travels this route daily. This driver stated that she was "running a little late." She further stated that she was thinking about work as she was driving.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, across path." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V2 was "not coded to this vehicle." This driver's inadequate surveillance was an associated factor in this crash.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded as "this vehicle traveling; crossing over (passing through) intersection." The critical reason for the critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded as "driver related factor; inattention (i.e., daydreaming)." This driver's inadequate surveillance was an associated factor in this crash.