The single vehicle, weekday, early morning crash occurred off the left side of a straight, level, bituminous, 2-way, 2-lane roadway. At the time of the crash, eastbound traffic was moderate, it was dark with snow and blowing snow and the roadway was icy. The posted speed limit was 80kmph (50mph).

V1, a 2003 Ford F-150 pickup truck solely occupied by the 45-year-old male driver, was eastbound in lane 1 of the roadway described above. V1 went into a counterclockwise yaw and slid off the left (north) side of the roadway with its right side leading and struck a tree with its right front side. V1 then rotated counterclockwise and struck another tree with it's back. V1 continued to rotate counterclockwise and come to rest facing north-northeast just off the westbound shoulder. The driver of V1 was injured and transported. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver stated that he had risen for work at his usual time and left for work on time and was taking the same route that he did everyday. He had checked the news to see what the weather and road conditions were and was traveling at his usual speed. He was going eastbound along with the traffic flow when he hit an icy patch and the vehicle went into a counterclockwise yaw. He was driving with his right hand and smoking with his left. He said he never had a chance to take any avoidance actions but just held on as he hit the trees and spun around.

The Critical Pre-crash Event was "This vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side". The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash event was the driver's decision error of driving too fast for conditions. Some contributing factors for V1 include the roadway's slick surface due to icy conditions, control loss due to snow/blowing snow and the driver's non-driving activity of smoking and driving with one hand at the time of the control loss distracting him and perhaps inhibiting avoidance attempts. Another factor would be that the driver did not realize that caution was required. It should be noted that V1 was equipped with 4-wheel drive but it was not in use at the time of the crash.