This crash occurred in the westbound lane of a two-lane, rural roadway. There was one westbound lane and one eastbound lane. This roadway had an S-bend that first curved to the left and then back to the right. As the roadway curves to the right there was an uphill grade, while exiting the curve there is a downhill grade. The roadway was bituminous and had a posted speed limit of 56 kmph (35 mph). It was dawn on a weekend and conditions were clear.

V1, a 2006 Chevrolet Cobalt, driven by a 17 year-old female. She was commuting to work on a drivers license that allowed only occupational trips. V1 was traveling westbound and had just negotiated the left curve and began entering the right curve when the tires began to lose their grip. As the vehicle crested the hill it crossed the left lane line, continued through the turn and crossed back into its original lane. The vehicle then crossed back over into lane two and off of the roadway where it struck a tree stump. The ground in this area was covered in approximately one half of a foot of snow. The vehicle then began to roll longitudinally to the left. It then went down a small hill striking several trees and landing on its roof in a shallow creek bed. Police Reported Travel Speed is 129 kmph for V1.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was "this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side." The Critical reason for the Critical Precrash Event was "driver related factor, too fast for curve turn." According to the scene re-constructionist from the police department that responded to this crash, he estimated the vehicles speed to be near 129 kmph (80 mph). The driver admitted driving too fast to this researcher, however she claimed to be traveling approximately 80 kmph (50 mph). The driver was on her way to work, which she was supposed to be there in 2 minutes. She was still several miles from her place of employment. The driver has also been driving for a short amount of time, and stated that she overcompensated in her steering, both to the left and to the right.