The crash occurred on a level, bituminous, two lane undivided roadway with a posted speed limit of 72 KMPH (45 mph). The roadway curved to the right with a radius of curvature of 625 meters and a superelevation of 2.1 percent. The weather was cloudy, the roadway dry and it was daylight at the time of this weekday afternoon crash. Traffic flow was congested, with stop and go activity.

V1, a 2004 Honda CR-V, was traveling north on the roadway negotiating the curve to the right. V2, a 2004 Mack CX tractor pulling a semi-trailer loaded with empty non-flammable gas tanks, was traveling behind V1 on the same roadway. V1 stopped in traffic and was struck in the rear by the front of V2. V1 was pushed forward and came to rest in its lane facing north. V2 came to rest facing north. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Police did not consider either alcohol or illegal drugs to be involved and ordered no tests. Police Reported Travel Speed is 0 kmph for V1 and 0 kmph for V2.

V1, the Honda CR-V, was driven by a belted 53-year-old male who was transported, treated and released for a complaint of pain. The driver stated that he was on his way to pick up his wife for a doctor's appointment. He stated that traffic was backed up from the traffic light ahead and he was stopped. He felt a bang and his head went forward then back. He advised that he had high blood pressure, diabetes and had a heart attack in 1998 and took medications for these conditions. He drove the road daily.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was "other vehicle in lane, traveling in same direction with higher speed." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. Associated factors coded to this driver were the use of prescription medications for his medical conditions and the rush hour traffic.

V2, the Mack tractor-trailer, was driven by a belted 36-year-old male who reported no injuries. The driver stated that he had delivered his last load, was on his way home and drove the road weekly. He advised that the car in front of him stopped short, he attempted to brake, but struck it in the rear. He stated that there was heavy traffic with a long line of cars. He was traveling approximately 21-30 mph and was 15 feet behind the vehicle prior to the crash. He was in good health, took no medications, wore contacts for a myopic (near-sighted) condition and had sunglasses on at the time.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "other vehicle in lane, stopped." The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was a coded as driver inattention. This was chosen because there was a long line of cars in front of V1 that would have been visible to the truck driver at his higher vantage point. Also, the driver of V1 stated that he had been stopped for some time before being struck. An associated factor coded to this driver was the rush hour traffic.