The crash occurred on a north/south road that was intersected by an east/west secondary arterial. The south leg of the intersection had three lanes. Lane one was a straight/right turn lane, lane two was a left turn only lane and lane three was southbound traffic. The northbound approach to the intersection was straight with a negative grade of 3.2%. The north leg of the intersection also had three lanes. Lane one was a straight/right turn lane, lane two was a left turn only lane and lane three was northbound traffic. The southbound approach to the intersection was straight and relatively level. The intersection was controlled by traffic signals, on-colors without a pedestrian signal. Conditions at the time of the crash were daylight and dry at late morning on a weekday with posted speed limits for both vehicles at 64kph/40mph.

V1 was a 1998 Dodge Durango traveling north in lane two of the south leg of the intersection, then attempting to turn left through the intersection when it's front right corner contacted the front of V2, a 2005 Honda Civic that was traveling south through the intersection from lane one of the north leg. V2 had skidded about four meters prior to impact. V1 then rotated slightly counter-clockwise and came to rest facing southwest about ten meters west of impact. V2 rotated about 30 degrees clockwise and came to rest facing south within three meters of impact. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a nineteen-year-old belted female who was listed on the police report as sustaining non-incapacitating injuries as was her restrained twin sister in the right front seat. They were both transported to an area hospital for treatment. Both front airbags did deploy in this crash.

The critical precrash event for V1 was this vehicle traveling, turning left at an intersection. The critical reason was inadequate surveillance, looked but did not see. The driver was also coded as inattentive thought focus unknown. No other contributing factors were coded to this vehicle.

V2 was driven by a belted forty-year-old male who was listed on the police report as sustaining non-incapacitating injuries as was his restrained seventy-one-year-old mother who was in the right front position. They were on their way to go antique shopping at the time of the crash. Both were transported to a local hospital for treatment. Both front airbags deployed in V2.

The critical precrash event for V2 was other vehicle encroachment over the lane line on the left side of the travel lane. The critical reason was not coded to this vehicle. The driver was taking a medication for an unspecified condition. The driver was coded as falsely assuming that the other vehicle would yield the right of way. No other contributing factors were coded to this vehicle.