This two-vehicle crash occurred during the mid-morning daylight hours .The location was a T-intersection in an urban area with traffic control signals and crosswalks. The roadway for southbound traffic was a bituminous, negative grade, three lane, undivided, two-way with a right turn only lane. The roadway for eastbound traffic was a bituminous, negative grade, three lane, two-way with right and left turn only lanes. The weather was clear and dry. It was morning during daylight and there were no visibility problems. The posted speed limit for both roadways was 56 kmph (35 mph).

Vehicle one (V1), a 1986 Mercury Capri GS 3 door hatchback, was driven by a seventy five (75) year old female. V1 was traveling southbound in lane two approaching the intersection to go straight. The driver stated the light was green, but she turned and looked out the left side window and when she looked back the other vehicle was right in front of her vehicle in the intersection. The driver applied the brakes just prior to impact.. V1 impacted with the left side of vehicle two (V2) with it's front. V1 came to rest near the area of impact and was towed due to damage. Vehicle two (V2), a 2006 Ford Freestar SE minivan, was driven by a forty four (44) year old male. V2 was stopped eastbound at the intersection. When the light turned green the driver pulled forward into the intersection to negotiate a left turn. V2 was impacted on the left side by V1's front. On impact V2 continued forward a short distance and came to a stop. V2 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: other vehicle encroachment; from crossing street, turning into opposite direction.. The critical reason for the critical event was not coded to this vehicle.

The critical pre-crash event for V2 was coded: this vehicle traveling, turning left at intersection. The critical reason for the critical event was coded to V2 as a driver related factor: false assumption of other's actions.