This crash occurred on the entrance ramp to the southbound lanes of the interstate. It was early in the morning at the beginning of the week. The weather was cold and clear. It was dark at the time of the crash. The ramp had a positive slope of 4 percent. The radius of the curve was 375m with a super elevation of 2 percent. The roadway was wet concrete with spots of black ice. The speed was posted at 89kmph (55 mph).

Vehicle #1, a 1996 Dodge Ram cargo van loaded with some 2297lb of cargo, was on the entrance ramp. As the driver accelerated up the ramp onto the interstate, the vehicle started to rotate clockwise and then slid off the roadway to contact the retainer wall off the right side of the roadway. The vehicle then started to climb the wall and the vehicle fell over onto its left side and slid about 29m (113ft) to final rest. The driver was not injured in the crash, just shaken up. The vehicle was towed from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

A 24-year-old male drove V1. He reported being in good health and taking no medications. He stated he does not wear corrective lenses. He reported that he was a contracted delivery driver and was on his way to make his daily deliveries. He stated he was feeling a little fatigued at the start of his day due to having a newborn in the household. He stated he drives this route weekly. He stated as he accelerated up the ramp and started to merge onto the interstate he could feel his vehicle starting to slide. He stated he tapped the brakes and then the vehicle started to rotate. He said he saw the wall and did not want to hit it so he kept tapping the brakes as the vehicle was rotating. He stated then the vehicle fell over onto its left side and slid to final rest. He stated he could not get his passenger door to open so he sat and waited for someone to come and help him. He stated he did not have any injuries form the crash but was shaken and afraid to get back in the drivers seat. He stated he has been doing this type of delivery work for four years and has never had anything like this happen before.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event was coded this vehicle control loss due to poor road conditions (puddle, pot hole, ice, etc.). The ramp had black ice conditions. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded "Slick roads," an environmental factor, because there was no way for the driver to see the ice as he came up the ramp. Associated factors coded to this driver include fatigue, traveling too fast for conditions, work stress, and the road conditions (black ice).