Case Summary 2007-43-202

This single vehicle crash occurred along a westbound rural, two-lane divided highway. The roadway is bituminous and level with a slight left curve profile. A grass median with double metal guardrails divides east/west traffic. The posted speed limit is 104 kph (65 mph). Crash occurred on a weekday during the early afternoon hours. This was the eve to a major holiday. Conditions were daylight and dry with overcast skies. Traffic flow was light to moderate. Police Reported Travel Speed is 105 kmph for V1.

V1 is a 1994 Ford Mustang, coupe, with two occupants traveling westbound in lane two. V1 driver passed out while driving and drove off the road to the left. The passenger grabbed the steering wheel to the right and successfully brought V1 back onto the roadway. The driver became conscious and struggled with the passenger for control of the steering wheel. V1 departed its lane to the right, then departed the roadway to right and started to rotate slightly clockwise, leaving 33 meters (108 feet) of yaw impressions in the negatively sloped grass roadside, before striking a small diameter tree with its left side (Event 1). V1 then contacted several large trees (Event 2,3). V1 came to final rest facing northwest at near the impact point.

The driver of V1 is a 42 year-old male who was transported to the hospital with a traumatic leg injury. He and his buddy/coworker had the day off due to the upcoming holiday. His buddy had been helping him renovate a room in his house for the last few days. This involved moving heavy furniture, painting, etc. He had been looking for a 7x12 foot piece of carpet for a cheap price. He found a piece in a neighboring city and was on his way to pick it up. He planned to roll it, stick it through the trunk and into the passenger compartment. As he was traveling around the slight left curve at 120 kph (75 mph) in the left lane, the driver suffered a blackout, or fell asleep. The passenger noticed the car steering left toward the guardrail, then noticed the driver was not awake. He grabbed the wheel and steered right, at which time the driver woke up. The driver was disoriented and started to fight his passenger for control of the steering wheel. The passenger was larger and stronger so won the fight for the wheel. The car then veered off the road to the right, heading for the tree line. The driver was still disoriented but believes he hit his brakes prior to impact. The passenger became scared of striking the trees, screamed, unbuckled himself and attempted to jump in the back seat for protection from impact. He was in between the front and back during impact. V1 was towed from the scene with disabling front-end damage.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was “This vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the left side.” The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was “Sleeping, that is, actually asleep,”- a driver related error. According to family members, this driver has no history of blackouts or any other remarkable medical conditions. It's very likely he fell asleep due to the slight roadway departure angle. The driver did get 7 hours of sleep the night before the crash, but was also participating in “strenuous recreational activities,” (moving furniture, painting, renovating house). He only drives this roadway monthly, possibly an experience factor. All four tires were underinflated, a tire/wheel deficiency factor. The cloudy, overcast skies were the only weather related factor.