This crash occurred at an intersection with two one-way roadways. The Southbound roadway had 4-lanes of travel. The Eastbound roadway also had 4-lanes of travel. Both roadways were dry level concrete. The intersection was angled roadways. The intersection was controlled with electronic traffic signals. The speed was posted at 56 kmph (35 mph). It was just before dawn in the early morning at the beginning of the week. The weather was clear.

As vehicle 1, a 1984 Buick Lesabre traveled east in lane four the driver entered the intersection and was contacted on the left side of the vehicle-by-vehicle 2, a 2002 Chevrolet Cavalier. Vehicle 1 then rotated onto its right side and slid 6 meters to contact the south curb and fall back onto all four tires for final rest. Vehicle 2 stayed at the point of impact for final rest. The driver of V1 was transported to the local trauma unit. The driver of V2 was not injured in the crash. Both vehicles were towed from the scene of the crash. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

V1 was driven by a 25 year-old male that stated he is in good health and is taking no medications at this time. He also stated that he does not wear corrective lenses at this time. He stated he was on his way to work. He was traveling at 56 kmph (35 mph) in lane four. He also stated he felt he had the green light at the intersection. As he entered the intersection a southbound vehicle hit his vehicle just in front of the drivers door causing his vehicle to rollover on the right side. The Driver felt his vehicle slid some 60 feet to the south curb. As his vehicle contacted the curb it rotated back to its tires. He stated the other driver ran over to his vehicle stating he was sorry and was running a little late to his first day of college and a work trade program. I let him know I was OK and told him he should go stay with his vehicle.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 was coded “this vehicle traveling crossing over (passing through) intersection”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was coded driver related error “inadequate surveillance (e.g., failed to look, looked but did not see)”. The associated factors to this driver were the obstruction of oncoming traffic caused by the building to the drivers left side and the driver being fatigued due to working two jobs.

V2 was driven by an 18 year-old male that stated he is in good health and is not taking any medications at this time. He also stated he does not wear corrective lenses. He was on a program were they trade work time for class time. He was late for his first day of work. He exited the northbound interstate and traveled north in lane one and at the intersection he turned left. He stated he traveled west to the next intersection and turned left to travel south, he changed lanes from lane four to lane one. The traffic light was green as he traveled towards it. As he entered the intersection a vehicle crossed his path and he contacted the left side of the vehicle rolling it over on its right side. And it slid across the roadway to final rest.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was coded “other vehicle encroachment from crossing street, across path”. The Critical Reason for the Critical Event was not coded to this vehicle. The associated factor to this driver was the being his first day of college and the fact that he was running late for a trade work job for school. Also the fact that he is an inexperienced driver stating he had only been driving for one month in this vehicle. This driver also was distracted form the next intersection as he changed lanes traveling toward the point of impact.