The crash occurred in the northbound lane of a four-lane roadway divided by a grass median. The northbound section of the roadway has a positive barrier median where as the southbound side is a grass median. There were designated left turn signals for both directions. There are five northbound lanes and four southbound lanes that are straight, bituminous with a slight uphill elevation. The posted speed limit is 89kmph (55mph). It was the mid part of the evening after rush hour. Traffic flow was minor. The roadway is well lighted with several light posts. Light is also provided by the gas station lights on both sides of roadway.

V1, a 2001 Buick Regal 4-door sedan was driven by a 43-year old male who was traveling along. V1 was in lane 4 of the roadway in the left turn only lane that is controlled by a traffic light. V2 was planning to stop at a gas station that was at that intersection. V2 was traveling in the northbound roadway in lane 2 going at a constant velocity. As V2 neared the intersection, V1 turned left and entered the intersection. V2 then struck V1 on its right side. V1 spun about 135 degrees clockwise and came to a rest partially on a median. V2 turned 180 degrees clockwise and came to a rest in the middle of lane 1 and 2. The driver stated that he did not want to give an interview because he has been in several accidents before and has never been contacted like this before. His attorney has also denied the interview. The driver did state that V2 was speeding and that's why he was struck in the intersection. He also stated that the particular part of the roadway was dark and he could not see well. The driver was transported due to injuries. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V1 is “this vehicle traveling, turning left at the intersection”. The Critical Reason was “unknown reason for critical event”. The light was red when he made his left turn.

V2, the 2003 Saturn 4-door SUV was driven by a 59 year old male who was traveling alone. Driver was coming back from a funeral in Virginia with his two daughters and sister driving in another car behind him. He was traveling in lane 2 at a rate of speed of 89kmph (55mph). He stated that as he entered the intersection he suddenly saw V1. He said he slammed on the brakes but it was already to late. He said it happened so fast that he doesn't know how his vehicle came to face in the other direction. He also stated that he was unsure where V1 came from. The driver was not injured from the crash.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 is “other vehicle encroachment from opposite direction over left lane line”. The Critical Reason was not coded to this vehicle.