This crash occurred in the early evening of a weekday on a high-speed east/west roadway. The roadway consisted of two lanes in each direction divided by a grassy median. The bituminous roadway was dry, straight and level with a posted speed of 113 kmph (70 mph). The traffic flow was normal and there were no adverse atmospheric conditions at the time of the crash.

V1, a 2003 Subaru Outback with one occupant was westbound in lane one behind a large semi-truck. V1 changed lanes in an attempt to pass the slower moving semi. The driver of V1 became uncomfortable with space between him and the truck and steered left, partially departing the roadway. The driver than steered hard right to re-enter the roadway and V1 to began to rotate clockwise. V1 than rolled left nine quarter turns before coming to final rest on its left side in the middle of the roadway. V1 was towed due to damage. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver of V1, a 30-year-old male, was transported for treatment of minor injuries. He stated that he was tired after a long day of traveling and checking parts at a model shop. He claimed he was attempting to pass a semi-truck when he may have contacted the left rear tire of the trailer (no evidence) but could not be sure. He pulled the steering wheel to the left when he realized how close he was to the semi, which caused him to travel off the roadway to the left. He then counter-steered right, which caused his vehicle to rotate clockwise. The driver stated he could feel his vehicle stating to roll.

The Critical Precrash Event for V1 was coded this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the roadway, left side. The Critical Reason was coded as a driver related factor, overcompensation. Associated factors include driver fatigue, work related stress, and inexperience (driver rarely drives this vehicle).

A witness on-scene in a vehicle traveling behind V1 saw it attempt to pass the semi and lose control. The witness stopped and offered assistance to the driver of V1.