This three-vehicle collision occurred an hour or so before mid-night on a dark five lane, dry, level, divided concrete highway with an HOV lane. The highway is curved to the left as it approaches an interchange area. The highway is designated 104 kmph (65 mph). A concrete center divider borders the left side of the highway. An asphalt curb and a concrete sound wall borders the right side. The on ramp starts as a two-lane road then merges to one lane. The on ramp is made of asphalt and is curved to the right. There is an asphalt curb on the left side near the merge area. The on ramp has an unknown uphill grade. The on ramp has an advisory speed limit of 40 kmph (25 mph)

Vehicle one (V1) is a 2000 Audi S4 4-door sedan, driven by a twenty one (21) year old male who was traveling north in the number two lane of the on ramp. Vehicle two (V2) is a 2006 Toyota RAV4 4-door compact sport utility, driven by a forty nine (49) year old male with one passenger> V2 was traveling north in the number four lane of the highway. Vehicle three (V3) is a 2001 Pontiac Aztec 4-door compact sport utility, driven by a twenty four (24) year old female who was traveling north in the number three lane of the highway behind V2. As V1 traveled up the on ramp the driver illegally passed a slower moving non-contact vehicle on the left at a high rate of speed. V1 then departed the roadway to the left contacting an asphalt curb. V1 lost control and rotated clockwise returning to the roadway. The driver steered to the left but departed the right side of the roadway. He was unable to avoid impacting the concrete sound wall adjacent to the right shoulder with the front of V1. V1 then bounced of the wall and headed in a northwesterly direction across four lanes of travel. Both V2 and V3 moved to the far left lane number five HOV lane to avoid V1. V2's right rear plane was impacted by V1's right rear plane. V1's front plane then contacted V3's right front plane. V1 came to rest facing southwest in the number five lane. V2 came to rest facing north in the number five lane. V3 came to rest facing north in the number five lane. V2 was driven to the right shoulder. V1 was towed with major damage. V2 was driven to the right shoulder but was later towed. V3 was driven from the scene. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The critical pre-crash event for V1 was coded: this vehicle traveling, off the edge of the road on the right side. The critical reason was assigned to V1 and was coded as a driver related factor: too fast for curve/turn. Associated factors were, overcompensation, poor directional control, speeding and aggressive driving behavior. The driver lost control on the ramp as he tried to drive around a non-contact vehicle.

V2 and V3 were not involved in first harmful event. The critical reason was not coded to either vehicle. The driver of V2 has diabetes and hypertension. The morning of the crash he took triglyceride, atenolol and metformin. The driver of V3 takes Cipro in the morning and her birth control (Depoperera).