The crash occurred in lane 2 of 2 westbound lanes of a straight, bituminous, 4-lane interstate with a median but without a positive barrier. At the time of the weekday, morning crash, it was clear, daylight with no adverse weather conditions, the roadway was dry and the rush hour traffic was heavy. The road had an uphill grade of >2% and the posted speed limit was 113 kmph (70mph).

V1, a 1998 Honda Accord occupied solely by the 54 year old driver, was traveling westbound in lane 2 of the roadway described above behind a full sized non-contact step van which was also traveling westbound. V2, a 2000 Honda CRV occupied solely by the 27-year-old male driver, was stopped in lane 2 of the same roadway ahead of the NC vehicle. V3, a 1995 Oldsmobile Silhouette minivan occupied by the 84-year-old male driver and a 57 year-old female passenger, was in lane 2 of the same roadway, stopped, ahead of V2. V4, a 1994 Jaguar 4 door, was also in lane 2 stopped in front of V3. The non-contact vehicle approached the stopped traffic ahead in lane 2 and abruptly swerved left onto the shoulder to avoid contacting V2. V1, traveling at a constant speed near the speed limit, suddenly saw the stopped traffic ahead after the NC vehicle swerved onto the inside shoulder. V1, front, contacted V2, rear. V2, front, then contacted V3, rear. V3, front, then contacted the rear of V4. V1 came to rest facing west in lane 2, V2 came to rest off the road to the left in the median facing southwest, V3 came to rest on the right shoulder facing west and V4 came to rest on the inside shoulder facing west. V1 was towed due to damage. No one was injured. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1 and Not reported for V2.

The driver of V1 stated that he was on his way to work and was traveling 70-80 mph about 3 car lengths behind the NC vehicle it suddenly veered to the left, without braking, and he saw V2 stopped ahead of him. He attempted to brake but could not avoid contacting the back of V2. He was not in a hurry and was familiar with the road.

The Critical Pre-Crash Event for V1 was "other motor vehicle in lane, other vehicle stopped". The Critical Reason for the critical pre-crash event was the driver related factor " other recognition error (i.e., focused on an e3xtraneous vehicle). Some contributing factors on the part of v1 include the rush hour traffic congestion, the driver's excessive speed for the traffic conditions, the impending problem masked by the traffic flow pattern the driver's sightline restricted by the NC vehicle.

The driver of V2 stated that he had come to a stop in lane 2 along with the other traffic in front of him when he noticed the NC vehicle approaching at a high rate of speed from the rear he watched it swerve around him on his left and he was watching it pass him on his left when he was impacted from behind. He never saw V1. The impact from v1 made him steer left and V2 then impacted the back left corner of V3. He then came to final rest in the median.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V2 was "Other Motor Vehicle in Lane traveling in same direction with higher speed". The Critical Reason for the Critical Pre-crash Event was not coded to this vehicle. Some contributing factors on the part of V2 may include the traffic congestion, the impending problem masked by traffic flow and the external distraction of the actions of the non-contact vehicle.

The driver of V3 stated that he was stopped in lane 2 behind V4. He was going to a doctor's appointment and was not late or in a hurry. He felt the impact to the back left corner of his vehicle but never saw v2 hit him. He tried to miss V4 by steering to the right but could not avoid striking V4's right rear corner. He then drove onto the right shoulder and came to a stop.

The Critical Pre-crash Event for V3 was "Other, not involved in first harmful event". The Critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was not coded to this vehicle. A contributing factor on the part of V3 was the rush hour traffic congestion.

The driver of V4 stated that she never saw the crash developing behind her and never had a chance to take any avoidance actions.