The single vehicle, weekday, morning crash occurred off the left side of 2 eastbound lanes of a straight, level, bituminous, 4-lane interstate roadway. The eastbound lanes were separated from the westbound lanes by an inside shoulder and a cement barrier. At the time of the crash the roadway was dry, it was cloudy, dawn and the traffic was heavy. The speed limit was 113 kmh (70 mph).

V1, a 2003 Jeep Liberty solely occupied by a 29 year-ole female driver, was eastbound in lane 2 of the roadway described above. V1 steered left, steered right then swerved left again. V1 exited the roadway to the left, crossing the inside shoulder, and struck the center cement barrier with it's front. V1 rotated counterclockwise, tripped and rolled over, right side leading, 4 quarter turns along the inside shoulder and lane 2. V1 landed on its wheels in lane 2 then crossed lane 1 and exited the roadway to the right (south side of roadway) coming to rest right side up facing southeast. Police Reported Travel Speed is Not reported for V1.

The driver stated that she was traveling 65-70 mph eastbound in lane 2, moving alone with traffic, when a non-contact vehicle attempted to pass her on the right and cut in front of her. She said she swerved left and braked trying to avoid this vehicle, steered right then swerved left and hit the wall. She said she had just ended her cell phone conversation with her husband when she saw the NC vehicle in her right side rearview mirror passing her.

The Critical pre-crash event for v1 was “This vehicle traveling off the edge of the road on the left side”. The Critical reason for the critical pre-crash event was incorrect evasive action. Some contributing factors on the part of v1 include a non-contact vehicle encroaching into its lane and traveling too fast for the congested traffic conditions. Others include v1's driver talking on a cell phone, which distracted her from being ready to react to the actions of the non-contact vehicle and choosing an inappropriate evasive action/overcompensation while only having one had on the wheel.