This case involves an offset frontal impact between two case vehicles resulting in minor injuries to the driver of vehicle one, serious injuries to the right rear passenger of vehicle one and serious injuries to the driver of vehicle two. The crash occurred during nighttime hours in rainy weather. The roadway was wet and not illuminated by street lights. The collision occurred on a two-way two-lane bituminous roadway with left turn lane for northbound traffic. The roadway is level and straight in origin separated by a double yellow line. The collision occurred without any intersection or traffic control device involvement. Vehicle one (V1 - case vehicle 1), a 2006 four-door BMW 525i passenger sedan, was traveling north and vehicle two (V2 - case vehicle 2), a 2000 Dodge Caravan minivan, was traveling south. The Dodge Caravan had been modified for wheelchair use in the driver position, including lowering the minivan floor, removing the driver seat, steering wheel and associated air bag. The minivan was equipped with a wheelchair docking mechanism, a shoulder belt for use with the wheelchair postural lap belt, and hand controls. The crash occurred when the driver of V2 lost control of the vehicle and entered the oncoming traffic lane into the path of V1. The front plane of V2 impacted the front plane of V1 in a frontal offset configuration. V1 rotated clockwise approximately 160 degrees then traveled south in the northbound lane before coming to final rest facing south. V2 continued to travel south in the northbound lane, departed the north side of the road and came to final rest facing southeast after contacting the posted traffic sign. V1 was driven by a 46 year old male (V1 - case occupant #1) who was restrained by 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt. His steering wheel mounted air bag deployed as a result of the crash. A 7 year old female was seated in the left rear seat restrained by the manual lap and shoulder belt. An 8 year old male (V1 - case occupant #2) was seated in the right rear seat restrained by the 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt. The right side curtain air bag deployed, providing coverage for the rear row. The 8 year old male was transported with serious injuries by ground unit to a pediatric trauma center. The 7 year old female sustained minor injuries and was not transported to a hospital. The driver sustained minor injuries, refused treatment and traveled with the 8 year old to the pediatric hospital, where he subsequently was treated at a neighboring adult hospital. The driver of V2, a 24 year old male (V2 - case occupant #1) with a pre-existing medical condition, was seated in a wheelchair in the driver position restrained by modified shoulder belt along with wheelchair postural lap belt. His wheelchair was rigidly attached to the vehicle through a wheelchair docking mechanism. Due to modifications to V2 including removal of the vehicle steering wheel, there was no air bag present for the driver of V2. V2's passenger frontal airbag deployed as a result of the crash. He was transported with serious injuries by ground unit to a trauma center.