This case involves multiple side impacts to the case vehicle with another vehicle, a building and a bridge resulting in severe injuries to the driver (case occupant #1) and minor injuries to the center rear occupant (case occupant #2). Vehicle one (V1 - case vehicle), a 2004 four-door Lexus RX 330 sport utility vehicle, was traveling north. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Mack tractor with one trailer (dairy tanker), was traveling east. The crash occurred at an intersection during daylight in dry and clear weather. The east-west roadway is a through trafficway and intersects with the north-south roadway forming a four leg intersection. The east-west roadway is a two lane two way road separated by double yellow line with shoulders on either side. The eastbound roadway curves to the left and then to the right as the road approaches the intersection. The north-south roadway is a two lane two way roadway with no shoulders and separated by double yellow line. It is controlled by stop signs. The intersection is surrounded by buildings on three corners and the fourth corner, the southeast corner, is covered by trees. These buildings and trees limit the vision of both drivers as they attempt to cross the intersection. The vision is further limited when vehicles are parked in front of the building on the southwest corner of the intersection. The location of the stop sign on the northbound roadway further limits the vision of the driver, as it is located 40 feet away (rearward) from the intersection. V1 was traveling northbound on the south side of the intersection and was making a left turn at the intersection onto the westbound road. V2 was traveling east on the eastbound roadway. The frontal plane of V2 struck the left side plane of V1 (event 1). Both vehicles continued to move in an eastwardly direction into the opposite traffic lane. Both vehicles crossed the northeast corner of the intersection and continued traveling east on the westbound roadway over the shoulder. The right side plane (front axle area) of V1 impacted the support pole of the house porch at the northeast corner of the intersection (event 2). V2 continued pushing V1onto the north-east shoulder. The right side plane of V1 contacted the bridge rail of a concrete bridge (event 3) . The left fender of V1 contacted the left side plane of V2 crushing V1 between the wall and the V2 (event 4). V1's left quarter panel contacted with left fender of V2 (event 5) at the final rest position facing west. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. V1 had two occupants: the driver, a 39 year old female (case occupant #1), and a center rear passenger, a 2 year old male (case occupant #2). The driver was restrained by a manual lap and shoulder belt. V1's frontal air bags (driver side and passenger side) did not deploy; the left side curtain air bag and left front seat thoracic air bag deployed during the crash. The 2 year old male was restrained by the 5 point harness of a forward facing child restraint system attached to the vehicle using LATCH (Lower Anchors and Tethers for Children). The top tether was not used and the safety seat lower anchor straps were secured to the inner lower anchorage points from the outboard seating positions, a configuration not recommended per the vehicle owner's manual. The driver was transported with severe injuries by ALS flight unit to a level 1 trauma center. The 2 year old male was transported with minor injuries by ALS flight unit to a pediatric trauma center. V2 was driven by a 41 year old male who sustained no injuries.