This case involves an offset frontal impact resulting in injuries to two rear-row seated pediatric occupants restrained in child seats and the driver of the opposing vehicle. The crash occurred during morning daylight hours. There were no adverse weather conditions, and the asphalt (bituminous) roadway was dry and free of defect. The posted speed limit was 72 km/h (45 mph). Vehicle one (V1 - case vehicle), a 2003 Honda Pilot 4-door SUV, was travelling south along a two-lane, two-way roadway. Vehicle two (V2 - case vehicle), a 2009 Nissan 370Z 2-door coupe was traveling north along the same roadway towards V1. The crash occurred when V2 drifted over the double yellow centerline directly into the path of travel of V1. The front left corner of V2 impacted the front left corner of the case vehicle. Post impact, V1 rotated counter-clockwise approximately 90 degrees, coming to final rest off the west side of the roadway, facing east. V2 rotated counter-clockwise approximately 270 degrees, coming to rest in the northbound lane and shoulder, facing east. The 35 year old female driver of V1 was restrained with the available lap and shoulder belt. The steering wheel-mounted frontal airbag and seatback-mounted side thorax airbags deployed for her seating position. The extent of her injuries is unknown. There was no occupant in the front right seating position, though the frontal airbag deployed. In the right rear seat of V1 was a 3 year old male (case occupant A) restrained in a booster seat of unknown make and model with an internal harness. The booster seat was anchored to the vehicle using the LATCH system and the 3-point manual belt system. In the left rear seat of V1 was a 2 year old female (case occupant B) restrained in a forward facing child seat of unknown make and model with an internal harness, which was anchored to the vehicle using the LATCH system and the 3-point manual belt system. The top tether anchors located on the back of the second seatback showed signs of wear, indicating that the top tether was used for both seats. All occupants of the case vehicle were transported to a local hospital. The two child occupants were later transferred to a pediatric trauma facility. The 26 year old male driver of V2 was also enrolled as a CIREN case occupant. It is unknown whether he was wearing his available 3-point lap and shoulder belt due to contradicting evidence. The steering wheel-mounted frontal, side curtain, and seat-mounted thorax airbags all deployed for this occupant's seating position. He was transported by air to a level one trauma center for treatment of his injuries.