This case involves multiple impacts (4 events), including a left side impact crash event (most severe event) followed by a second left side impact crash event, a right side impact and a one quarter turn roll, resulting in moderate injuries to the center rear passenger (case occupant). The crash occurred during daylight hours in dry and clear weather. This bituminous roadway has five lanes, two travel lanes in each direction with dedicated center left turn lane. The collision occurred at a four way intersection controlled by overhead traffic lights. The roadway is level and separated by a double yellow line. The case vehicle (CV), a 2002 four door Cadillac Escalade, was being driven westbound and vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Peterbilt truck tractor pulling a single semi-trailer, was being driven eastbound on the roadway. The crash occurred when V2 attempted to make a left turn and crossed into the path of CV resulting in the front plane of V2 impacting the left side plane of CV. CV rotated counterclockwise approximately 190 degrees and impacted a light pole with its left side plane, then rolled one quarter turn impacting a fence and came to final rest. The CV came to final rest on its right side plane facing west, off the road on the northwest corner of the intersection. V2 came to rest facing north in the westbound lanes. CV was towed from the scene due to damage. V2 was not towed from the scene. CV was driven by a 26 year old male who was not using the available 3-point manual belt. The driver seat-mounted side air bag deployed. The two other occupants of CV included a 22 year old female right-front passenger who was not using the 3-point manual belt and a 13 month old female center-rear passenger (case occupant) restrained by the 5-point harness of a forward facing convertible seat in the center rear position secured with the lower LATCH anchor system. The case ocupant sustained moderate injuries and was transported to an adult trauma center by ground ambulance. Upon follow up with a primary care physician on the day following the crash, the child was brought to a pediatric trauma center. The driver and right front passenger of CV were transported with moderate and minor injuries, respectively, to a trauma center by ground ambulance. The driver of V2 was not injured and not transported to a hospital.