Vehicle #1 (case vehicle) was a 2000 Chevrolet Malibu, 4-dr sedan and Vehicle #2 was a 1998 Ford Ranger, Super King Cab 4X4. V1 was traveling northbound in the right lane of a five-lane (two northbound lanes and three southbound lanes) roadway and is intersected by a two lane roadway (one westbound and one eastbound). This intersection is controlled by traffic signals. V2 was traveling southbound in the left lane and was attempting to execute a left turn at the intersection. As V1 entered the intersection it impacted V2 on the right side with its front bumper. After initial impact, V1 traveled in a northeasterly direction, traveling off the roadway and impacting a light standard. This was V1's final resting position. V2 rotated counterclockwise 110 degrees after initial impact, before traveling to its final resting position on the shoulder in the northeast quadrant of the intersection. At the time of the crash it was dark with overhead street lights on. The bituminous roadway was dry and the weather was clear. There were four occupants in our case vehicle, three of whom were enrolled as case occupants. The first case occupant (089A) was the left rear passenger. He was a 6 year old male (116 cm tall and weighed 20 kg) and was restrained in a Dorel Highrise backless booster seat with the available lap and shoulder belt. He was sleeping at the time of the crash with the left side of his head resting on the left door panel. Our second case occupant was the front right passenger (089B). She was 57 years old (161 cm tall and weighed 71 kg), and was restrained in the available lap and shoulder belt and the passenger air bag. It should be noted that her seat back was deformed by an unrestrained occupant seated in the 2nd row right seating position. Our 3rd case occupant was the driver who was seated in the front left (089C) seating position of the V1. He was 31 years old (180cm tall and weighed 84 kg), and was restrained by the available lap and shoulder belt and the driver air bag. V1 and V2 were both towed from the scene. The 31 year old male front left case occupant (089C) was transported to a local hospital and released with minor injuries. The 57 year old female front right case occupant (089B) was transported from the scene to a local hospital for treatment and admitted for 8 days before being released. The 6 year old male left rear case occupant (089A) was airlifted from the scene to a level-one pediatric trauma center for treatment of his injuries. The unrestrained adult female occupant in the right rear of the vehicle was hospitalized for the treatment of several unknown injuries sustained as a result of contact with the right front seatback and windshield.