This case involves a frontal impact to the case vehicle resulting in severe injuries to the right rear seated case occupant. The vehicle one (V1- case vehicle) is a 2006 Mitsubishi Lancer 4 door passenger sedan. The vehicle two (V2) is a 2001 Ford F-150 extended pick-up truck and the vehicle three (V3) is a 2002 Chevy Tahoe large sports utility vehicle. The crash occurred on a level two lane two way roadway during daylight in dry and clear weather. The northeast-southwest-bound roadways have shoulder lines on either side. The two lanes are separated by double yellow line. On the east side of the crash site the southwest-bound road curves to the right. There is a guardrail on the east side shoulder of the curve. V1 was traveling northeast on the northeast-bound road and V2 was traveling southwest on the southwest-bound road. V3 was traveling immediately behind V1 in the same direction as V1. V2 negotiated the right hand curve, crossed the center line and enter the northeast-bound travel lane. The frontal plane of V2 impacted the frontal plane of V1. V1 was pushed backward and came in contact with the utility pole before coming to the final rest position facing north in the northeast bound lane. V2 continued to travel northeast-bound, rotated counter clockwise as it rolled one quarter turn on its right side plane then continued to slide. The right rear end of V2 impacted the frontal plane of V3, which in turn brought V2 back on its wheels before coming to the final rest position facing northeast in the southwest-bound lane. V3 came to final rest facing northeast on the northeast roadway and did not contact V1 during the crash event. All three vehicles were towed from the scene. There were three occupants in V1. The driver of V1 is a 21 year old male and was restrained by the 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt. The frontal driver airbag deployed during the crash. He sustained severe injuries and was transported to the hospital by ALS ground unit. The right front passenger is a 23 year old male and was restrained by the 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt. The frontal passenger airbag deployed during the crash. He sustained moderate injuries and was transported to the hospital by ALS ground unit. The right rear seat was occupied by the 2 year old male (case occupant #1) and he was restrained in a forward facing child seat with 5-point harness. The child seat was held in the vehicle seat by the 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt. He sustained moderate injuries and was transported to a nearby hospital by ALS ground unit. He was subsequently seen at a pediatric trauma center. The driver of V2 sustained moderate injuries was transported by ALS ground unit to a nearby hospital. The driver of V3 was not injured and was not transported from the scene.