This case involves a rear impact crash resulting in severe injuries to the 2nd row left seat passenger (case occupant ). Vehicle one (V1 - case vehicle), a 2004 Toyota Sienna minivan was being driven westbound by a restrained 33 year old male. In addition to the driver, there were three other occupants in V1 including the the case occupant, a 3 year old male seated in 2nd row left seat. Vehicle two (V2), a 1995 Ford F-150 pickup, was being driven westbound immediately behind V1. Scene The crash occurred on an east-west roadway at a T-type intersection. The north-south road is a two lane two-way road with right turn only lane on the northbound side which feeds to the freeway. The east-west roadway is a two-lane two-way road separated by double yellow line with shoulder on either side. There is no left turn only lane at the intersection. The north end of the east-west roadway has a wide shoulder. The posted speed limit on the east-west roadway is 45 mph (72 km/h). Crash V1 was traveling west in the westbound lane and stopped at the intersection to make a left hand turn. V2 was traveling west immediately behind V1. The frontal plane of V2 impacted the back plane of V1. V1 was pushed forward because of the impact and came to rest facing west in the westbound lane just west of the intersection. V2 continued to move forward and ended up on north shoulder of the east-west roadway facing west. Case occupant The 3 year old male case occupant occupied the 2nd row left seat. He was restrained by a lap and shoulder belt used with a high back booster seat. During the crash, the entire third row seat intruded to the second row seat back, a magnitude greater on the left than the right. The left C-pillar intruded laterally into case occupant's space. The 32 yr old male driver of V1 was wearing the 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt. He had superficial head and facial injuries. The right front passenger is a 33 yr old female and she was restrained by 3-point lap and shoulder belt. She had superficial hip abrasions. The right second seat was occupied by 1 year old female who was restrained by the 5-point harness of a forward facing child seat. The child seat was attached to the vehicle seat using Lower Anchors and Tethers for CHildren (LATCH) and the top tether was used. She sustained superficial hip abrasions. The Driver of V2 is a 39 yr old male and was reported to be unrestrained. During the investigation it was noted that there was a head imprint on the windshield marking the driver's head contact. The injuries to the driver are unknown.