This case involves a severe right side impact event resulting in serious injuries to the left rear seated passenger (case occupant). The Vehicle One (V1 - case vehicle) is a 1993 Mitsubishi Eclipse two-door sports coupe, and Vehicle Two (V2) is a 1997 Chevrolet Blazer two-door SUV. The crash occurred during daylight hours in dry and clear weather on a level roadway. The collision occurred on a four-lane trafficway with two lanes in each direction separated by the raised median. The raised median separates the roadways into two separate one direction two lane roadways. The roadway runs northeast and southwest respectively. The intersecting road is a two way two lane road separated by double yellow line and these lines are worn out. The intersection is controlled by traffic lights for all directions. V1 and V2 were traveling on the road which has the speed limit of 45 mph (72 km/h) and the intersecting road has a speed limit of 25 mph (40 km/h). V1 was traveling northeast-bound and V2 was travelling southwest-bound. The crash occurred when V1 attempted to make a left U turn and crossed into the travel path of V2. The front plane of V2 impacted the right side plane of V1. V1 rotated clockwise and came to final rest facing southwest in the southwest-bound roadway. V2 final rest position is unknown. According to the police report, only V1 was towed from the scene due to damage. There were two occupants in V1. The driver of the V1 is a 23 year old female and was restrained by 2 point automatic shoulder belt. The vehicle is not equipped with a steering wheel mounted air bag and no other air bags are present. Her injury status is unknown. The 3 year old female case occupant was restrained by the 5 point harness, facing forward in a child restraint system of unknown make and model. The child restraint was attached to the vehicle seat using the available manual 3-point lap and shoulder belt. She was located in the left rear seat of V1. The case occupant was transported with serious injuries by ground to a nearby trauma center then subsequently transferred by helicopter to a pediatric trauma center. The driver of the V2 is a 53 year old female and the police reported that she was restrained by 3-point lap and shoulder belt. Her injuries are unknown.