This case involves an unrestrained 39 year old male front right passenger in a 2015 Mercedes Benz CLS400 (V1). There was also a restrained 32 year old male driver in V1. V1 was equipped with dual frontal airbags, dual knee bolster airbags, dual front seat-mounted side airbags, dual front row seat-mounted pelvic airbags, dual side head curtains, and dual second row panel-mounted side airbags. The frontal airbags, knee bolster airbags, right side curtain, and first row side and pelvic airbags all deployed during the crash. V2, a 2008 Jeep Wrangler was also involved in the crash. The crash occurred during the daylight hours on a two-way, two-lane, level asphalt roadway. The northbound lane approaching the impact area was curved to the right and the southbound lane approaching the impact area was straight. The weather was clear and there were no adverse weather conditions. The posted speed limit was 72 kph (45 mph). V1 was traveling north in the northbound lane while negotiating a right-hand curve. V2 was traveling south in the southbound lane approaching the curve. The driver of V1 attempted to negotiate the curve; however, V1 moved left and crossed over the center (double-yellow) lane line. The driver attempted to brake and steer V1 right; however, this maneuver caused him to lose control of his vehicle. The driver of V2 noticed that V1 was in his lane. The driver of V2 steered left in an attempt to avoid a collision; however, the front right of V1 contacted the front right of V2. V2 continued southwest a few feet while rotating clockwise and came to rest off the roadway to its left in a private driveway, facing northwest. After impact with V2, V1 departed the roadway to the left onto a private graveled driveway and then onto a private grass lawn. While on the roadside V1 initially yawed with its left side leading; however, the damage to the right front tire caused rotation in the yawing. V1 rotated around its vertical axis approximately 270 degrees. After V1 rotated the right rear wheel contacted a large rock causing V1 to begin rolling along its longitudinal axis. Before V1 completed one quarter turn its right side contacted a large tree. As it completed its quarter turn on the right side and before separating from the large tree, V1 contacted the tree with its hood. While engaged with the tree V1 and after losing its right front tire V1 pitched slightly with its front leading. V1 then disengaged from the tree while rotating approximately 180 degrees counterclockwise around its lateral axis. Its rotation was stopped after contacting another large tree with its undercarriage (while still on its right side plane). V1 faced northeast at final rest. Both vehicles were towed from the crash scene due to disabling damage. The front right passenger in V1 was transported to a level one trauma center by air. There he received treatment for the serious injuries that he sustained in the crash. The driver of V1 was transported by ground ambulance to a local hospital for treatment of unknown injuries.