This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 13-year-old male unbelted right rear passenger with a deployed side curtain airbag. This occupant was riding in an intermediate size sedan when it was involved in a head-on crash with an intermediate size sedan, incurring moderate damage. This occupant sustained severe injuries in the crash. The crash occurred during late afternoon hours on a wet road in the rain. A 2013 Ford Focus intermediate size sedan (Vehicle 1) was traveling north while negotiating a left curve on a suburban road. The road was bituminous and set on a level grade. V1 was approaching a forked intersection controlled by a stop sign for the cross street ahead of V1. A 2004 Toyota Camry intermediate size sedan (Vehicle 2) was stopped facing south at the forked intersection, waiting to turn left. The grade was also level for V2. V1 continued negotiating the left curve as V2 began turning left into the opposing direction of travel. The two vehicles collided head-on (Event 1). After impact, V1 rotated counterclockwise as V2 rotated clockwise, initiating a side-slap impact (Event 2). Both vehicles came to rest at the second point of impact and were towed due to damage. The 13-year-old male case occupant was sitting in the second row right seat. He reported that he was using the lap belt only, but heavy loading to the first row seatback suggests he was unbelted. The right curtain airbag deployed in the first event. No other airbags were available for this seating position. This occupant stated that at the time of the crash he was leaning forward and looking down at his phone. This occupant was transported to a trauma center for treatment of severe injuries. V1 was driven by a 41-year-old male belted driver and occupied by a 33-year-old female belted right front passenger. Both were wearing the available lap and shoulder belt as evidenced by heavy loading to the belt systems. The retractor and anchor pretensioners actuated for both front row occupants. The vehicle was not equipped with buckle pretensioners. The steering wheel hub, left knee bolster, right instrument panel, outboard seatbacks, and both curtain airbags deployed in the crash. There were no other airbags installed in this vehicle. They suffered only minor injuries in the crash. The driver was transported to a local hospital and the right front passenger to a trauma center for treatment. Of note, the driver of the opposing vehicle died at the scene.