This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 61-year-old male belted driver with deployed front and side airbags. This occupant was driving a compact utility vehicle when it was involved in an offset frontal collision with a compact coupe, sustaining moderate damage. This occupant sustained serious injuries in the crash. The crash occurred during midevening hours on a dry road in clear conditions. It was dark without street lighting. A 2008 Saturn Vue compact utility vehicle (Vehicle 1) was traveling southeast on a bituminous two-lane rural road. The road grade was negligible. A 2008 Chevrolet Cobalt compact coupe (Vehicle 2) was traveling in the opposite direction negotiating a left curve while in a road sag. The road sag limited the visibility of this vehicle to oncoming traffic. V1 began a passing maneuver around a slower vehicle, crossing left over the center line. When a collision between V1 and V2 became imminent, both vehicles steered off the northeast road edge and braked in avoidance. The front of V1 struck the front of V2 in a small overlap frontal configuration (Event 1). The front of V1 pivoted around the left front corner of V2 contacting V2's left front fender and left front door. V1 rotated counterclockwise approximately 100 degrees after impact, coming to rest partially off the northeast shoulder. V2 came to rest in the northeast roadside. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. V1 was driven by a 61-year-old male driver. He was wearing the available lap and shoulder belt as evidenced by 5 cm of lap belt payout and latch plate loading. The driver's retractor and buckle pretensioners did show evidence of actuation despite actuation evidence of the pretensioners in the unoccupied right front seating position. The Event Data Recorder reported actuation of the driver's pretensioners. Varying designs of pretensioners sometimes lead to inconclusive determinations of status. The vehicle was not equipped with anchor pretensioners. The steering wheel hub and both curtain airbags deployed in the crash. The available right instrument panel and first row outboard seatback airbags did not deploy. There were no other airbags installed in this vehicle. This occupant was transported to a hospital before being transferred to a trauma center for treatment of serious injuries. No other occupants were in the vehicle.