This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 43-year-old male belted right front passenger with deployed front and side airbags. This occupant was riding in an intermediate size sedan when it was involved in an offset frontal crash with a compact utility vehicle, sustaining severe damage. This occupant sustained moderate injuries in the crash. The crash occurred during midevening hours on a dry road in clear conditions. A 2014 Dodge Dart intermediate size sedan (Vehicle 1) was traveling west while negotiating a right curve on a suburban road. The road was bituminous and set on a 5% downhill grade with 11% superelevation in the curve. A 2002 Mitsubishi Montero compact utility vehicle (Vehicle 2) was traveling east on a straight level section of the same road V1 was traveling. V2 crossed left over the center line into V1's lane of travel causing V1 to brake in avoidance. The two vehicles impacted head-on in an offset frontal configuration (Event 1). The offset engagement pattern caused both vehicles to rotate clockwise after impact. V1 rotated 160 degrees before coming to rest in the middle of the road. V2 rotated approximately 90 degrees while departing the north edge of the road. V2 encountered a downwards embankment and overturned one quarter-turn (Event 2) to the right in a fall-over type rollover. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case vehicle was occupied by a 43-year-old male who was sitting in the right front seat. He was belted as evidenced by 30 cm of shoulder belt payout and 2 cm of lap belt payout. The retractor and anchor pretensioners were actuated. No buckle pretensioner was installed. He received the benefit of the deployed right instrument panel airbag, right knee bolster airbag, right curtain, and right outboard seatback airbag. No other airbags were available for this seating position. This occupant was transported to a trauma center for treatment of moderate injuries. V1 was driven by a 17-year-old female belted driver. She was wearing the available lap and shoulder belt as evidenced by 1 cm of lap belt payout. The retractor and anchor pretensioners actuated. The driver had the benefit of the steering wheel hub, knee bolster, left curtain, and left outboard seatback airbags. The driver was transported to a trauma center where she was treated for minor injuries and released.