This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 58-year-old female belted right front passenger of a compact sedan with a deployed frontal airbag. This occupant was riding in a 2008 Chevrolet Cobalt when it was involved in a front plane, right-angle impact to an intermediate size sedan. This occupant sustained moderate injuries in the crash. The vehicle sustained moderate damage. The crash occurred during daylight hours on a wet road in the rain. The 2008 Chevrolet Cobalt compact sedan (Vehicle 1) was traveling east on a two-lane two-way shopping center connector road. V1 was approaching a four-way intersection intending to continue straight. The grade of the road was negligible. A 2001 Honda Accord intermediate size sedan (Vehicle 2) was stopped facing south at the same intersection, also with negligible grade of the road, intending to proceed straight. Both vehicles proceeded into the intersection. The front of V1 struck the right plane of V2 (Event 1). Both vehicles came to rest in the intersection a short distance from impact and were towed due to damage. The case vehicle was occupied by a 58-year-old female belted right front passenger. She was wearing the available lap and shoulder belt as evidenced by latch plate loading. The retractor pretensioner was actuated with the belt being found in the payed out position. No buckle or anchor pretensioners were installed. The front right instrument panel airbag was deployed. The available right curtain airbag was not deployed. No other airbags were installed. This occupant was transported to a trauma center for treatment of moderate injuries. The case vehicle was driven by a 53-year-old female belted driver. She was wearing the available lap and shoulder belt as evidenced by latch plate loading. Her retractor pretensioner was actuated and her steering wheel hub airbag was deployed. She was transported and released from a trauma center after sustaining minor injuries. The case vehicle was also occupied by a 53-year-old male belted second row left occupant. The absence of any forward contact evidence served as evidence of belt use, given his weight of 95 kg (209 lbs.). No pretensioners were installed and no airbags were deployed for his seating position. This occupant was reported to be uninjured.