This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 70 year old female restrained driver and 75 year old restrained right front passenger of a 2003 Toyota Corolla (V1), involved in a severe frontal crash with a 1997 Subaru Outback Wagon (V2). For V1, the available driver frontal air bag and right front passenger air bag deployed as a result of this event. A 75 year old restrained female passenger was seated in the right front seating position and a 66 year old unrestrained female passenger was lying in the second row seat. V1 was traveling northbound on a two lane undivided bituminous road approaching a bridge over a small stream. V2 was traveling southbound on the same two lane undivided bituminous road approaching the same bridge from the north. For unknown reasons V2 went off of the southbound travel lane to the right and the right front corner of V2 contacted the guard rail northwest of the bridge. V2 then re-entered the southbound travel lane then crossed over the center line into the northbound travel lane. V2 continued across the northbound travel lane and went off of the road to the left and the left front corner of V2 contacted the east side of the bridge. The contact with the bridge wall redirected V2 back into the southbound travel lane where the front of V2 contacted the front of V1. As a result of the impact, V1 rotated counterclockwise and was translated south and west and came to rest pointing north-northwest across the center line and into the northbound lane. As a result of the impact, V2 rotated clockwise and continued translating south and came to rest pointing southwest in the northbound lane. The restrained 70 year old female driver of V1 (case occupant) was presumed to be in an upright posture. At impact, the case occupant initiated a trajectory forward and slightly to the right in response to the one o'clock impact force. The 75 year old restrained right front passenger (case occupant)would also have initiated a trajectory forward and slightly to the right in response to the impact. The 67 year old unrestrained occupant in the 2nd row was lying on the seat at impact and translated forward into the back of the two front row seats. Following the crash, the driver and right front passenger of V1, and the driver of V2 were transported to a local trauma center by air for treatment of their serious injuries. The 2nd row occupant of V1 was pronounced dead at the scene. Both V1 and V2 were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.