This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted 83 year old male driver, and belted 80 year old female front right passenger, of a 2001 Toyota Sequoia SR5 4-door 4x4 sport utility. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of a full frontal collision with a 2006 Chevrolet Impala LS 4-door sedan (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was northbound on the inboard lane of a five-lane urban roadway. Vehicle 2, a 2006 Chevrolet Impala, and Vehicle 3, a 2002 Dodge Dakota Quad Cab 4x4 pickup truck, were southbound on the inboard lane of the same roadway. It was daylight; with cloudy conditions as the road was dry. The north/southbound travel lanes were divided by a center turn lane. The police reported that Vehicle 2's frontal area impacted the back of Vehicle 3 (event 1). Vehicle 3 subsequently rotated clockwise, departed the right (west) pavement edge, as the back left area struck a W-beam guardrail (event 2). The initial impact re-directed Vehicle 2 towards the southeast, and across the path of the northbound Toyota. As Vehicle 2 crossed the northbound (inboard) travel lane, the frontal area impacted the frontal area of Vehicle 1 (event 3). Impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1. Both vehicles came to rest in close proximity to impact in the northbound (inboard) travel lane. Vehicle 1 came to rest facing northeast, as Vehicle 2 came to rest facing southeast. Vehicle 3 came to rest against the west guardrail, facing northeast. The belted 83 year old male driver of the 2001 Toyota Sequoia was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver initiated a forward (and slightly lateral) trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, knee bolster, and deployed driver air bag. Scratch marks were identified on the bolster, and attributed to driver left knee interaction. A localized scuff mark was documented on the lower aspect of the steering column, and attributed to right knee interaction. No steering wheel rim deformation or column compression was found. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks noted across the face of the membrane. The accelerator pedal was bent left and intruded by toepan deformation, indicative of possible right lower extremity engagement. The belted 80 year old female front right passenger of the 2001 Toyota Sequoia was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the passenger initiated a forward (and slightly lateral) trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, glove compartment door, and deployed passenger air bag. Indentations and scuff marks were identified on the glove box door, which was also found out of place. Interaction with the deployed passenger frontal air bag was evidenced by the makeup transfers noted across the (mid) face of the membrane. Following the crash, the belted 83 year old male driver, and belted 80 year old female front right passenger of Vehicle 1, were transported to a local trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. All three vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.