This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted 66 year old female front right passenger of a 2006 Toyota Camry XLE 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions (deployed), seatback mounted side air bags for the front outboard seating positions (non-deployed), and curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions (left side deployed). Vehicle 1's supplemental restraint systems deployed as a result of a right angled impact with a 2006 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was westbound on a two-lane roadway, on approach to a 4-leg intersection. Vehicle 2 was northbound on a two-lane roadway, on approach to the same intersection. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by stop signs for north/southbound vehicles. It was dark; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 2 entered the intersection to proceed northbound, across the path of the westbound Camry. As both vehicles entered the intersection, the front left area of Vehicle 1 impacted the right front side surface of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1. Vehicle 1 rotated sharply clockwise as the left rear side surface subsequently struck (i.e. "side-slapped") the right side surface of Vehicle 2 (event 2). Impact resulted in additional moderate (non-overlapping) damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, each vehicle continued along its respective post-impact trajectory towards the northwest sector of the intersection, departing the north road edge. The right front side surface of Vehicle 1 struck a U-channel signpost supporting a stop sign (event 3), resulting in minor damage. Vehicle 1 came to rest at the point of final impact (adjacent to the curb) facing southeast. The frontal area of Vehicle 2 swiped the end support post of a W-beam guardrail, and penetrated a nearby chain-link fence (events 4 & 5). Vehicle 2 came to rest in a wooded area (in close proximity to the struck fence), facing northwest. The belted 66 year old female front right passenger of the 2006 Toyota Camry was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-forward track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. It should also be noted that the passenger's belt webbing was found restricted in the used/out position by retractor pretensioner deployment. At impact 1, the front right passenger initiated a forward (and lateral) trajectory in response to the 11 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, glove compartment door, and deployed frontal air bag. A pronounced scratch mark was identified on the glove box door, and attributed to passenger right lower extremity engagement. Localized scratch marks were also documented on the rear lower quadrant of the right front door panel, which appeared consistent with right pelvic interaction. Interaction with the deployed passenger frontal air bag was evidenced by the light scuff marks identified across the face of the membrane. The center console arm rest was found displaced to the left, and attributed to possible passenger left pelvic or flank engagement. The second event re-directed the occupant kinematic laterally to the left, compounding passenger engagement into struck components. The third event was minor in nature, and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the passenger. Following the crash, the belted 67 year old male driver, and belted 66 year old female front right passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local hospital for treatment. The driver of Vehicle 1 was treated and released, as the front right passenger was subsequently transferred to a nearby trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.