This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unbelted 21 year old male driver of a 2005 Ford F-150 4x2 pickup truck. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal air bag deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a large diameter split tree bole (event 1). Vehicle 1 was westbound on a two-lane rural roadway, and negotiating a left curve. The road was bordered to the north/south by shallow ditches and large wooded areas. It was dark; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. Vehicle 1 reached the apex of the curve as the driver allowed it to depart the right (north) road edge. Driver steering maneuvers re-directed the vehicle back across the travel lanes, towards the left (south) road edge. Vehicle 1 departed the south road edge and entered a wooded area where the front left area impacted a split tree bole (with two overlapping trunks). Impact resulted in severe damage (event 1). The tree impact produced a counterclockwise vehicle rotation to final rest. A secondary (adjacent) tree was struck during the spinout phase, resulting in minor damage to the vehicle's left bed surface (event 2). Vehicle 1 came to rest at the point of initial impact, facing southwest. The unbelted 21 year old male driver of the 2005 Ford F-150 was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Although the driver reported to the Crash Investigator that he was belted, interior vehicle evidence indicated otherwise. The lack of restraint use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, relative to the extent of contacts documented across frontal components. At impact 1, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the knee bolster and deployed frontal air bag. Indentations and scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation noted on the aft reinforcement plate. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. At this point, the driver loaded through the deployed frontal air bag and deformed the upper/lower portions of the steering wheel rim. Full compression of the column shear capsules was found. The accelerator and parking brake pedals were bent to the left, indicative of possible driver lower extremity engagement. The second event was minor in nature, and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the occupant. Following the crash, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. The vehicle was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.