This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unbelted 21 year old female driver of a 2008 Honda Civic LX 2-door coupe. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal air bag deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a 1987 Mazda B2000 4x2 pickup truck (Vehicle 2). The case vehicle was also equipped with side (seatback mounted) air bags for the front outboard seating positions, and curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions (deployed; unknown sequence). Vehicle 1 was southbound on a two-lane rural roadway, and negotiating a right curve. Vehicle 2 was northbound on the same roadway, and negotiating a left curve. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. As Vehicle 1 reached the apex of the curve, the driver allowed it to cross the centerline into the path of the northbound Mazda. As Vehicle 1 crossed the northbound lane, the front left area impacted the front left area of Vehicle 2. Impact resulted in severe damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, both vehicles rotated counter-clockwise and began their respective post-impact trajectories to final rest. Vehicle 1 came to rest in the southbound lane, facing northwest. Vehicle 2 came to rest on the east shoulder, facing southwest. The 21 year old female driver of the 2008 Honda Civic was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Although the driver reported that she was belted, the lack of restraint use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, relative to the extent of contacts to frontal components. At impact, the driver initiated a forward (and slightly lateral) trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the knee bolster and deployed frontal air bag. Pronounced indentations, scuff marks, and panel fractures were identified on the left knee bolster. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the localized scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. The brake pedal was found bent to the right, and attributed to possible lower extremity interaction. At this point, the driver loaded through the deployed frontal air bag and deformed the upper/lower portions of the steering wheel rim. Complete compression of the column shear capsules was also noted. During vehicle spinout to final rest, the driver was re-directed to the right in response to the counter-clockwise rotation. The center console, gearshift, and parking brake were deformed to the right, and attributed to (right) lower extremity engagement. Following the crash, the unbelted 21 year old female driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.