This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 52-year-old male front right belted passenger of a 2006 Toyota Prius 5-door intermediate hatchback. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal and side airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The case vehicle was also equipped with curtain airbags for all outboard seating positions. The front right passenger airbag deployed as a result of a frontal collision with a large diameter tree (event 2). V1 was traveling in a northeasterly direction on a two-lane rural road on a slight uphill grade, entering a right curve. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions and the road was dry. The driver allowed V1 to continue in a forward tracking mode across the centerline, and depart the pavement edge onto the left (North) shoulder. The vehicle subsequently penetrated a wooded area, and the frontal area struck a patch of brush (Event 1). This minor impact did not alter V1's trajectory, as it continued in a northeasterly direction into a stand of trees. The vehicle's front center area impacted a large diameter tree, resulting in moderate damage. The front right area struck (almost simultaneously) an adjacent large diameter tree, which resulted in additional moderate damage (Event 3). At this point, V1 rotated clockwise off the struck trees, the left side surface was tipped outboard of its wheels. This post-impact vehicle movement produced a rollover. The sudden vehicle rotation, combined with the environmental slope of the wooded area, initiated a 4-quarter turn left side rollover ("bounce-over"). The rollover impact (event 4) resulted in moderate top damage. V1 came to rest (on its wheels) off the north pavement edge facing southeast. The 52-year-old male front right belted passenger of the 2006 Toyota Prius was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat track adjusted to a full rearward position. Seat belt use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available front right three-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Event 1 was minor in nature, and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the occupant. At Event 2, the front right passenger initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual seat belt, glove box door, and deployed frontal airbag. Pronounced scuff marks were identified on the glove box door, and attributed to lower extremity engagement. The passenger's lower extremities probably compressed the deployed membrane against the surface of the glove box door, which transferred small white fabric strands and scuff marks. Upper extremity/torso interaction with the deployed front right passenger airbag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented across the (upper) face of the membrane. Event 3 compounded the passenger's kinematic response further into frontal components. At Event 4, the kinematic was redirected to the left in response to the roll over, however contact evidence found was not associated with this event. The 83-year-old male belted driver and front right passenger of V1 were transported to a local trauma center. The driver of V1 was treated and released. The front right passenger was admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. V1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.