This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 60 year old male driver, and restrained 68 year old female front right passenger, of a 2010 Dodge Avenger SXT 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a 1998 Chevrolet K1500 Club Cab pickup truck (Vehicle 2). The case vehicle was also equipped with front seat back mounted side air bags, and front/rear curtain air bags (non-deployed). Vehicle 1 was southbound on a two-lane rural (asphalt) roadway, and negotiating a right curve. Vehicle 2 was northbound on the same roadway, and proceeding straight. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. The driver allowed Vehicle 1 to cross the centerline, into the path of the northbound Chevrolet pickup. As Vehicle 1 entered the northbound lane, the front left area impacted the front left area of Vehicle 2. The impact resulted in severe damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, both vehicles rotated counterclockwise and began their respective post-impact trajectories to final rest. Vehicle 1 came to rest straddling the west pavement edge, facing northeast. Vehicle 2 came to rest straddling the east pavement edge, facing northwest. The restrained 60 year old male driver of the 2010 Dodge Avenger was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver initiated a forward and slightly lateral trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, knee bolster, and deployed frontal air bag. Indentations and scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation noted on the aft reinforcement plate. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented across the upper face of the membrane. The upper portion of the steering wheel rim was deformed; however, no steering column compression was found. A localized fracture site was noted on the left mid-instrument panel, and attributed to the driver's left upper extremity. The left lower windshield was holed from hood intrusion, with evidence of penetration extending well into the driver space. The restrained 68 year old female front right passenger of the 2010 Dodge Avenger was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-forward track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the passenger initiated a forward and slightly lateral trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, glove compartment door, and deployed frontal air bag. Pronounced scuff marks were identified on the glove compartment door, which was also found out of place. Interaction with the deployed passenger frontal air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. Following the crash, the restrained 60 year old male driver and restrained 68 year old female front right passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.