This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 44-year-old female belted driver of a 2006 Chevrolet Equinox compact utility. Vehicle 1 was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The steering wheel hub airbag deployed as a result of a head-on oblique angled collision with a 1996 Pontiac Grand Am compact coupe (Vehicle 2). The case occupant suffered serious injuries in the crash. V1 was eastbound on a two-lane rural asphalt road and proceeding straight on a slight uphill approach to a right curve. V2 was westbound on the same road and negotiating a left curve on a downhill slope. It was a dark unlit street, with no adverse weather conditions. The driver of V2 allowed the vehicle to partially depart the right north pavement edge onto the grass shoulder. The driver of V2 steered left and braked in an attempt to re-enter the road. This maneuver initiated a counterclockwise rotation as V2 subsequently traversed the travel lanes, across the path of the eastbound V1. As V2 crossed the eastbound lane, the front right area was impacted by the frontal area of V1 (Event 1). This event resulted in moderate damage to V1. At this point V2 rotated counterclockwise as engagement continued down the left side of V1 (Event 2 ). V1 came to rest on the south shoulder facing northeast as V2 came to rest straddling the north fog line facing southwest. The 44-year-old female belted driver of V1 was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat track at a full forward position. Seat belt use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available lap and shoulder belt system. It should be noted that the vehicle's Event Data Recorder (EDR) reported the driver's belt switch circuit status as "buckled". The driver initiated a forward and slightly lateral trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual seat belt, knee bolster, and deployed frontal airbag. Indentations and scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation noted on the aft reinforcement frame. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the scuff marks and makeup transfers documented across the face of the membrane. The upper portion of the steering wheel rim was deformed, with partial compression of the column shear capsules found. A localized spiderweb fracture pattern was identified on the left upper windshield and attributed to the driver’s left hand contact. Following the crash the driver and sole occupant of V1 was transported to a local hospital for treatment. She was subsequently transferred to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.