This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted 49 year old female front right passenger of a 2005 Chevrolet Cavalier 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of a rear-end collision with a 2005 Hummer H2 4x4 4-door sport utility (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 2 was southbound and slowing to a stop at a 4-leg intersection, on the inboard through lane of a multi-lane urban roadway. Vehicle 1 was also southbound and approaching from the rear, in the outboard travel lane. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by overhead tri-lights. It was dusk; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The driver of Vehicle 1 failed to observe traffic congestion ahead, and steered left in avoidance. The front right area of Vehicle 1 subsequently impacted the back left area of Vehicle 2 (event 1). The initial impact resulted in moderate damage, as contact was sustained rearward along Vehicle 1's right side surface, to the A-pillar. At this point, a snag occurred at Vehicle 1's front axle, resulting in a post-impact clockwise rotation. Vehicle 1 began to travel laterally in a southeasterly direction, as the left side wheels began digging into the asphalt surface. This produced a roll moment, as the vehicle's center of gravity was tipped outboard of its wheels. This mechanism initiated a 4-quarter turn left side rollover, which resulted in moderate damage (event 2). Vehicle 1 came to rest (on its wheels) in the roadway, across the northbound travel lanes, facing west. Vehicle 2 came to rest in close proximity to the initial point of impact (in the southbound inboard through lane), facing south. The belted 49 year old female front right passenger of the 2005 Chevrolet Cavalier was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact 1, the passenger initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint and deployed frontal air bag. Interaction with the deployed passenger frontal air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks identified across the face of the membrane. At impact 2, the front right passenger was out-of-position forward; as the kinematic was re-directed (vertically & laterally) in response to the roll moment. During the rollover, the front right passenger struck the right A-pillar, as evidenced by the hair strands, skin tissue, and localized indentation identified on this component. Following the crash, the belted 34 year old male driver, and belted 49 year old female front right passenger of Vehicle 1, was transported to a local trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was reported by medical personnel as uninjured in the collision. The front right passenger of Vehicle 1 was admitted for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.