This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 57-year-old female belted front right passenger of a 2003 Mazda Tribute compact utility vehicle. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions, which deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a 2004 Toyota Tacoma compact pickup truck (Vehicle 2). V1 was eastbound on a rural two-lane road proceeding straight. V2 was westbound on the same road, negotiating a right curve on a downhill slope. It was dark, but the street was lighted by overhead lamps. There were no adverse weather conditions, and the roads were dry. The road was level in both directions at the point of impact. Immediately west of the crash site, a narrow railroad bridge underpass provided limited sight distance for eastbound vehicles. As V2 reached the end of the curve, it crossed the centerline into the path of the eastbound V1. Upon recognition of the impending harmful event, the driver of V1 steered left in avoidance. The front right area of V1 was impacted by the front right area of V2 (Event 1). Impact resulted in severe damage to V1. Both vehicles rotated clockwise and began their respective post-impact trajectories to final rest. V1 came to rest straddling the centerline, facing southeast. V2 came to rest straddling the south pavement edge, facing northwest. The 57-year-old female belted front right passenger of the 2003 Mazda Tribute was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-track position. Seat belt use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available front right three-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. The front right passenger moved in a forward and slightly lateral right trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force, loading the manual seat belt, glove compartment door, and deployed passenger frontal airbag. The glove compartment door was noted to be displaced, cracked, and heavily scuffed. This contact evidence was attributed to passenger lower extremity engagement. Interaction with the deployed passenger frontal airbag was evidenced by scuff marks identified across the face of the membrane. The 57-year-old male belted driver and the right front case occupant were both transported to a local trauma center. The driver of V1 was treated and released. The front right passenger was admitted for treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.