This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 45-year-old female belted driver of a 2005 Honda CR-V compact utility vehicle. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal airbag deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a 2005 Chrysler PT Cruiser five-door hatchback (Vehicle 2). The case vehicle was also equipped with seatback mounted side airbags for the front outboard seating positions (right front deployed) and curtain airbags for all outboard seating positions (right side deployed). V1 was westbound on the inboard travel lane of a multi-lane road on approach to a six-way urban intersection. The road was level. V2 was eastbound in the outboard travel lane proceeding straight through the same intersection. The crash site was located within a large underpass at an interstate interchange area. Access ramps to the interstate provided a junction to the multi-lane urban east/west artery. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by overhead tri-lights for all lanes of traffic. It was daylight with no adverse weather conditions and the roads were dry. It should be noted that certain daylight conditions (e.g. "sunny/bright") could produce a limited sight distance into the urban junction. V1 initially maneuvered into the left turn lane to proceed southbound onto the interstate on-ramp, across the path of the eastbound V2. As V1 crossed the eastbound lanes, the front right area was impacted the frontal area of V2. Impact resulted in severe damage to V1 and resulted in a clockwise rotation to final rest (in the southwest sector of the intersection), facing northwest. V2 came to rest in the eastbound lanes facing northeast. The 45-year-old female belted driver of the 2005 Honda CR-V was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat approximated at a mid-track position. Seat belt use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver three-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. It should also be noted that the driver's belt webbing was found restricted in the used/out position by retractor pretensioner deployment. The driver moved in a forward (and slightly lateral) trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual seat belt, knee bolster, and deployed frontal airbag. Scuff marks and panel fractures were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation noted to the aft support structure. This contact evidence was attributed to probable right lower extremity engagement. A localized area of contact, which included a scuff mark and cover panel cracking, was documented on the lower aspect of the steering column. This point of contact was attributed to possible left lower extremity engagement. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the scuff marks identified across the face of the membrane. The 45-year-old female belted driver (and sole occupant) of V1 was transported to a local hospital for treatment. The driver of V1 was subsequently transferred to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.