This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 60-year-old male unbelted driver of a 2002 Nissan Frontier compact pickup truck. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an oblique angled collision with a 1991 Peterbilt 377 tractor-trailer (Vehicle 2). V1 was southbound on a two-lane rural road, negotiating a left curve on approach to a three-way intersection. V2 was northbound on the same road, negotiating a right curve on a downhill slope. It was daylight with no adverse weather conditions and the roads were dry. A non-contact vehicle was reportedly stopped in the road ahead of V2 facing north and attempting to turn left (west) at the intersection. Traffic was stopped ahead of V2 who braked in avoidance of the impending harmful event. V2 subsequently jackknifed and crossed the centerline (broadside across both travel lanes) into the path of the southbound V1. As V2 entered the southbound travel lane, the left side surface of the tractor trailer was impacted by the frontal area of V1 (Event 1). Impact resulted in moderate damage to V1 and revealed engagement with one of the tractor's left side rear tandem axle tires. At this point, V1 rotated clockwise, departed the left pavement edge, and struck a W-beam guardrail on the east shoulder (Event 2). This resulted in minor rear (back left) damage to V1. V1 came to rest at the point of final impact against the guardrail, straddling the east pavement edge facing southwest. V2 came to rest across the north/south roadway, facing northeast. The 60-year-old male unbelted driver of the 2002 Nissan Frontier was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a midtrack position (knees against bolster). The lack of seat belt use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the available three-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. In addition, the seat belt was found restricted in the stowed position by retractor pretensioner deployment. The driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the knee bolster, deployed driver frontal airbag, and steering column and rim. Multiple cracks and scuff marks were identified on the knee bolster with additional contact evidence noted on the adjacent steering column. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. The driver loaded through the deployed frontal airbag and continued the kinematic response into the left sun visor/windshield. The upper portion of the steering wheel rim was deformed, with partial compression of the column shear capsules identified. The steering column was also displaced upward and to the left. The left sun visor was deformed in a semi-circular pattern (component fabric abraded) with a localized spider web crack noted on the adjacent windshield. The second impact redirected the occupant kinematic to the left in response to the lateral impact force, but no interior contact evidence was attributed to this event. The male unbelted driver and 12-year-old male belted front right passenger of V1 were transported to a local trauma center. The driver of V1 was admitted for treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. The front right passenger of V1 was treated and released. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.