This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 71-year-old female belted driver of a 2008 Chevrolet Impala LT full size sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal airbag deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a 2001 GMC Yukon large utility vehicle (Vehicle 2). The case vehicle was also equipped with curtain airbags for all outboard seating positions (non-deployed). V1 was northbound uphill on a rural two-lane asphalt road, negotiating a right curve. V2 was southbound on the same road, entering a left curve. It was daylight with no adverse weather conditions, and the road was dry. The driver of V1 crossed the centerline into the path of the southbound V2. V1 entered the southbound travel lane and the front left area impacted the front left area of V2 (Event 1). The impact resulted in severe damage to V1. The offset nature of the engagement allowed direct contact to continue longitudinally down the left side surface of V1 to the A-pillar resulting in additional moderate damage. Both vehicles began their respective post-impact trajectories to final rest. V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest in close proximity to the point of impact, straddling the centerline, facing northwest. V2 subsequently departed the west pavement edge as the front right area struck a small diameter tree (Event 2). V2 came to rest at the final point of impact (off the west pavement edge) facing southwest. The 71-year-old female belted driver of the 2008 Chevrolet Impala was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Seat belt use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver three-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. The vehicle's Event Data Recorder (EDR) reported the driver belt switch status as "buckled." The driver initiated a forward and slightly lateral trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the knee bolster and deployed frontal airbag. Scuff marks and indentations were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation noted on the aft reinforcement plate. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the multiple (linear and circular) scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. No rim deformation was found, but partial compression of the column shear capsules was identified. A localized contact point was also documented on the left front door armrest. A small crack, indentation, and stress mark surrounding the site on the armrest suggested pelvic/flank interaction during the elongated collision sequence. The driver (and sole occupant) of V1 was reported by police to have refused transport to medical facilities but she sought treatment several hours later at a local hospital where she was discharged after two days. After another day, she returned to the local hospital and was subsequently transferred to the trauma center for treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.