This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unbelted 49 year old male driver of a 2011 Ford Focus SEL 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal air bag deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a large diameter tree (event 1). The case vehicle was also equipped with side (seatback mounted) air bags for the front outboard seating positions, and curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions. The left front side air bag and left/right curtain air bags deployed as a result of a secondary impact with a large diameter tree (event 2). Vehicle 1 was westbound on a two-lane rural roadway, and negotiating a left curve. The road was bordered to the north/south by shallow ditches and large wooded areas. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. The vehicle traversed the travel lanes and continued in a southwesterly direction towards the left (south) road edge. Vehicle 1 subsequently departed the south pavement edge in a forward tracking mode, and entered a shallow ravine. At this point, the vehicle penetrated a wooded area as the front left impacted a large diameter tree (event 1). Impact resulted in moderate frontal damage to Vehicle 1. The vehicle rebounded slightly as the left rear side surface struck a second, adjacent tree (event 2). Impact resulted in minor damage to Vehicle 1. Vehicle 1 came to rest against the struck trees (off the south road edge), facing northwest. The unbelted 49 year old male driver of the 2011 Ford Focus was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. The lack of restraint use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, relative to the extent of contacts documented across frontal components. It should also be noted that the vehicle's Event Data Recorder (EDR) reported the driver's belt switch circuit status as "unbuckled". At impact 1, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the knee bolster, and deployed frontal air bag. Indentations and scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation noted on the aft reinforcement plate. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the fabric transfers and scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. Although no steering wheel rim deformation was found, complete compression of the column shear capsules was noted. The driver continued the kinematic response into the left mid-windshield area, as evidenced by the spider web fracture pattern identified on this component. The second event re-directed the (out-of-position) occupant kinematic to the left in response to the 9 o'clock impact force. A localized scuff mark was documented on the inboard aspect of the deployed left curtain airbag, and attributed to this event. Following the crash, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. The vehicle was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.