This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted 23 year old female front right passenger of a 2008 BMW 328i 2-door coupe. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), seat back-mounted side air bags (for the front outboard seating positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The frontal air bags, left front side air bag, and left curtain air bag deployed as a result of an oblique angled collision with a 1995 Chevrolet Tahoe 4-door 4x4 sport utility (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was northbound on a two-lane rural roadway, and negotiating a right curve. Vehicle 2 was southbound on the same roadway, and proceeding straight. It was dusk; with snowy weather conditions as the roads were slick. Vehicle 1 exited the curve (into the straight away), and reportedly broke traction on the slick road surface. Vehicle 1 began to rotate clockwise and cross the centerline, into the path of the southbound Chevrolet. As Vehicle 1 entered the southbound travel lane, the left side surface was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2. The impact resulted in severe damage to Vehicle 1. Event 1 reversed Vehicle 1's rotation as it spun counterclockwise to final rest in the northbound lane (facing northwest). Vehicle 2 also rotated counterclockwise, as the back area subsequently struck a W-beam guardrail on the north shoulder (event 2). Vehicle 2 came to rest straddling the north pavement edge facing southeast. The belted 23 year old female front right passenger of the 2008 BMW 328i was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-track position. Restraint usage was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. In addition, the belt was found to be restricted in the used/out position by pretensioner deployment. At impact, the front right passenger initiated a lateral and forward trajectory in response to the 10 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, deployed front right passenger air bag, and driver seat back. Interaction with the deployed front right passenger air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks identified on the left aspect of the membrane face. The inboard taper of the driver seat back was deformed left from engagement, and also deformed forward from rear passenger engagement. The leather seat covering adjacent to the contact site(s) was noted to be abraded and discolored. Following the crash, the belted 54 year old male driver, and unbelted 50 year old female rear left passenger of Vehicle 1, were pronounced deceased at the scene. The front right passenger of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.