This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted 70 year old female driver of a 2006 Scion SXA 4-door hatchback. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal air bag deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with an embankment (event 1). The case vehicle was also equipped with (seat back mounted) side impact air bags for the front seating positions (non-deployed), and curtain airbags for all outboard seating positions (left side non-deployed). Vehicle 1 was westbound on a two-lane rural roadway, and crested a hill while negotiating a right curve. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. The road was bordered to the north by a narrow grass shoulder and earthen embankment. The driver allowed the vehicle to depart the right (north) road edge, and continue in a forward tracking mode. Vehicle 1 straddled a ditch, as the front left area subsequently impacted an embankment which bordered a private driveway (event 1). The impact resulted in moderate vehicle damage. Vehicle 1 rotated sharply counterclockwise and traversed the driveway in a lateral motion. A roll moment was produced as the center of gravity was tipped outboard of its wheels. This initiated a 6-quarter turn right side rollover ("bounce-over"). The rollover (event 2) resulted in moderate top damage. During the rollover sequence, the right rear side surface struck a small concrete drainage cover. This third and final (non-horizontal) event resulted in additional moderate damage. Vehicle 1 re-entered the westbound lane and came to rest upside down (on its roof), facing northeast. The belted 70 year old female driver of the 2006 Scion SXA was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-forward track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Furthermore, the belt was found restricted in the used/out position by retractor pretensioner deployment. At impact 1, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint and deployed frontal air bag. No indentations or scuff marks were noted on the left knee bolster. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks identified across the face of the membrane. The roll moment re-direct the driver kinematic towards the roof area, as subsequent quarter turns initiated movement to the left. A broad area of hair strands was documented on the headliner just above the driver space. A localized area of skin tissue was identified on the left roof side rail and adjacent handle bar. Across this overlapping contact pattern, blood pooling was noted, indicative of driver final rest (relative to the vehicle's orientation). Following the crash, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. The vehicle was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.