This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 30 year old female front right passenger, and a restrained 29 year old male rear right passenger, of a 2009 Ford Focus SE 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal and side air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The case vehicle was also equipped with curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions. The right front side air bag and right curtain air bag deployed as a result of an oblique angled collision with a 2004 Ford F250 Super Duty 4x2 pickup (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was westbound on a two-lane rural (asphalt) roadway, on approach to a 4-leg intersection. Vehicle 2 was southbound on a two-lane roadway, on approach to the same intersection. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by stop signs for east/westbound traffic. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 entered the intersection to proceed straight (west); across the path of the southbound Ford pickup. As Vehicle 1 crossed the southbound lane, the right side surface was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2 (event 1). The impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, both vehicles were re-directed towards the southwest sector of the intersection. Vehicle 1 departed the south shoulder, as the left side surface struck a U-channel signpost supporting a stop sign (event 2). This secondary impact resulted in minor damage. Vehicle 1 came to rest at the final point of impact (in the southwest sector) facing northwest. Vehicle 2 came to rest straddling the south pavement edge facing southwest. The unrestrained 30 year old female front right passenger (case occupant 1) of the 2009 Ford Focus was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat approximated to be at a mid-track position. The lack of restraint use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. In addition, the front right belt was found restricted in the stowed position by lateral component intrusions. At impact 1, the front right passenger initiated a lateral and slightly forward trajectory in response to the 3 o'clock impact force and loaded the deployed side air bag, curtain air bag, and right front door interior surface. Interaction with the deployed side air bag and curtain air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks identified on the inboard surface of each membrane. Indentations, panel fractures, and scuff marks were documented from the forward lower to the rear upper quadrants of the right front door interior surface. These pronounced contacts were attributed to the right pelvic and lower extremity regions. The front right occupant's loading of right side components may have been compounded by driver penetration into the passenger space. Impact 2 was minor in nature, and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the occupant. The 29 year old male rear right passenger of the 2009 Ford Focus (case occupant 2) was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, and faced forward. The police reported that the passenger was restrained; however, no significant loading evidence was noted on the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system to confirm usage. At impact 1, the rear right passenger initiated a lateral and slightly forward trajectory in response to the 3 o'clock impact force and loaded the deployed curtain air bag, and right rear door interior surface. Interaction with the deployed curtain air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks identified on the inboard surface of the membrane. Indentations, panel fractures, and scuff marks were documented from the forward lower to the rear upper quadrants of the right rear door interior surface. These pronounced contacts were attributed to the right pelvic and lower extremity regions. Impact 2 was minor in nature, and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the occupant. Following the crash, the restrained 32 year old male driver, unrestrained 30 year old female front right passenger, restrained 21 year old male rear left passenger, and restrained 29 year old male rear right passenger of Vehicle 1, were transported to a nearby trauma center for treatment. The driver of Vehicle 1 was reported by medical personnel as uninjured in the collision. The rear left passenger of Vehicle 1 sustained minor injuries, and was treated and released. The front right and rear right passengers of Vehicle 1 were admitted for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.