This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 74 year old female driver of a 2009 Ford Expedition EL XLT 4-door 4x2 sport utility. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a culvert. The case vehicle was also equipped with front seat back mounted side air bags, and front/rear curtain air bags (non-deployed). Vehicle 1 was northbound on a two-lane rural (asphalt) roadway, and negotiating a left curve on approach to a 3-leg intersection. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by a stop sign for eastbound (turning) vehicles. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. As Vehicle 1 approached the intersection, the driver of Vehicle 1 steered right in avoidance. Vehicle 1 subsequently departed the right (east) pavement edge and continued in a northeasterly direction across a private yard. At this point, the vehicle traversed a gravel driveway as the front right area impacted a culvert. The impact resulted in moderate damage, as engagement continued longitudinally into the vehicle's sub-frame and undercarriage. Maximum engagement with the culvert was identified at the vehicle's right front wheel/tire. Vehicle 1 came to rest in the adjacent private yard, facing northeast. The restrained 74 year old female driver of the 2009 Ford Expedition was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint and deployed frontal air bag. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks identified across the face of the membrane (partially masked by blood spatter). Although no steering rim deformation was documented, full compression of the column shear capsules was found. Following the crash, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.