This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted 41 year old male driver of a 2011 Kia Rio 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed during a multiple impact scenario (deployment event unknown). The case vehicle was also equipped with side air bags (for the front outboard seating positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions), which deployed as a result of a rollover impact (event 3). Vehicle 1 was southbound on a multi-lane divided interstate highway, and negotiating a left curve within the inboard travel lane. The north/southbound travel lanes were divided, and bordered by, mountains and embankments. There was a steep negative grade for southbound traffic, with runaway truck ramps at posted increments along the west shoulder. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The driver reportedly fell asleep and allowed Vehicle 1 to depart the left (east) shoulder, and enter the center median. As Vehicle 1 crossed the pavement edge, the front left area struck a small roadside marker, supported by a U-channel signpost (event 1). The initial impact resulted in minor damage, and did not alter Vehicle 1's trajectory as it continued into the center median. At this point, the front left area impacted an embankment resulting in moderate damage (event 2). Although initial contact was made immediately under Vehicle 1's front bumper, maximum engagement with the embankment was reached along Vehicle 1's undercarriage, just forward of the front axle. The embankment impact initiated a ramping mechanism, which rotated the vehicle about its longitudinal axis. This produced a roll moment, as the vehicle's center of gravity was tipped outboard of its wheels. Vehicle 1 subsequently rolled over (i.e. "flip-over") 6 quarter turns to the right (event 3). The rollover event resulted in severe top damage. Maximum engagement was identified at the right A-pillar. Vehicle 1 came to rest (on its top) along the inboard (southbound) travel lane, facing northeast. The belted 41 year old male driver of the 2011 Kia Rio was presumed to be faced-forward, with the seat adjusted to a full-rearward track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. In addition, the belt was found restricted in the used/out position by retractor pretensioner deployment. Impact 1 was minor in nature, and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the driver. At impact 2, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force. Interaction with the deployed driver air bag during the collision sequence was evidenced by the scuff marks identified across the face of the membrane (deployment event unknown). At this point, the occupant kinematic was re-directed to the right in response to the roll moment. During the subsequent rollover, the driver kinematic was re-directed to the left. Skin tissue and a pronounced indentation were documented on the left aspect of the roof. Scuff marks were noted on the deployed side air bag and curtain air bag. Localized areas of skin tissue and hair strands were identified on the left front window frame, indicative of a partial ejection through the disintegrated glazing. Following the crash, the belted male driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.