This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 58 year old female driver of a 2008 Ford Fusion SEL 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal air bag deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a bridge wall. The case vehicle was also equipped with (seat back mounted) side air bags for the front outboard seating positions, and curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions (non-deployed). Vehicle 1 was eastbound on a two-lane rural (asphalt) roadway, and negotiating a right curve on an uphill slope. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. Vehicle 1 approached a bridge overpass as the driver reportedly observed a non-contact vehicle, traveling westbound, encroach into the eastbound lane. The driver steered right in successful avoidance, as subsequent corrective maneuvers re-directed Vehicle 1 towards the left (north) bridge wall. As Vehicle 1 departed the north road edge, the front left area impacted the concrete bridge wall (event 1). The impact resulted in moderate damage. At this point, contact separation occurred as Vehicle 1 re-entered the road, traversed the westbound travel lane, and continued in a northeasterly direction back towards the north bridge wall. The vehicle's front left area struck the bridge wall a second time, resulting in additional (overlapping) moderate damage. The direct damage extended rearward down the left side surface of the vehicle in a sideswipe type pattern. Vehicle 1 came to rest at the point of final impact (against the north bridge wall), facing east. Following the crash, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital for treatment. The driver of Vehicle 1 was subsequently transferred to a nearby trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.