This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 74 year old female driver of a 2012 Nissan Altima 2-door coupe. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions (non-deployed), side (seat back mounted) air bags for the front outboard seating positions (left front deployed), and curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions (left side deployed). Vehicle 1 sustained moderate left side damage as a result of a right angle impact with a 2003 Saturn Vue 4-door sport utility (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was eastbound on a two-lane roadway, on approach to a 4-leg intersection. Vehicle 2 was southbound on the inboard lane of a multi-lane roadway, and proceeding straight. Vehicle 3 was stopped and facing north on the inboard lane on the south sector of the intersection. It was daylight, with rainy weather conditions as the roads were wet. Traffic control consisted of overhead tri-lights. Vehicle 1 entered the intersection to proceed straight (east), across the path of the southbound Saturn. As both vehicles entered the intersection, the left side surface of Vehicle 1 was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1. The initial impact re-directed both vehicles into the southeast sector of the intersection. Vehicle 1 departed the east pavement edge and came to rest in a private yard facing southeast. Vehicle 2 rotated counterclockwise and entered the northbound (inboard) travel lane, across the path of a 2006 Toyota Scion (Vehicle 3). The police reported a secondary impact as Vehicle 2's right side struck Vehicle 3's left side surface. Vehicle 2 came to rest in close proximity to the point of secondary impact facing northeast, alongside Vehicle 3 (faced north). Following the crash, the unbelted 74 year old female driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital for treatment. She was subsequently transferred to a nearby trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. All three vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.