This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 45-year-old male belted driver of a 2006 Scion XB subcompact 5-door hatchback. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal airbag deployed as a result of an oblique angled collision with a 2002 Ford Focus compact sedan (Vehicle 2). V1 was southbound on a two-lane rural road and proceeding straight. V2 was northbound on the same road also proceeding straight. It was daylight with rainy weather conditions. Within the vicinity of the crash site, a sag area produced standing water on the asphalt-surfaced road, according to police. Just south of the crash site a narrow bridge crossed a stream. V2 reportedly broke traction on the wet road surface and initiated a counterclockwise rotation on a downhill slope. V2 entered the southbound travel lane across the path of the southbound V1. As V2 crossed the southbound lane, the right front side surface was impacted by the front left area of V1. The impact resulted in severe damage to V1. At this point, V1 rotated counterclockwise and was redirected towards the southwest. V1 came to rest on the west shoulder facing southeast. The impact compounded V2's counterclockwise rotation as it continued in a northwesterly direction. V2 came to rest on the west shoulder facing southeast. The police narrative stated V2's engine was knocked loose by the collision and found on the east shoulder of the road. The 45-year-old male belted driver of V1 was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat approximated at a mid-to-rear track position. Seat belt use was evidenced by loading marks documented on the available lap and shoulder belt system. It should also be noted that the belt webbing was found restricted in the used/out position by component intrusions. The driver initiated a forward and slightly lateral trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual seat belt, knee bolster, and deployed frontal airbag. Scuff marks and indentations were identified on the left knee bolster with pocketing of the left lower extremity noted. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. Deformation identified on the upper portion of the steering wheel rim suggested possible driver loading through the deployed frontal airbag. Partial compression of the column shear capsules could support loading through this supplemental restraint. The belted 45-year-old male driver and sole occupant of V1 was transported to a local hospital for treatment. The driver of V1 was subsequently transferred to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.