This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted, 48-year-old, female driver with a deployed air bag (V1) and a belted, 19-year-old, male driver with a deployed airbag (V2). V2 was also occupied by a belted, 19-year-old, female right front passenger with a deployed airbag. The 48-year-old female driver of V1 sustained moderate injuries in an offset frontal crash with V2. The 19-year-old male driver of V2 sustained severe injuries. The crash occurred in the mid-morning hours of a dry, clear day. A 2004 Jeep Grand Cherokee SUV (V1) was negotiating a left curve on an urban, bituminous, two-lane, one-way roadway heading north. There was a 2% downhill grade for these northbound lanes. A 2009 Dodge Charger sedan (V2) was traveling south in the opposite direction of V1 on a parallel roadway of the same characteristics. The two parallel roadways were separated by a grass median. There was a 2% uphill grade in the southbound direction. As V1 negotiated the left curve, it lost control and traveled off the roadway to the left, crossing the grass median towards the oncoming lanes. V1 then re-entered the roadway and impacted V2 in the left lane of travel. The front of V1 initially contacted the front left corner of V2. V1's front then engaged the left plane of V2 in a continuous impact event. V1 came to rest north of the point of impact. V2 was pushed west across both lanes of travel before coming to rest south of the initial point of impact in the west roadside. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. V1 was driven by a 48-year-old female case occupant. She was restrained by a lap and shoulder belt and a deployed steering wheel airbag. The vehicle was not equipped with pretensioners or side airbags. She was transported to a local trauma center by ground ambulance where she was diagnosed with moderate injuries. V2 was driven by a 19-year-old male case occupant. He was restrained by a lap and shoulder belt with an actuated retractor pretensioner and a deployed steering wheel airbag. The vehicle was not equipped with side airbags. He was transported to a local trauma center by ground ambulance where he was diagnosed with severe injuries. V2 was also occupied by a 19-year-old female right front passenger. She was transported to a local trauma center by ground ambulance, but was not reported to have any injuries.