This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an 83-year-old female belted driver of a 2005 Ford Escape XLT compact utility vehicle. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions (non-deployed). V1 sustained moderate right side damage as a result of an oblique-angled impact with a 2002 Hyundai Elantra compact sedan (Vehicle 2). Moderate top damage was incurred from a rollover event that followed. V1 was southbound on the inboard travel lane of a four-lane rural road, proceeding straight. V2 was initially facing east and attempting to turn right (south) from a parking lot onto the main thoroughfare. The north/southbound lanes were divided by a large grass median, which bordered a narrow drainage ditch running parallel to the travel lanes. It was daylight with no adverse weather conditions. The roads were dry with a downhill grade. V2 exited the parking lot to proceed south across the path of the southbound V1. As V2 entered the inboard (southbound) travel lane, the front left area impacted the right front wheel of V1 (Event 1). Impact resulted in minor wheel damage and redirected V1 into the center median. During spinout, V2's left rear wheel swiped the right side surface (right rear door) of V1 (Event 2). V1 continued across the median in a southeasterly direction, towards the narrow drainage ditch. The slope of the center median allowed V1's undercarriage to engage the ditch back slope (Event 3), resulting in minor damage. V1 began to rotate counterclockwise as the right side wheels dug into the soft soil. V1's center of gravity was tipped outboard of its wheels, which produced a roll over. A four-quarter turn right-side rollover followed, resulting in moderate top damage (Event 4). V1 came to rest upright (on its wheels) in the center median, facing northwest. V2 came to rest in close proximity to the initial point of impact in the southbound (outboard) travel lane, facing south. The driver (and sole occupant) of V1 was transported to a local hospital for treatment. The driver of V1 was subsequently transferred to a nearby trauma center and admitted for further treatment of moderate injuries sustained in the collision. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.