Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 65-year old, female driver, of a 2002 Honda Civic, which was involved in a frontal collision with the frontal plane of a 2011 Toyota RAV4. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the post mid-day hour (daylight) of a summer weekday, at the intersection of an east/west trafficway and a north/south roadway. At the intersection, the east/west trafficway is composed of three eastbound lanes and three westbound lanes (two through lanes and a dedicated left turn lane for both directions), separated by concrete barrier wall (with guardrail extensions at the intersection). The westbound travel direction has a slight downhill grade (less than a 2% grade). The north/south roadway intersects the east/west trafficway at an angle. The east/west trafficway is straight with a speed limit of 55 mph (89 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were reported to be dry. It should also be noted that congestion in the area, had caused traffic to come to a temporary stop in the eastbound travel direction, at the area of the intersection Vehicle 1, the 2002 Honda Civic, was being operated by the 65-year old female driver (case occupant) in the westbound left turn lane, approaching the intersection from the east. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by a 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle was noted to be equipped with frontal air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling south. Vehicle 2, 2011 Toyota RAV4 was traveling eastbound, approaching the intersection from the west. The driver of Vehicle 2, seeing the stopped traffic ahead, entered the south paved shoulder area. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to pass through the intersection in order to continue traveling east. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection and just prior to entering the south leg of the intersection, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 (front right corner area) struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 (angled engagement). At this time, Vehicle 1 appears to have rotated somewhat clockwise, while rotated clockwise. At this time, the left side plane of Vehicle 2 and the right side plane of Vehicle 1 made contact, resulting in sideswipe type damage to both vehicles. Vehicle 1 came to rest at the south leg of the intersection, near the northbound travel lane, facing south. Vehicle 2 came to rest, in close proximity to Vehicle 1, but facing a southeasterly direction. As a result of the first impact, the frontal air bags for Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 deployed. Post-Crash: The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver and three passengers of Vehicle 2 were also transported, by land unit, to a local hospital. The extent of their injuries and treatments, if any, are unknown. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.