Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 44-year old, female driver, of a 2010 Jeep Patriot utility vehicle, which was involved in a head-on collision (angled) with a 2003 Mercedes-Benz E320 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) of a spring weekday, at the intersection of an east/west roadway and a two-lane, north/south roadway. The bituminous east/west roadway consists of one westbound travel lane and one eastbound travel lane bordered on either side by paved shoulders. The roadway is straight, but graded, with a downhill grade for the westbound travel direction. The north/south roadway intersects the east/west roadway on the north side at an offset angle. The speed limit for the east/west roadway is 50 mph (80 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were reported to be dry. The overall environment is rural. Vehicle 1, the 2010 Jeep Patriot utility vehicle, was being operated by the 44-year old female driver (case occupant), in the westbound travel lane. She intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling west. The driver was utilizing a 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with retractor type pretensioner) and the vehicle was noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags and roof side rail curtains. Vehicle 2, the 2003 Mercedes-Benz E320 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound, approaching the intersection from the west. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling northbound. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2. As a result, Vehicle 2 was rotated counterclockwise and redirected westbound, coming to rest in the westbound travel lane, just west of the intersection, facing a westerly direction. Vehicle 1 was redirected to the northwest corner of the intersection where it came to rest, facing a northwesterly direction. As a result of the impact, the driver's seat belt pretensioner actuated and the advanced frontal air bag deployed for Vehicle 1. Post-Crash: Both drivers were removed from their respective vehicles by emergency medical services personnel and transported, by land unit, to a local hospital with incapacitating injuries, though it should be noted that the driver of Vehicle 1 tried to exit her vehicle under her own power. However, the driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was subsequently transferred to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.