Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 39-year old, male driver (case occupant), of a 2004 Ford F-150 pick-up truck, which was involved in a series of relatively minor impacts. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the mid afternoon hours (daylight), of a fall weekday, on a straight and level, two-lane, bituminous, east/west roadway. The overall environment is rural in nature. At time of the crash, the weather conditions were clear and the roadway surface was dry. The speed limit for the east/west roadway is 35 mph (56 km/h). Vehicle 1, a 2004 Ford F-150 pick-up truck, was being operated in the eastbound travel lane by the 39-year old male driver (case occupant). His belt restraint status could not be accurately determined (though he is suspected to have been utilizing a 3-point lap/shoulder belt); however, Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with frontal impact air bags and front buckle pretensioners. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling east along the east/west roadway. Crash: As Vehicle 1 traveled east, it approached an intersection. As Vehicle 1 traveled through the intersection, it departed the roadway at the southeast corner of the intersection where it struck a small utility junction box with its frontal plane (event 1) and sideswiped a utility pole with its left side plane (event 2). At this time, Vehicle 1 entered an open field and began a gradual right turn, heading in a southerly direction. Vehicle 1 continued on while turning right and eventually spun out/rotated clockwise before coming to a stop in the open field, facing an easterly direction. At this time, the driver of Vehicle 1 continued on, traveling east, through the open field and struck a small field drainage ditch with its frontal plane (lower bumper and undercarriage / event 3). Vehicle 1 continued traveling east where upon it entered a cemetery. Vehicle 1, while traveling east, struck two tombstones with its frontal plane (events 4 & 5) and another tombstone with its undercarriage before coming to rest, facing an easterly direction. As a result of the impact with the tombstones, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center and was hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash scene, but not due to damage.