Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 36-year old, female driver, of a 2006 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, which was involved in a severe, offset frontal impact. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the late evening hours (dark), of a winter weekday, on a straight, three-lane roadway (two eastbound lanes and one westbound lane). This roadway runs generally east and west and has an uphill grade for the westbound travel direction. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The speed limit for this roadway is 35 mph (56 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2006 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 36-year old female driver (case occupant), in the westbound travel lane. She intended to continue traveling westbound. She was utilizing her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with pretensioner) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, seat back mounted, side torso air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. Vehicle 2, a 2006 Chrysler 300 4-door sedan, was traveling east in the left, eastbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling eastbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 entered the eastbound travel lane heading west. As a result, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 in an offset manner. Both vehicles rotated counterclockwise and came to rest at or near the left, eastbound travel lane. As a result of this impact, the driver's seat belt pretensioner actuated and the frontal air bag, side torso air bag and both side rail curtains deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was able to self extricate herself, but was not able to stand due to her injuries. She was transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with moderate injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was also transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.