Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 64-year old male driver, of a 2010 Toyota RAV4 compact utility vehicle, which was involved in a near side collision (left plane) with the frontal plane of a 2005 Dodge Ram 1500 pick-up truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This multi-vehicle collision occurred during the mid-day hour (daylight) of a summer weekday, on an east/west trafficway, just west of an intersection (intersection plays no part in the crash). This trafficway is composed of two westbound lanes and four eastbound lanes, with a grass/shrub median separating the two travel directions. At the area of the crash (westbound travel direction), the roadway is curved (left turning), but straightens out just beyond the impact/rest area. Both roadways area relatively level and at the time of the crash the weather was reported to be clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. The speed limit for the trafficway (both directions) is 40 mph (64 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2010 Toyota RAV4 compact utility vehicle, was being operated by the 64-year old male case occupant in the right, westbound travel lane. Occupying the right front and right rear seating positions respectively were an 89-year old male passenger and an 89-year old female passenger. The driver of Vehicle 1 was utilizing his respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with retractor type pretensioner), though usage for the right front and right rear passengers could not be accurately determined. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, front (outboard) seat back mounted side impact air bags and side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 was traveling west, just behind Vehicle 4, and intended to continue traveling west. Vehicle 2, a 2005 Dodge Ram 1500 pick-up truck, was traveling east, in the eastbound roadway, approaching the intersection from the west. It is unknown as to the intent of the driver. Vehicle 3, a 2006 Toyota RAV4 compact utility vehicle, was traveling west, in the left westbound travel lane just ahead of Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 4. The driver of Vehicle 3 intended to continue traveling west. Vehicle 4, a 2008 Hyundai Entourage minivan was traveling west, in the right westbound lane, directly ahead of Vehicle 1 and slightly behind Vehicle 3. The driver of Vehicle 4 intended to continue traveling west. Crash: As Vehicle 2 approached the intersection from the west, there was a loss of control (preceding driver medical condition) and it departed the roadway to the left an entered the grass median. At this time, Vehicle 2 struck some small shrub(s) with its frontal plane (event 1) as it traversed the grass median. Vehicle 2 entered the westbound roadway where its frontal plane struck the left side plane of Vehicle 3 (event 2). Vehicle 3 was rotated or pushed into the left side plane of Vehicle 4 (event 3) as Vehicle 2 continued into the right westbound travel lane. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 (front left) struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 at an acute angle (event 4). Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise as it departed the north edge of the roadway, while Vehicle 2 was redirected to the north as it too departed the north edge of the westbound roadway. Vehicle 1 came to rest at the north roadside, facing south, while Vehicle 2 came to rest at the north roadside, facing north and in close proximity to Vehicle 1. It is believed that Vehicles 3 and 4 eventually came to a controlled stop west of the general impact area. As a result of its impact with Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed and the front seat belt pretensioners actuated. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant / 20 minute extrication) and the driver of Vehicle 2 were removed from their respective vehicles and transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was hospitalized with minor to severe injuries, while the driver of Vehicle 2 was hospitalized, but with unknown injuries/treatments. The two passengers of Vehicle 1 were transported, with non-incapacitating injuries, to a local hospital. The driver of Vehicle 3, the driver of Vehicle 4 and the passenger of Vehicle 4 were reported as not being transported. The extent of their injuries and treatments, if any, are unknown. Vehicles 1, 2 and 3 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. Vehicle 4 was driven from the scene by one of its occupants.