Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 53-year old, male driver, of a 2006 Chevrolet Malibu Maxx LT, which was primarily involved in a frontal impact with a pole. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight), of a late winter weekend, on a five-lane, bituminous, north/south roadway. This roadway consists of two southbound lanes, two northbound lanes and a center dedicated two-way, left turn lane. The roadway is straight, but has a negative downhill grade for the southbound travel direction. The roadway speed limit is 35 mph (56 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was reported to be dry. The overall environment is urban. Vehicle 1, the 2006 Chevrolet Malibu Maxx LT, was being operated by the 53-year old male driver (case occupant), in the left southbound travel lane. Occupying the right front seating position was a 13-year old male passenger. Both occupants of vehicle 1 were unbelted, but the vehicle is noted to be equipped with redesigned frontal air bags. Vehicle 2, is an unknown passenger automobile, which was traveling south, ahead of Vehicle 1, in the left southbound lane. Crash: As Vehicle 1 traveled south, the driver experienced a preceding medical condition. Vehicle 1 appears to have veered right toward the right roadside, but still impacted the back right corner of Vehicle 2 with its front left corner (event 1) before departing the right roadside edge. As Vehicle 1 departed the right roadside (some counterclockwise rotation likely present due to the first impact), it struck a utility pole with its frontal plane and came to rest facing a south-southwest direction. Vehicle 2 likely came to rest in the right southbound travel lane, but this cannot be confirmed. As a result of this crash, Vehicle 1's frontal impact air bags deployed (event 1). Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was found within his respective seating area and was removed from the vehicle by responding emergency medical services personnel. He was transported, by land, to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The right front 13-year old passenger of Vehicle 1 was also transported to a local hospital with incapacitating injuries and hospitalized. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. Vehicle 2's post crash status is unknown.