Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 41-year old, male driver, of a 2009 Mini Cooper 3-door Clubman, which was involved in a frontal impact with a 2007 Toyota Camry. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the evening hours (dark, street lights present), of a fall weekday, at the controlled intersection of an east/west trafficway and the access/exit ramps of a north/south trafficway (interchange area). The western leg of the intersection consists of three eastbound lanes separated from two westbound lanes by a raised grass covered island. The eastern leg of the intersection consists of three westbound lanes (two through lanes and a dedicated left turn lane) separated from three eastbound lanes by a raised concrete island. The southern leg of the intersection is the southbound access ramp lane (one way) to the north/south trafficway. The east/west trafficway is curved on both sides of the intersection (slight right handed curve for the eastbound travel direction) and has an uphill grade for the eastbound travel direction, leading into the intersection from the west. At time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. The speed limit for the east/west trafficway is 30 mph (48 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2009 Mini Cooper Clubman, was being operated by the 41-year old male driver (case occupant), in right eastbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the west. He intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling eastbound. He was utilizing his respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with buckle pretensioner) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, front outboard, torso/hip side bags and roof side rail curtains. Vehicle 2, a 2007 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was in the westbound left turn lane, approaching the intersection from the east. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to turn left at the intersection and take the southbound access ramp to the north/south trafficway. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time, with the front plane of Vehicle 1 (front left) striking the front right plane of Vehicle 2 (event 1). As a result of this impact, Vehicle 1 was redirected to the southeast corner of the intersection where it departed the roadway and came to rest after contacting the face of a guardrail (event 2 / very minor impact). Vehicle 2 is believed to have come to rest in the intersection, but at an unknown location and heading. As a result of the first and primary impact for Vehicle 1, the driver's buckle pretensioner actuated, his advanced frontal air bag, torso/hip side bag and the left side curtain deployed. Post-Crash: Both driver's were transported, by land unit, to a local hospital with reported non-incapacitating injuries, but the driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was later transferred to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be treated and released from the local hospital. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.