Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 51-year old, female driver, of a 2007 Kia Rio 4-door sedan, which was involved in a far side impact. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight), of a fall weekday, at the intersection of two roadways. These roadways form a "T-type" intersection (base leg moderately angled), with a north/south roadway intersecting an east/west roadway on the south side. The eastern leg of the intersection is composed of one westbound lane, one westbound left turn lane and two eastbound travel lanes. The western leg is composed of one westbound lane and two eastbound travel lanes. The southern leg is composed of one, southbound travel lane. Both the west and eastbound travel directions have downhill grades leading into the controlled intersection. At time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The speed limit for the east/west roadway is 50 mph (80 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2007 Kia Rio 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 51-year old female driver (case occupant), in the westbound left turn lane, approaching the intersection from the east. She intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling southbound. She was utilizing her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with pretensioner) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, front outboard side torso air bags and roof side rail curtains. Vehicle 2, a 2008 Ford Edge, was traveling eastbound, in the far left eastbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the west. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling eastbound. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1). It is suspected that Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise out of the impact and came to rest at a nearby traffic island at the southeast corner of the intersection, while Vehicle 2 is suspected to have come to rest at or near the same traffic island, but further east. As a result of this crash, the driver's frontal air bag, side torso air bag and both side rail curtains deployed for Vehicle 1. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle and transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to have sustained non-incapacitating injuries and was transported to a local hospital. Both Vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.