This 72-year old male case occupant was the driver of a 2006 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, which was involved in a severe, 12 o'clock frontal impact with the back plane of a 2005 Ford Freestar minivan. The case occupant was not restrained by an available 3-point lap/shoulder belt, but the vehicle's frontal impact air bag deployed as a result of the impact. The case occupant was sitting slightly reclined in a bucket seat, which was found adjusted to the rear seat track position. At the time of the crash, the case occupant was 72 in (183 cm) in height and weighed 265 lbs (120 kg). During the impact, the case occupant was projected directly forward, in reference to the vehicle. He loaded through the deployed frontal air bag with his chest and deformed the steering wheel rim as he compressed the column. His lower extremities moved forward as well with both his knees striking the knee bolster and deforming/pocketing the same. Based upon brake pad displacement, his right foot may have struck the brake pedal, but without any corresponding injury. At this time, due to that he was not belted, the case occupant's upper torso/head continued to move forward as he was projected upward. The case occupant struck and cracked the upper portions of the windshield glazing with his head, with noted deposits of hair. The case occupant came to rest within his respective seating area, but his post crash posture is unknown at this time. The case occupant's injuries include: a descending aorta transaction, bilateral rib fractures (R4-7, L3-9 - anterolateral), a T7 vertebral body fracture and upper chest contusions, all the result of certain loading, through the air bag, of the steering wheel hub/rim. However, a left adrenal gland contusion and a right hip contusion were both attributed to the steering wheel rim directly (certain for the former, possible for the latter). A fracture of the left femur, the right acetabulum and right pelvic ring were the certain result of the case occupant's knees loading the knee bolster panel, as were bilateral knee contusions. The case occupant also sustained bilateral upper arm contusions and bilateral forearm contusion as a result of possible contact with the instrument panel. The maximum Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS) for this case occupant was AIS 5.