Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 83-year old, female driver (case occupant), of a 2004 Ford Focus 4-door sedan, which was involved in a moderate frontal impact with a utility pole. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight), of a fall weekday, on a four-lane, east/west, bituminous roadway, at the area of a four-leg intersection, though the intersection itself did not play a part in the crash. This east/west roadway has two eastbound lanes and two west bound lanes. For the eastbound travel direction, the roadway has an uphill grade and a slight left curve leading into a straight section of roadway at the intersection area. The overall environment is urban in nature. At time of the crash, the weather conditions were clear and the roadway surface was dry. The speed limit for the east/west roadway is 35 mph (56 km/h). Vehicle 1, a 2004 Ford Focus 4-door sedan, was being operated in the right, eastbound travel lane, by the 83-year old female driver (case occupant). She was utilizing a 3-point, lap/shoulder belt (with retractor type pretensioner) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with second generation frontal air bags only. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling eastbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 traveled east, approaching the intersection from the west, it drifted left and crossed into the westbound travel lanes. Vehicle 1 entered the intersection while drifting left and departed the north edge of the roadway at the northeast corner of the intersection. At this time, Vehicle 1's frontal plane struck a utility pole (30 cm in diameter) with its frontal plane (event 1). After impact, Vehicle 1 rolled backwards while turning to the left, and jumped a curbed median at the northern leg of the intersection. At this time, Vehicle 1 struck a metal utility pole (14 cm in diameter) with its right side plane (event 2) and an unknown pole or post with its back right corner (event 3), before coming to rest at the curbed median, facing a southeasterly travel direction. As a result of the first impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed and the seat belt pretensioners actuated. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle and transported, by land unit, to a local hospital and hospitalized, but was transferred 3 days later to a local trauma center for further hospitalization as a result of minor to serious injuries sustained in the crash. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash scene due to damage.