Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 26-year old, male driver of a 2006 Cadillac CTS-V 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a rollover event. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the post mid-day hours (daylight) of a summer weekday, on a three lane, eastbound roadway, within the area of an interchange (unknown if related). This roadway forms the eastbound travel direction of an east/west trafficway. At the area of the crash, there are three eastbound travel lanes and a right deceleration lane leading to an off-ramp to access an overhead, northbound roadway. At this interchange deceleration lane/off-ramp, the eastbound roadway starts to curve to the left, but is relatively level. The off-ramp itself, however, has an uphill grade and curves to the right and away from the eastbound roadway. The speed limit for the eastbound roadway is 65 mph (105 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were reported to be dry. Vehicle 1, the 2006 Cadillac CTS-V 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 26-year old male driver (case occupant). He was utilizing his respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, front seat back mounted, side impact torso air bags and side rail curtains. At the time of the crash, Vehicle 1 was traveling east in the far left eastbound travel lane. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 experienced a loss of control and departed the south side of the roadway at the gore area for the interchange off-ramp. As Vehicle 1 traversed the gore area and the off-ramp lane, the driver of Vehicle 1 appears to have initiated a left steering maneuver (based upon tire scuff/yaw marks) just prior to entering the adjacent paved shoulder area (south side). Vehicle 1 started to travel sideways, with its right side plane leading, as the right rear wheel/tire entered the grassy roadside and the right front rim gouged the surface pavement. At this time, Vehicle rolled right about its longitudinal axis. Vehicle 1 rolled, approximately 10 quarter turns or more along the south roadside edge of the off-ramp lane, during which time it struck and sheared a street light lamp pole with an unknown plane. Vehicle 1 eventually struck and uprooted a small tree/shrub (unknown plane) before coming to rest, on its roof, off the south roadside edge of the off-ramp lane, some seventy meters from its initial trip point. As a result this rollover crash, the driver's side impact torso air bag deployed as did the left side rail curtain. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was removed from the vehicle by responding emergency medical services personnel (EMS) and transported, by air, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.