Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 28-year old, right front male passenger, of a 2007 Nissan Frontier pick-up truck, who was involved in a frontal collision with the far side of an embankment. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the late night hours (dark) of a spring weekend, at the intersection of a two lane, north/south roadway and a two lane, east/west roadway (both roadways have one travel lane for each travel direction. The north/south roadway is level, has a slight right turning curve as it leads into the intersection, and intersects the east/west roadway on the south side, forming a "T-type" intersection. The east/west roadway is level and straight. The speed limit for the north/south roadway is 35 mph (56 km/h), while the east/west roadway has speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were reported to be dry. The overall environment is rural. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Nissan Frontier pick-up truck, was being operated by an unknown male driver (unbelted). Occupying the right front seating position was the 28-year old right front passenger (case occupant). The case occupant was utilizing a 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with retractor type pretensioner) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags only. It is unknown as to whether the driver intended to turn left or right at the intersection. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 continued traveling straight (north) as it entered the T-type intersection and departed the north side of the east/west roadway (end departure type travel path). Vehicle 1 traversed a large drainage ditch/culvert before impacting the far side embankment with its frontal plane/undercarriage. Vehicle 1 continued on a short distance before coming to stop in an area of small trees and brush. As a result the embankment impact, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed and its front seat belt pretensioners actuated. Post-Crash: Both the driver and passenger of Vehicle 1 exited the vehicle under their own power. The driver left the scene by unknown means and the right front passenger (case occupant) was picked up by a relative and transported to a local hospital. He was subsequently transferred to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.