Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 22-year old, female driver, of a 2009 Nissan Versa 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a frontal collision with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the late night hours (dark) of a spring weekday, on a secluded residential roadway. This bituminous roadway runs generally north and south with one travel lane for each travel direction with no separating divider line(s). The northern end of the roadway terminates at a residential parking area, while the southern end of the roadway eventually intersects another, secondary roadway. Heading south out of the residential parking area, the roadway (southbound direction) has a downhill grade with a slight left turning curve. The speed limit is 25 mph (40 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2009 Nissan Versa 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 22-year old female driver (case occupant), in the residential parking area. She was in the process of exiting the parking area and traveling southbound on the north/south residential roadway. The driver is suspected of utilizing a 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with retractor type pretensioner) and the vehicle was noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, front seat back mounted side torso air bags and roof side rail curtains. Crash: As Vehicle 1 exited the parking area and traveled south, it departed the right side of the roadway, where it struck a large tree with its right front plane (right front wheel/axle engagement). As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1 rotated somewhat clockwise as it disengaged from the tree. Vehicle 1 continued on and eventually struck another large tree with its frontal plane (front left) at slight left side leading angle/yaw. Vehicle 1 rotated somewhat clockwise as it rebounded off this tree and came to rest with its front tires at the west roadside edge and its rear tires in the roadway itself, facing a southwesterly direction. As a result of the first impact (suspected), the driver's seat belt pretensioner actuated, the frontal air bag, the right side curtain and the right front torso side air bag deployed. As a result of the second impact, it is believed that the left side rail curtain and the driver's torso side air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was found slumped over the first row seating area, with her head at the right front seat cushion. She was removed from the vehicle prior to emergency medical services arrival; however, she was eventually transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.