This 57-year old male case occupant was the driver of a 2004 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a moderate 09 o'clock near side impact (left side) with the frontal plane of a 2006 Isuzu NQR medium truck. The case occupant was noted to be restrained by a 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with no buckle pretensioner actuation). Also, there were no air bag deployments for this vehicle/crash; though the vehicle was equipped with 2nd generation (redesigned) frontal air bags. His bucket seat was found, at inspection, adjusted to the rear seat track position, while the seat backrest was reclined to a mid-range position (possible movement post crash, but unconfirmed at this time). At the time of the crash, the case occupant was 72 in (183 cm) in height and weighed 300 lbs (136 kg). During the impact, the case occupant was projected mostly left, in reference to the vehicle. He likely made contact with the rear quadrants of his door panel and/or portions of the left B-pillar with his chest/left flank and abdomen. B-pillar contact for the left shoulder/back area and head are suspected as well, based upon injury locations and kinematics. Based upon injuries and the lateral displacement of the case occupant due to direct loading of the door, he is suspected of being pushed into the belt webbing/buckle housing and/or the center console, contacting the same with his right flank. The case occupant came to rest within his seating area, where he was found by the responding emergency medical services personnel (EMS). The case occupant's injuries include: a left lung contusion and bilateral pnuemothoraces were the probable result of rear upper door panel contact or possibly contact with the B-pillar. Bilateral rib fractures (L1-8, R5-6), a sternum fracture (manubrium), a left splenic artery laceration and a pancreas laceration were the certain result of contact loading of the door panel, while a posterior scalp abrasion and a left scapula fracture were the probable result of contact with the left B-pillar. The case occupant also sustained a right diaphragm hematoma which was possibly due to contact with the seat belt webbing/buckle housing and/or the center console. A right adrenal gland hematoma was the result of an unknown contact source. It should be noted that the case occupant expired 15 days post crash due to complications. The maximum Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS) for this case occupant was AIS 4.