Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 22-year old, male driver and a 25-year old, right front male passenger, both of a 2010 Chevrolet Camaro, which was involved in a left side impact with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight), of a late winter weekday, on a two-lane, east/west bituminous roadway. At the crash area, the roadway has a long left turning curve which transitions into a right turning curve ("S-type"), for the eastbound travel direction. The speed limit is 35 mph (56 km/h). The overall environment is rural, with trees/woods bordering either side of the roadway. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2010 Chevrolet Camaro, was being operated by the 22-year old male driver (case occupant), in the eastbound travel lane. He was negotiating the left-turning curved section of the roadway and intended to continue traveling east. Occupying the right front seating position was a 25-year old male passenger (case occupant). Both the driver and passenger were not belted, but the vehicle was noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, front outboard side impact hip/torso air bags and roof side rail curtains. Crash: For unknown reasons, while negotiating the left-turning curve, Vehicle 1 traveled across the westbound travel lane and its left side wheels departed the north edge of the roadway. Vehicle 1 continued along the north roadside edge (negatively graded embankment present) straddling the same. At this time, the driver of Vehicle 1 may have tried to steer right to regain the roadway, but was unsuccessful as the embankment and right steering maneuver likely contributed to Vehicle 1 entering a slight left side leading yaw. Vehicle 1 subsequently struck a large tree with its left side plane and came to rest, at the point of impact, facing a southeasterly direction. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed, as did the driver's side hip/torso air bag and the side rail curtains. Post-Crash: Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were removed from the vehicle by responding emergency medical personnel (EMS) and transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.