Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 21-year old, female driver, of a 2006 Pontiac G6 4-door sedan, which was involved in a far side impact with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight), of a spring weekday, on a two-lane, bituminous, north/south roadway. This roadway is level, but curves to the left for the northbound travel direction and has a speed limit of 30 mph (48 km/h). The overall environment is rural, with either side of the roadway heavily wooded. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2006 Pontiac G6 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 21-year old female driver (case occupant), in the northbound travel lane. She was negotiating the left turning curve and intended to continue traveling north. She was not utilizing an available 3-point lap/shoulder belt, but the vehicle was noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags. Crash: For unknown reasons, the right side wheels of Vehicle 1 departed the right edge of the roadway and the driver initiated a left steering maneuver, but over-steered. Vehicle 1 entered a right side leading yaw. Vehicle 1 crossed through the southbound travel lane and departed the west edge of the roadway. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck a small tree (yielding / event 1) before striking a larger tree with its right front plane (event 2). Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise off the second tree and re-entered the roadway where it came to rest, slightly north of the impact area, facing a southerly direction. As a result of the second tree impact, the driver's frontal impact air bag deployed for Vehicle 1. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was removed from the vehicle by responding police personnel. She was subsequently transported, by land/air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to critical injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.