Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 55-year-old, male driver, of a 2008 Ford Mustang coupe, involved in a far side impact, with the frontal plane of a 2001 Chevrolet Cavalier 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) of a summer weekday, on a curved, two-lane section of roadway (transition area from a two-lane roadway to a divided trafficway). This roadway runs generally north and south and has a positive graded, right-handed curve for the northbound travel direction. The speed limit for this roadway is reportedly 55 mph (89 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2008 Ford Mustang 2-door coupe, was being operated by the 55-year-old male driver, in the northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by a 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with pretensioner). Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 was in the process of negotiating the graded and curved section of the roadway. Vehicle 2, a 2001 Chevrolet Cavalier 4-door sedan was being operated by a 51-year-old female driver, in the southbound travel lanes (three lanes transitioning to one), approaching the crash area from the north. Occupying the right front seating position was a 58-year-old, right front passenger. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to negotiate the curved section of roadway and continue traveling south. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 experienced a control loss and entered the southbound travel lane while in a right side leading yaw/slide. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the right front half of Vehicle 1. Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise out of the impact and struck Vehicle 2's left side plane with its right side plane (right rear corner / minor impact) before coming to rest, north of the impact area, in the southbound travel lane, facing a northwesterly direction. Vehicle 2 was pushed backwards a short distance and off the western edge of the roadway, where it came to rest, facing a southeasterly direction. As a result of the crash, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle by responding emergency medical services personnel (EMS) and transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was also transported, by air unit, to the local trauma center and hospitalized with incapacitating injuries. The right front passenger of Vehicle 2 was transported to a local hospital, but expired prior to admission. Both involved vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.