Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 21-year-old, right front, male passenger, of a 2009 Volkswagen Jetta 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a moderate frontal impact with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the early morning hours (dark) of a summer weekday, on a curved, two-lane, rural roadway. This roadway runs generally north and south and has a negatively graded right turning curve for the northbound travel direction. The speed limit for this roadway is reportedly 40 mph (64 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2009 Volkswagen Jetta 4-door sedan, was being operated by a 20-year-old male driver, in the northbound travel lane. Occupying the right front seating position was the 21-year-old male passenger (case occupant). Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point, lap/shoulder belts (with pretensioners). Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted, hip/torso side air bags and side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 was in the process of negotiating the graded and curved section of the roadway. Crash: As Vehicle 1 negotiated the right turning curve, the driver became aware of a deer entering the roadway and steered left and then right to avoid departing the left side of the roadway. The collision with the deer was avoided, but the driver was unable to regain the roadway/control. Vehicle 1 departed the left side of the roadway while in a slight left-side leading yaw. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck a wooden post and beam fence (debris from the fence penetrated through the front windshield area and into the passenger compartment, as well as contacted the right side plane at various locations) before striking a tree with its left side plane. Vehicle 1 continued on a short distance and struck another small tree with its frontal plane. At this time, Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise off the tree and continued in a northerly direction as it crossed and departed the roadway to the right, where it came to rest. As a result of the crash, Vehicle 1's frontal, side hip/torso and side rail curtains deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was uninjured, but the right front passenger was transported, by a responding emergency medical service unit (land unit), to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.