Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 22-year-old, male driver of a 2011 Kia Optima 4-door sedan, which was involved in a frontal collision with the termination end of a guardrail (frontal, narrow corner impact with penetration into vehicle interior). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight), of a fall weekday, in the eastbound roadway of an east/west trafficway, near a bridge area. The eastbound roadway, as one travels east across the bridge area, consists of two travel lanes, which expands to four lanes (dedicated left and right turn lanes) beyond the bridge area. A curbed median with guardrails and shrubbery separate the eastbound roadway from the westbound roadway. The roadway is relatively level and has a speed limit of 55 mph (89 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2011 Kia Optima 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 22-year-old male driver (case occupant). For unknown reason (possible issue of driver fatigue), Vehicle 1 had entered the eastbound roadway, traveling westbound. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted, side air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. Crash: As Vehicle 1 traveled westbound in the eastbound travel lanes, it drifted to the right and departed the north side of the roadway (median side). Vehicle 1 subsequently struck the termination end of a guardrail, with its frontal plane (event 1), just prior to the bridge area. The guardrail penetrated the passenger compartment interior at or near the driver's toe pan area. The impact itself caused Vehicle 1 to rotate counterclockwise and end-swipe a separate, vertical guardrail post with its back plane and re-contact the initial guardrail (back side) with its frontal plane (front right corner area) as it came to rest, in the median, facing a southerly direction. As a result of the impact with the guardrail, the driver's frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 1 was transported, by air unit, to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred, later that day, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.