Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 70-year-old, male driver, of a 2013 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan which was involved in a frontal collision with a tree, with a subsequent one-quarter turn rollover. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours, of fall weekday, on a straight and graded two-lane roadway. This roadway runs generally north and south and has an uphill grade for the northbound travel direction. The roadway has a speed limit of 40 mph (64 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2013 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 70-year-old male driver (case occupant), in the northbound travel lane. He was restrained by his respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted, side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 had just negotiated a curved section of roadway and was traveling straight, proceeding uphill in the northbound direction. He intended to continue traveling northbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 proceeded northbound, it drifted left, crossed over the southbound travel lane and departed the west side of the roadway. Vehicle 1 started to climb an embankment, but subsequently struck a tree (multiple trunks - bifurcated) with its front left plane (event 1). Vehicle 1 rotated/pivoted counterclockwise about the tree and overturned one-quarter turn (event 2), coming to rest on its passenger side, in the southbound travel lane. As a result of the impact with the tree, the driver's frontal air bag deployed for Vehicle 1. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was able to unbuckle himself and move within the interior of the vehicle. He was extricated from the vehicle, through the windshield glazing, which had been cut open by responding fire/rescue and emergency medical services personnel. The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported from the scene, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was transferred early the following day to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.