Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 75-year-old, male driver and a 68-year-old, right front female passenger, both of a 2011 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, which was involved in a frontal collision with the right side plane of a 2003 GMC Envoy utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the post mid-night hour (dark), of a summer weekend day, at the intersection of an east/west roadway and a north/south roadway. Both roadways are straight and level with the east/west roadway having a speed limit of 55 mph (89 km/h) and the north/south roadway having a speed limit of 35 mph (56 km/h). At the intersection, the east/west roadway is composed of four travel lanes: one through lane for each travel direction and their associated acceleration/deceleration lanes for vehicles turning at the intersection. The north/south roadway is composed of two travel lanes, one for each travel direction. The east/west roadway has no traffic controls while the north/south roadway has posted stop signs. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2011 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 75-year-old male driver (case occupant 1), in the westbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the east. Occupying the right front seating positions was the 68-year-old female passenger (case occupant 2). Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were utilizing their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts. The vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, a driver's knee bolster air bag, seat back mounted, side impact air bags (front, outboard) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling westbound. Vehicle 2, a 2003 GMC Envoy utility vehicle, was traveling northbound, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling north. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time, however; the driver of Vehicle 1, having seen the approach of Vehicle 2, attempted to brake in order to avoid a collision. This avoidance maneuver was unsuccessful and the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 2 in a "T-bone" type impact pattern. Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise out of the impact and came to rest just north of the northwest corner of the intersection, off the west edge of the roadway, facing a southerly direction. Vehicle 2 is believed to have rotated out of the impact in a clockwise manner as it departed the intersection at the northwest corner. Vehicle 2 came to rest, off road, in a field, facing a northwesterly direction. As a result of this impact, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed, as did the driver's knee bolster air bag. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant 1) was extricated from the vehicle and transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The right front female passenger of Vehicle 1 (case occupant 2) expired at the scene. The driver and two passengers of Vehicle 2 were transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center. The extent of their injuries and treatments, if any, are unknown. Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.