Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 23-year old female driver, of a 2006 Ford Freestyle, who was primarily involved in an offset frontal collision with a bridge/overpass wall. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred in the post midnight hours (dark, street lights present) of an early spring weekday, on a curved, two-lane, southbound roadway. This roadway forms the south travel direction of a north/south trafficway. At the area of the crash, there is an acceleration lane (interchange area), which did not play a part in the crash; however, a bridge/overpass structure for the interchange area was involved. The southbound roadway has a negative downhill grade as it curves from left to right and then back, right to left, with a short straight section of roadway in between ("S" type curve pattern). The roadway has a speed limit of 35 mph (56 km/h), and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the bituminous roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2006 Ford Freestyle compact utility vehicle, was being operated by the 23-year old female driver (case occupant) in the left, southbound travel lane. Occupying the right front and left rear seating positions were a 20 year old male and a 19 year old male respectively. The driver of Vehicle 1 was noted to be utilizing her 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner). The right front male passenger and the left rear passenger were unbelted. The vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the curved sections of roadway and continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, an unknown passenger vehicle, was also traveling southbound, behind Vehicle 1. Crash: For unknown reasons, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the back plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1). Vehicle 1 experienced a loss of control and struck the median curb with its left rear wheel/tire (event 2) before crossing the right southbound travel lane and departing the roadway to the right. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck a wall (retaining wall located just before the bridge/overpass structure), at the right roadside (event 3). Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise and came to rest in the right southbound travel lane. Vehicle 2 did not stop and proceeded to leave the crash scene in a southerly direction (hit & run). Due to the impact with the wall (event 3), the frontal air bags for Vehicle 1 deployed. Post-Crash: All three occupants of Vehicle 1 were able to self extricate themselves. All three were eventually transported, by land unit, to a local hospital center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries, while the two passengers of Vehicle 1 were treated and released. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.