Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 44-year old, male driver, of a 2006 Toyota 4-Runner compact utility vehicle, who involved in a frontal impact with a 2010 Mercedes-Benz C300 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight), of a winter weekday, at the intersection of an east/west roadway and a north/south roadway. The western leg of the intersection consists of two westbound lanes and two eastbound lanes, one of which is a dedicated left turn lane. The eastern leg of the intersection consists of three westbound through lanes, one of which is a dedicated left turn lane, and one eastbound lane. The southern leg of the intersection consists on one southbound lane and two northbound lanes, one of which is dedicated left turn lane. The northern leg of the intersection did not play a part in the crash. The intersection is controlled by overhead, standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals. The eastbound roadway is straight and level with a speed limit of 45 mph (72 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2006 Toyota 4-Runner compact utility vehicle, was being operated by the 44-year old male driver (case occupant), in the left westbound travel lane (dedicated left turn lane), at the eastern leg of the intersection. The driver of Vehicle 1 was unbelted, but the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags only. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling south. Vehicle 2, a 2010 Mercedes-Benz C300 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound, in the right eastbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the west. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling east. Crash: Vehicle 1 turned left at or just before the intersection as Vehicle 2 entered/passed through the intersection. As a result, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle1 (event 1). At this time, Vehicle 1 was pushed backwards while turning and Vehicle 2's frontal plane struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 2). Both vehicles came to rest, east of the intersection with Vehicle 1 at the left eastbound travel lane, facing a westerly direction, while Vehicle 2 came to rest, in the eastbound travel lanes, next to Vehicle 1, facing an easterly direction. Due to the first impact with Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: Both drivers were removed from their respective vehicles and transported, by air units, to a local trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was hospitalized with minor to serious injuries, while the driver of Vehicle 2 was hospitalized with non-incapacitating injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.