Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 44-year old, female driver, of a 2008 GMC Sierra 2500HD pick-up truck, which was primarily involved in a far side collision (right side plane) with the frontal plane of a 2004 Subaru Legacy 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the early night hours (dark, street lights present) of a winter weekday, at the intersection/crossover area of a north/south trafficway and east/west, two lane roadway. The northbound travel direction, leading into the intersection/crossover area, is composed of four lanes (two through lanes, one left turn lane and one right turn lane). The southbound travel direction, leading into the intersection, is also composed of four travel lanes and with the same configuration as the northbound direction. Both the north and south roadways are relatively level and straight with a posted speed limit of 55 mph (89 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were reported to be dry. Vehicle 1, the 2008 GMC Sierra 2500 HD pick-up truck, was being operated by the 44-year old female driver (case occupant) and sole occupant, in the far left, northbound lane (left turn lane). The case occupant intended to turn left at the intersection/crossover area and continue traveling west. The case occupant was noted to be utilizing her 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle was equipped with advanced frontal air bags. Vehicle 2, a 2004 Subaru Legacy 4-door sedan, was traveling in the right southbound through lane, approaching the intersection/crossover area from the north. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling south. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 1. As a result, Vehicle 1 was redirected to the southwest corner of the intersection where it struck a guardrail with its frontal plane (front left) before coming to rest at the southwest corner of the intersection. Vehicle 2 is believed to come to rest within the confines of the intersection somewhere near the southwest corner. Post-Crash: Both drivers were removed from their respective vehicles and transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center. The drive of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was hospitalized with minor to severe injuries, while the driver of Vehicle 2 also hospitalized, but with unknown injury extents. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.