Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 23-year old, male right front passenger, of a 2007 Chevrolet Impala, which was involved in a head-on collision (offset) with a 2003 Volkswagen GTI. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred in the post midnight hours (dark) of a fall weekend, on a slightly curved, two-lane, roadway. This east/west roadway has an uphill grade and curves to the left for the the westbound travel direction. The speed limit is 50 mph (80 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Chevrolet Impala 4-door sedan, was being operated by a 23-year old male driver in the westbound travel lane. Occupying the right front seating position was the 23-year old male case occupant. Occupying the left rear and right rear seating positions were a 23-year old female passenger and a 24-year old female passenger respectively. Both the driver and left rear passenger were utilizing their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts, while the right front passenger and the right rear passenger were unbelted. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags and side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 was negotiating the graded, left turning curve and intended to continue traveling westbound. Vehicle 2, a 2003 Volkswagen GTI 2-door hatchback, was traveling eastbound. The driver was in the process of negotiating the graded, right turning curve. Crash: While negotiating the curve, Vehicle 2 drifted into the westbound travel lane, traveling east. The driver of Vehicle 1, seeing the approach of Vehicle 2 steered to the left and started to brake. Based upon damage and final rest positions, it appears that the driver of Vehicle 2 tried to steer back to the right. Both avoidance maneuvers by the drivers were unsuccessful and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 (offset) in the eastbound travel lane. As a result, Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise as it departed the southside of the roadway. Vehicle 1 came to rest off the south edge of the roadway, facing a northwesterly direction. Vehicle 2 spun clockwise and came to rest at or near the impact area, facing a northwesterly direction. Due to the impact, Vehicle 1’s frontal air bags deployed. Post-Crash: All four occupants of Vehicle 1 were removed from the vehicle and transported for treatment. The right front passenger (case occupant) was transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The other three occupants of Vehicle 1 were treated and released. The driver of Vehicle 2 was also transported with reported non-incapacitating injuries. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.