Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 26-year-old, female driver, of a 2006 Lexus IS 250 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a near side impact, by the frontal plane of a 2007 Honda CR-V. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This three-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight) of a spring weekday, at the intersection of an east/west trafficway and a north/south trafficway. The eastern leg of the intersection consists of three westbound travel lanes, separated from two eastbound lanes by a grass covered median. The southern leg of the intersection consists of five northbound lanes (three through and two left turn lanes) separated from three southbound lanes by a grass covered median. The northern and western legs of the intersection did not play a part in the crash. Access into and through the intersection is controlled by overhead, standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals. The northbound travel direction, approaching the intersection from the south is straight, has an uphill grade and a speed limit of 45 mph (72 km/h), while the westbound travel direction, approaching the intersection from the east, is curved to the right with a negative downhill grade, with a speed limit of 30 mph (48 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2006 Lexus IS 250 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 26-year-old female driver, at the eastern leg of the intersection. The driver of Vehicle 1 was not belted, but the vehicle is noted to be equipped with redesigned frontal air bags, front seat-back mounted, hip/torso side air bags and left and right side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 was stopped at the intersection in the left westbound turn lane. The driver intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling south. Vehicle 2, a 2007 Honda CR-V, was traveling northbound, in the right northbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to stop at the intersection before continuing northbound. Vehicle 3, an Acura TSX (unknown model) year, was stopped at the eastern leg of the intersection, in the center westbound lane, next to Vehicle 1. The driver of Vehicle 3 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling southbound. Crash: All three vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1). As a result, Vehicle 1 was pushed northbound and into the path of Vehicle 3. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 3 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 2). As Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 came to rest, the right side plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 3). All three vehicles are believed to have come to rest within the intersection, near the northern and western legs. As a result of the initial impact with Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1's left side curtain and driver's side hip/torso air bag deployed. As a result of the second impact with Vehicle 3, Vehicle 1's right side curtain and right front side hip/torso air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with moderate to severe injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was also transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center, but was treated and released. It is not known if the driver of Vehicle 3 was injured or treated. All three vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.