Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 27-year old male driver, of a 2007 Toyota Scion tc, who was involved in a rear-end collision with a 2001 Ford Windstar. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred in the late morning hours (daylight) of fall weekday, on a straight, two-lane, bridge structure (one way travel direction). This roadway (bridge) is the eastbound span of an east/west trafficway. This eastbound roadway normally consists of two travel lanes, but the right eastbound lane was closed-off for bridge repair/construction. Bordering the north and south roadway edges were concrete barrier walls. At the area of the crash, the roadway has slight uphill grade, with a posted speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Toyota Scion tc 2-door hatchback, was being operated by the 27-year old male driver (case occupant), in the left eastbound lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was noted to be utilizing his 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags and a driver’s knee bolster air bag. Vehicle 2, a 2001 Ford Windstar minivan, was traveling in the left eastbound lane, directly ahead of Vehicle 1. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling eastbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 entered the closed, right eastbound lane, but the driver of Vehicle 1 subsequently steered back to the left, and in so doing, departed the left side of the roadway. At this time, the left front and left rear wheels/tires struck the concrete barrier wall (events 1 and 2 / minor scraping to wheels/rims). Vehicle 1 disengaged from the wall, but continued on and subsequently struck the rear plane of Vehicle 2 with its frontal plane (event 3). Both vehicles eventually came to rest on the bridge structure, probably facing an easterly direction. Due to its impact with Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1’s driver’s frontal air bag and knee bolster air bag deployed (retractor pretensioner actuated). Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was subsequently transported by the responding emergency medical services, by land unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver and the right front passenger of Vehicle 2 were reported to be uninjured; however, the two rear passengers of Vehicle 2 were reported to be possibly injured and were transported to a local hospital. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.