Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 40-year old, male driver, of a 2008 Hyundai Sonata, who was primarily involved in a frontal impact with a guardrail. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred in the early evening hours (dark, street lights present) of winter weekday, on curved, six-lane east/west roadway. The roadway consists of two westbound lanes, three eastbound lanes and a dedicated, two-way, left turn lane. The roadway curves to the left and has a negative grade for the westbound travel direction. At the area of the crash there is an intersecting roadway which intersects the east/west roadway on the north side; however, the intersection did not play a part in the crash. The east/west roadway has a posted speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2008 Hyundai Sonata 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 40-year old male driver (case occupant), in the right, westbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was noted to be utilizing his 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with buckle type pretensioner) and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, front, seat back mounted side torso air bags and side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the graded, left turning curve and continue traveling west. Vehicle 2, a 2004 Honda Pilot utility vehicle, was traveling westbound, in the right westbound travel lane, directly ahead of Vehicle 1. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling westbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 negotiated the left turning curve, it drifted off the right side of the roadway, just east of the intersection area. At this time, Vehicle 1's right side plane sideswiped a guardrail as it traveled west (event 1). Vehicle 1 continued on and subsequently struck the back right corner area of Vehicle 2 with its front left (event 2). Vehicle 1 continued past the intersection while still departing the right side of the roadway (roadway curving away to the left) and eventually struck a guardrail end/face with its frontal plane (event 3). Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise out of the impact and came to rest at the north road side, facing a south/southeasterly direction. As a result of the impact with the guardrail (event 3), Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag, driver's side torso air bag and left side rail curtain deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle by responding emergency medical services personnel (EMS) and subsequently transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. Vehicle 2 was driven away from the scene by its driver (uninjured).