Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 30-year old, female driver, of a 2011 Chevrolet Equinox compact utility vehicle, which was involved in a frontal collision with a 2011 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours (daylight) of a late summer weekday, at the intersection of a four-lane, north/south roadway and a two lane east/west roadway. The east/west roadway intersects the north/south roadway on the west side, forming a "T-type" intersection. The north/south roadway consists to two northbound lanes and two southbound lanes, is straight, but does have an uphill grade for the southbound travel direction, leading into the intersection. The east/west roadway also has an uphill grade leading into the intersection (eastbound travel direction). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. The north/south roadway has a speed limit of 40 mph (64 km/h), while the east/west roadway has a speed limit of 25 mph (40 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2011 Chevrolet Equinox compact utility vehicle, was being operated by the 30-year old female driver (case occupant) in the left, southbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the north. Occupying the right rear seating position was a 1-year old male passenger (child seat used, unknown type/details). The driver of Vehicle 1 was noted to be utilizing her respective 3-point, lap/shoulder belt restraint (with retractor type pretensioner). Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, roof side rail curtains and seat back mounted, side air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 2011 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan was stopped at the intersection, in the eastbound lane, facing east. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling north. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time. Based upon vehicle data, it is believed that the driver of Vehicle 1 tried to brake, but was unsuccessful in avoiding a collision. The frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2, in the intersection, at or near the left southbound travel lane. As a result, Vehicle was redirected to the left and came to rest within the intersection, facing a slight southwesterly direction. Vehicle 2 is suspected to have spun clockwise an unknown amount and come to rest within the intersection as well. Due to the impact, Vehicle 1's frontal air bag (driver) and side rail curtains deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle by responding emergency medical services personnel and transported, by land unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized (24 hour admit) with minor to moderate injuries. She was subsequently transferred the following day to a regional trauma center for specialized care. She was hospitalized an additional three days (4 days total). The right rear child occupant of Vehicle 1 and the driver of Vehicle 2 were both reported to be uninjured. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.