Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 22-year-old, female driver, of a 2007 Dodge Caliber 4-door hatchback, which was primarily involved in a near-side impact, by the frontal plane of a 2000 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the post mid-night hours (dark, street lights present), of a late spring weekday, at an intersection of a southbound roadway and an eastbound roadway. The eastbound roadway is straight, with an uphill grade and consists of three travel lanes. The southbound roadway is straight, with a slight downhill grade (hillcrest area) and consists of four travel lanes (curb side parking allowed). These two urban roadways form an urban intersection which is controlled by standard, overhead, tri-colored electric traffic signals. Both roadways have a reported speed limit of 25 mph (40 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Dodge Caliber 4-door hatchback, was being operated by the 22-year-old female driver (case occupant), in the eastbound, center lane, approaching the intersection from the west. She was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt. The vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, a driver's knee bolster air bag and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling eastbound. Vehicle 2, a 2000 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was being operated in the second from the left, southbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the north. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling south. Vehicle 3, a 2011 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan, was parked and unoccupied at the left curb side parking lane, of the southbound roadway, just south of the intersection area. Note: A pedestrian was standing at the southeast corner of the intersection. Crash: Both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1). As a result of this impact, the left side rail curtain, the driver's frontal air bag and knee bolster air bags deployed. Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise out of the impact and departed the roadway at the southeast corner area of the intersection where it struck a light support pole with its right sill area, then a sign post with its back plane and a pedestrian (unknown plane). Vehicle 1 subsequently continued to rotate counterclockwise and struck a tree with its left side plane. As a result of the impact with the light support pole, Vehicle 1's right side curtain deployed. Vehicle 1 came to rest at the tree, facing a southwesterly direction. Vehicle 2 continued southbound and departed the left side of the southbound roadway, beyond the southeast corner area, where it struck a tree with its left side plane before impacting the rear plane of Vehicle 3. Vehicle 2 came to rest in the southbound roadway, well south of the intersection area, facing a southerly direction. Post-Crash: Both drivers and the pedestrian were transported, by land units, to a local trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 and the pedestrian were also hospitalized with reportedly serious injuries. Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage. Vehicle 3 (parked vehicle) was not towed and was indicated to have minor impact damage.