Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 35 year old, male driver, of a 2010 Volkswagen Passat station wagon, which was primarily involved in a frontal collision with a traffic light pole. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the post-midnight hours (dark, street lights present), of a winter weekend, at the intersection of a north/south trafficway and an east/west trafficway. The southern leg of the intersection consists of three northbound lanes separated from two southbound lanes by a concrete median. The eastern leg of the intersection consists of two eastbound lanes separated from the four westbound lanes by a concrete and tree lined median. The north/south trafficway intersects the east/west trafficway, on the south side, at an angle less than ninety-degrees (acute to the west side / obtuse to the east side). The northbound lanes, as one travels through the intersection, curves to the left. The intersection itself is controlled by overhead, standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals. The speed limit for both the north/south trafficway and the east/west trafficway is 35 mph (56 km/h). At the time of the crash the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. The overall environment is urban in composition. Vehicle 1, the 2010 Volkswagen Passat station wagon, was being operated by the 35-year old male driver (case occupant), in the right northbound through lane. Occupying the right front seating position was a 30 year-old female passenger. The driver of Vehicle 1 was unrestrained, but the right front female passenger was restrained by her 3-point, lap/shoulder belt. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, at back mounted side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to enter the intersection and negotiate the left turning curve and continue traveling northbound. Vehicle 2, a 1999 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, was stopped at the eastern leg of the intersection, in the left turn lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling south. Crash: As Vehicle 1 entered the intersection, reportedly, it was "cut-off" by a non-contacted vehicle encroaching into its lane, from the left. The driver of Vehicle 1 steered right and departed the right side of the roadway, at the eastern leg of the intersection, and struck the east/west traffic median with its left front wheel/rim. Vehicle 1 subsequently struck a traffic light support pole with its frontal plane before coming to rest at the median, facing a northeasterly direction. As a result of the impact, debris from Vehicle 1 struck Vehicle 2 while it was stopped at the intersection. As a result of the impact with the traffic light support pole, Vehicle 1's driver's and passenger's frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The right front passenger of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital, but the extent of their injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. Vehicle 2 was driven from the scene by its uninjured driver.