Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 26-year-old female driver of a 2012 Chevrolet Cruze 4-door sedan, which was involved in an offset, head-on collision with a 2005 Jeep Grand Cherokee utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight), of a fall weekend, on a curved and graded, north/south, two-lane roadway. This roadway has a slight downhill grade and a right turning curve for the southbound travel direction and a posted speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2012 Chevrolet Cruze 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 26-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was unbelted, but the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, a driver's knee bolster air bag, seat back mounted side air bags (front outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 2005 Jeep Grand Cherokee utility vehicle, was traveling northbound, approaching the crash area from the south. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling northbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 traveled south, it drifted into the northbound travel lane where the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 in an offset, head-on collision. Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise out of the impact and struck a guardrail, located at the east roadside edge, with its back plane, before coming to rest, facing a westerly direction. Vehicle 2 also rotated clockwise out of the impact and departed the west side of the roadway. Vehicle 2 struck small shrubs with its back plane before coming to rest, off roadway, facing an easterly direction. As a result of the first impact, the driver's frontal air bag, knee bolster air bag and side rail curtains deployed for Vehicle 1. Post-Crash: Both drivers were transported, by land unit, to a local hospital and were treated and released. Several days later, the driver of Vehicle 1 sought medical treatment again at a local hospital, was transferred to regional hospital and hospitalized, but was transferred several days later to a regional trauma center and hospitalized again due to serious injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.