Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 63-year-old female driver of a 2007 Pontiac G6 4-door sedan, which was involved in an off-set frontal collision with the frontal plane of a 2003 Honda Odyssey minivan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the evening hours (dark, street lights present), of a winter weekday, at the intersection of a north/south trafficway and the access ramp area of an east/west trafficway (interchange area). At the intersection, both the north and southern legs consist of six travel lanes; two northbound through lanes, two dedicated left turn lanes (ramp access) and two southbound through lanes. At the intersection, the north/south trafficway is straight with a slight uphill grade leading into the intersection for the southbound travel direction. The north/south trafficway has a speed limit of 40 mph (64 km/h) and the intersection itself is controlled by overhead, standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Pontiac G6 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 63-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the left, northbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling northbound. Vehicle 2, a 2003 Honda Odyssey minivan was in the left southbound turn lane (access to the eastbound travel ramp). The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to turn left and access the eastbound travel ramp. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 in an off-set configuration. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise somewhat, while Vehicle 2 possibly rotated counterclockwise a minor degree before coming to rest within the intersection. As a result of the frontal impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to have sustained possible injuries, but was not transported from the scene. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.