This 74-year-old male case occupant was the belted driver of a 2008 GMC Sierra C1500 pick-up truck, which was involved in a severe, 12 o'clock frontal impact with the frontal plane of a 2005 Honda Pilot utility vehicle. The case occupant was sitting in a split bench seat, which was adjusted to the rear seat track position. At the time of the crash, the case occupant was 183 cm (72 inches) in height and weighed 124 kg (273 pounds). During the impact, the case occupant was projected mostly forward and a little right in reference to the vehicle, as forward components of the vehicle interior intruded longitudinally rearward. He loaded portions of his seat belt restraint with his pelvis and upper torso (loading marks at the D-ring and latch plate) as his knees contacted the knee bolster panel (deformed). During his forward movement, his left thigh contacted the armrest of the interior door panel (fabric transfer/scuffing) as his left arm contacted the forward upper quadrant of the door panel itself (scuffed/fabric transfer/broken hardware). He loaded the deployed frontal air bag with his chest/face and bent the steering wheel rim with his abdomen. Contact to the center instrument panel (deformed with skin and hair) was either due to his head/upper torso rolling right off the air bag or probably his right arm/hand making contact at some point. Due to the severity of the impact, the case occupant loaded through the deployed frontal air bag and made contact with the steering wheel rim/hub with his head (speculation as to proper placement of belt and/or possibility of "submarining" with noted deflection to the seat cushion/pan). His feet likely made contact with the toe pan and/or foot pedals during the course of the crash (based upon injury and a displaced brake pad). The case occupant came to rest in his respective seating area, though not in an upright position, where he was found by responding emergency medical services personnel. The case occupant's injuries include subarachnoid hemorrhage of the base of the brainstem, bilateral subdural hemorrhage of the cerebum, bilateral subarachnoid hemorrhage of the cerebllum, a subarachnoid hemorrhage of the cerebrum, a C1/C2 fracture/dislocation with cord contusion and an atlanto-occipital dislocation, all probably due to contact with the steering wheel via the frontal air bag. A spleen laceration was possibly due to contact with the steering wheel rim by the case occupant's abdomen, while a T8/T9 fracture/dislocation, with cord contusion, was the probable result of interaction with the steering wheel rim or possibly the seat belt restraint. Lacerations of the liver were the result of probable interaction with the seat belt, though abdomen contact with the steering wheel rim is also possible. A left shoulder contusion/abrasion, a left upper arm contusion/abrasion and bilateral hip abrasions were the certain result of contact with the seat belt webbing. Thoracic injuries including chest abrasions, lung lacerations, lung contusions, rib fractures (left side flail), diaphragm laceration, sternum fracture, pericardial contusion, an abdomen contusion/laceration, an appendix contusion (small) and a bowel laceration (large) were probably due to contact with the steering wheel or possibly the seat belt restraint (issue of submarining). A left thigh abrasion, bilateral knee abrasions and bilateral lower leg abrasions were attributed to certain contact with the knee bolster, while a left ankle dislocation and bilateral foot contusions were the certain result of contact with the toe pan. A nose and cheek abrasion were attributed to the deployed frontal air bag (probable), while a right wrist/forearm laceration, a right wrist dislocation and bilateral hand contusions were all due to unknown contact sources. The maximum Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS) for this case occupant was MAIS 5.