Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 42-year-old female driver of a 2008 BMW 535xi 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a frontal collision with a brick wall (with subsequent rollover). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight), of a spring weekend, at the intersection of an east/west urban trafficway and a north/south roadway. The eastbound roadway, west of the intersection, consists of three eastbound travel lanes and a dedicated left turn lane. A concrete median separates the eastbound travel lanes from the westbound travel lanes; however, at the east side of the intersection the median becomes a raised brick wall with a reclined vertical face (angled inwards with flowers and shrubbery occupying the center area). The intersection itself is controlled by standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals; however the intersection did not contribute or play a part in the crash itself. The eastbound travel direction has speed limit of 35 mph (56 km/h) and is noted to be straight with a negative downhill grade. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2008 BMW 535xi 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 42-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the left eastbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the west. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags and tubular side rail air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling eastbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 approached the intersection from the west, the driver experienced a preceding medical event. Vehicle 1 drifted left and into the left turn lane while traveling east. Vehicle 1 continued through the intersection and eventually struck the median wall with its frontal plane/undercarriage area (event 1). At this time, Vehicle 1 ramped up and off to the right of the wall (eastbound side) where it began to roll right, about its longitudinal axis (event 2). At this time, Vehicle 1's right side plane contacted the median curb edge and then the upper edge of the brick wall with its hood area. Vehicle 1 continued to roll one compete turn and eventually came to rest, on its wheels, in the eastbound travel lanes, east of the intersection, facing a northerly direction. As a result of the frontal impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed. As a result of contact to the right side plane during the initial rollover movement, Vehicle 1's right side rail tubular curtain deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.