Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 26-year old, male driver, of a 2012 Jeep Patriot utility vehicle, which was primarily involved in a frontal collision with the left side plane of a 2002 Chevrolet Avalanche pick-up truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the early morning hours (daylight), of a winter weekend, at the intersection an east/west trafficway and a multi-laned north/south roadway. The westbound travel direction, prior to the intersection, consists of two westbound through lanes and dedicated left and right turn lanes. The roadway has a right turning curve and slight uphill grade leading into the intersection. The southbound travel direction, at the north leg of the intersection, consists of one southbound through lane and dedicated left and right turn lanes, respectively. The southbound travel direction also has a slight uphill grade, but the roadway is straight. The speed limit for both travel directions, leading into the intersection area, is 40 mph (64 km/h). Access into and through the intersection is controlled by standard electric, overhead, tri-colored traffic signals. At the time of the crash, it was foggy and the roadway surfaces were wet. Vehicle 1, the 2012 Jeep Patriot compact utility vehicle, was being operated by the 26-year old male driver (case occupant), in the left, westbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the east. Occupying the right front seating position was a 26-year old female passenger. Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were noted to be restrained by their respective 3-point, lap/shoulder belts. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling westbound. Vehicle 2, a 2002 Chevrolet Avalanche pick-up truck, was traveling southbound, approaching the intersection from the north. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling southbound. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 2. Both vehicles pivoted and subsequently struck again, with the left side plane of Vehicle 2 striking the right side plane of Vehicle 1. Vehicle 2 was redirected in a southwesterly direction as Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise. Vehicle 1 subsequently struck a highway sign post with its back left corner before coming to rest, in the intersection, at the tip of the western median. Vehicle 2 departed the intersection at the southwest corner and struck a small wood fence, with the frontal plane, prior to coming to coming to rest at the southwest corner of the intersection. As a result of the initial frontal impact, Vehicle 1's frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: Both the driver and passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported, by land unit, to a local hospital. The 26-year old female passenger was treated and released, but the 26-year old male driver (case occupant) was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was also transported, by land unit, to a local hospital. The extent of his injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.