Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 51-year old, male driver, of a 2009 Dodge Grand Caravan minivan, which was involved in an offset head-on collision with the frontal plane of a 2003 Dodge Neon 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight), of a winter weekday, on a five-lane, east/west roadway. This roadway consists of two eastbound lanes and two west bound lanes with a dual-use center left turn lane. The roadway is straight, but the crash area represents a hillcrest with both travel directions having a noted uphill grade. Both travel directions have a speed limit of 35 mph (56 km/h) and at the time of the crash it was snowing (or sleet), with the roadway surface being wet. The overall environment is urban with multiple commercial businesses lining either side of the roadway. Vehicle 1, the 2009 Dodge Grand Caravan minivan, was being operated by the 51-year old male driver (case occupant), in the left, eastbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted, side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling eastbound. Vehicle 2, a 2003 Dodge Neon 4-door sedan was traveling westbound in the center left turn lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to make a left turn into a parking lot area. Crash: As Vehicle 1 approached the hillcrest from the west, Vehicle 2 entered the eastbound travel lane and the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 in an offset manner. Vehicle 1 was pushed a short distance rearward as it pivoted clockwise and came to rest mostly in the eastbound travel lane, facing an easterly direction. Vehicle 2 rotated counterclockwise somewhat more than ninety-degrees and came to rest straddling the center turn lane, facing a southeasterly direction. As a result of the frontal impact, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was transported to a local trauma center and hospitalized. The extent of his injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.