Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 90-year old male driver of a 2010 Ford Focus 4-door sedan, which was involved in a severe, frontal impact to the rear plane of a 2013 Honda Civic 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight), of a summer weekday, in the southbound roadway of a north/south trafficway. The southbound roadway is straight, consists of four travel lanes and has a positive uphill grade at the crash area. The speed limit for the roadway is 65 mph (105 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2010 Ford Focus 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 90-year-old male driver (case occupant), in the third southbound travel lane (third from the right). The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt while the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 had just passed a truck and had changed lanes from the third lane into the second southbound travel lane and intended to continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 2013 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, was traveling south, in the second southbound travel lane, ahead of Vehicle 1. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling southbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 traveled south, it changed lanes and approached the slower moving Vehicle 2. For unknown reasons, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the back plane of Vehicle 2. Vehicle 1 lost control and entered the third southbound travel lane before crossing back to the right and coming to an uncontrolled stop in the far right southbound travel lane (first lane). Vehicle 2 experienced a loss of control and eventually came to an uncontrolled rest at the west shoulder area of the roadway. Both vehicles are suspected to have rotated clockwise out of the impact as they traveled to their final rest positions, but this could not be confirmed. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed, as did the right side rail curtain. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was also transported to the regional trauma center, treated and released. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.