Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 26-year-old, female driver of a 2008 Ford F-150 pick-up truck, which was primarily involved in a moderate offset frontal impact, with the frontal plane of a 2000 Jeep Grand Cherokee utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight), of a summer weekday, on a north/south trafficway. Both the north and south roadways, at the area of the crash, are level and straight and consist of three travel lanes; two through lanes and a dedicated left turn lane. Separating the two roadways is grass covered median. Although a paved opening in the median is present, it did not play a part in the crash. The speed limit for both roadways is 55 mph (89 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2008 Ford F-150 pick-up truck, was being operated by the 26-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the left southbound through lane. Occupying the right front seating position was a 34-year-old male passenger. Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point, lap/shoulder belts. Vehicle 1 is also noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 2000 Jeep Grand Cherokee utility vehicle, was traveling in the left northbound through lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling northbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, as Vehicle 1 traveled southbound, it experienced a loss of control. Subsequent to the loss of control, the driver initiated counter steering maneuvers; however, Vehicle 1 departed its travel lane to the right and crossed over the right southbound through lane and partially into the paved shoulder area. Vehicle 1 re-entered the southbound roadway and continued across all three southbound travel lanes and entered the tip of the grass covered median, at the north edge of the open median area. At this time, an unknown plane of Vehicle 1 (probably the frontal plane) struck a small highway sign post. Vehicle 1 continued on and entered the northbound travel lanes. The driver of Vehicle 2, seeing the approach of Vehicle 1, steered to the right, but was unsuccessful in avoiding a collision. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 in an offset fashion, in the right, northbound through lane. After impact, Vehicle 1 came to rest, off of the roadway, at the eastern paved shoulder area, facing a westerly direction. Vehicle 2 came to rest straddling the right northbound through lane and the paved shoulder area, facing a northerly direction, just south of and in close proximity to Vehicle 1. As a result of the impact with Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The right front passenger of Vehicle 1 was also transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center where he was hospitalized. The driver of Vehicle 2 was also transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.