This 51-year-old male case occupant was the unbelted driver of a 2007 Infiniti M35x 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a severe, 11 o'clock, frontal impact to a concrete overpass wall. Note that this is multiple event crash influenced the kinematics of the case occupant. Prior to the crash, the case occupant is believed to have been sitting upright in a bucket seat, which was found, at inspection, adjusted to the mid seat track position, though post-crash movement is suspected given the case occupant's height. At the time of the crash, the case occupant was 183 cm (72 inches) in height and weighed 113 kg (250 pounds). During the first impact with a guardrail, a front right corner impact with sideswiping down the right side plane, the case occupant likely moved somewhat right and perhaps incrementally forward as the case vehicle engaged the guardrail; however, the driver initiated a left steering maneuver in order to disengage from the guardrail, and in so doing, the unbelted case occupant moved significantly inboard, while the case vehicle traveled off the left side of the roadway. During the subsequent main impact with the concrete wall, the case occupant, now in a sub-optimal position, was projected mostly forward, slightly left and upward in reference to the vehicle. The case occupant contacted and scuffed the left knee bolster panel with his left knee, broke the gear shift at the center console with his right thigh area as his upper torso/abdominal areas contacted and deformed the center instrument panel as well as the left instrument panel right of the steering wheel, displacing the steering column to the left (deformed with hair deposits at the column trim panel). His head contacted and scuffed the center map console light panel as his face possibly contacted and displaced the rear view mirror. During the case occupant's movement, he likely contacted the center right area of the windshield, cracking the same, as well as deforming the right instrument panel trim, which was scuffed and cracked. The case occupant moved to his final rest position across the 1st row seating area, with his head and upper torso lying at or near the right front foot well area, where he was found by responding emergency medical services personnel. The case occupant's injuries include a diffuse axonal injury and right frontal scalp contusion, both the probable result of contact with the central header area. Bilateral rib fractures, a sternum fracture, a left lung contusion and a right pneumothorax were all the probable result of chest contact with the center instrument panel area, while a right eyelid contusion was the possible result of direct contact with the rear view mirror. The maximum Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS) for this case occupant was MAIS 5.