Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 63-year-old female driver of a 2011 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, which was involved in a frontal impact with the back plane of a 1991 Isuzu Rodeo compact utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight), of a summer weekday, at the intersection of a north/south roadway and an east/west residential roadway. At the intersection, the north/south roadway consists of three travel lanes, one through lane and one right turn lane for each travel direction. The southbound travel direction is relatively straight with a downhill grade. The east/west residential roadway consists of two travel lanes and has stop signs controlling access into and through the intersection. The speed limit for the southbound travel direction is 50 mph (80 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2011 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 63-year-old female driver (case occupant), in the southbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the north. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted side air bags (front outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 1991 Isuzu Rodeo compact utility vehicle, was stopped, in the southbound through lane, at the north leg of the intersection, waiting to turn left at the intersection in order to continue traveling east. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1's frontal plane struck the back plane of Vehicle 2. As a result, Vehicle 2 was pushed through the intersection and departed the intersection/east roadway edge at the southeast corner of the intersection, coming to rest, facing a southeasterly direction, off road. Vehicle 1 traveled towards the southwest corner of the intersection (suggesting a right steering maneuver by the driver just prior to the impact) and departed the west edge of the roadway, coming to rest, facing a southwesterly direction, off road. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed as did both side rail curtain air bags. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver and two passengers of Vehicle 2 were also transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center; however, the extents of their injuries and/or treatments, if any, are unknown. Both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.