Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 63-year-old male driver of a 2002 Ford Ranger compact pick-up truck and a 30-year old female driver of a 2010 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan, which were involved in a severe, head-on collision. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight), of a fall weekday, on a curved and graded, four-lane roadway. This roadway runs generally north and south and has a downhill grade and a right turning curve for the north bound travel direction. Each travel direction consists of two lanes with a speed limit of 45 mph (72 km/h). At the time of the crash, it was raining and the roadway surface was wet. Vehicle 1, the 2002 Ford Ranger compact pick-up truck, was being operated by the 63-year-old male driver (case occupant 1) in the left southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt while the vehicle is noted to be equipped with redesigned (second generation) frontal impact air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the graded curve and continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 2010 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 30-year-old female driver (case occupant 2) in the left northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 was restrained by a 3-point, lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to negotiate the graded curve section of the roadway and continue traveling northbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, as Vehicle 1 traveled south it entered the left northbound travel lane. As a result, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 in a head-on fashion with some obliqueness. Vehicle 2 was pushed backwards somewhat as it rotated clockwise and came to rest straddling the northbound travel lanes, facing a southeasterly direction. Vehicle 1 came to rest straddling the right northbound lane and the east shoulder area, to the left of and next to Vehicle 2, facing a south easterly direction. As a result of the impact, the frontal air bags for Vehicle 1 and the driver's frontal air bag for Vehicle 2 deployed. Post-Crash: Both drivers (case occupants 1 and 2) were transported, by separate land units, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized. The driver of Vehicle 1 sustained minor to serious injuries while the driver of Vehicle 2 sustained minor to severe injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.