Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 78-year-old female driver of a 2013 Toyota Highlander compact utility vehicle, which was primarily involved in an offset frontal impact with the rear plane of a Freightliner walk in van (straight truck). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This three-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight), of a summer weekday, on a two-lane, east/west roadway. This roadway is relatively straight and has a slight uphill grade for the westbound travel direction. The speed limit for this section of roadway is 40 mph (64 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2013 Toyota Highlander utility vehicle, was being operated by the 78-year-old female driver (case occupant), in the westbound travel lane, approaching the crash area from the east. She was restrained by her 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted side air bags (front outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling westbound. Vehicle 2, a 2013 Freightliner walk-in van (straight truck), was stopped in the westbound travel lane (delivery vehicle). Vehicle 3, an unknown truck type, pulling a trailer, was traveling eastbound and had just crested a hill prior to the crash area. The driver of Vehicle 3 intended to continue traveling eastbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 approached the stopped (parked) Vehicle 2, the driver of Vehicle 1 steered left to pass Vehicle 2, but for unknown reasons (possibly due to the approach of Vehicle 3), Vehicle 1's frontal plane struck the back plane of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Vehicle 2 was pushed slightly off the right side of the roadway. As Vehicle 1 pivoted clockwise it was struck by the trailer portion of Vehicle 3 as Vehicle 3 passed (event 2). Vehicles 1 and 2 came to rest at the crash area, both facing a westerly direction. Vehicle 3 eventually departed the north side of the roadway, where it came to rest, facing a northeasterly direction. As a result of the frontal impact with the rear plane of Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal and knee bolster air bags deployed. Vehicle 1's left side curtain air bag also deployed, but it is unknown as to which event caused its deployment. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver's of Vehicle 2 and Vehicle 3 were reported to be uninjured. Vehicle 1 was towed due to damage sustained in the crash, while Vehicle 2 and Vehicle 3 were reported to have sustained non-functional damage and were driven away from the scene of the crash.