Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 20-year-old female driver and a 21-year-old right front male passenger, both of a 2008 Nissan Maxima 4-door sedan which was primarily involved in a left side impact with a guardrail. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the post-midnight hours (dark), of a summer weekend, on a three-lane northbound roadway. This roadway is the northbound travel direction of a north/south trafficway. The northbound roadway is straight, with a slight downhill grade leading into the crash area. The roadway has a speed limit of 60 mph (97 km/h). At the time of the crash, it was raining heavily and the roadway surface was wet. Vehicle 1, the 2008 Nissan Maxima 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 20-year-old female driver (case occupant 1) in the left, northbound travel lane. Occupying the right front seating position was the 21-year-old male passenger (case occupant 2). Occupying the left rear seating position was a 22-year-old male passenger. All three occupants of Vehicle 1 were unrestrained, but Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted side air bags (front outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling northbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 traveled north, it hydroplaned on the wet roadway and the driver subsequently loss control. Vehicle departed the eastside of the roadway where it struck a guardrail with its frontal plane and then a curb with its right front wheel (events 1 and 2). Vehicle 1 began to rotate clockwise into the remaining sections of guardrail. At this time, the left side plane engaged a section of guardrail (event 3), a portion of which broke away penetrating the vehicle interior from the driver's foot well area all the way through to the right front passenger's foot well area (guardrail ends protruding from either side of the vehicle / event 4). At this time, Vehicle 1 began to overturn (left side leading) four quarter turns (event 5) and came to rest along the east roadside embankment, facing a northeasterly direction. As result of the frontal impact with the guardrail, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed. As a result of the left side plane impact with the guardrail, Vehicle 1's left side impact air bags (driver seat back and left side rail curtain) deployed. Post-Crash: All three occupants of Vehicle 1 were removed from the vehicle and transported, by land units, to a local trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was hospitalized with moderate to serious injuries, while the right front passenger was also hospitalized with moderate to serious injuries. The left rear passenger was also transported with incapacitating injuries, but the extent of his injureis and treatment, if any, are unknown. Vehicle 1 was towed due to damage sustained in the crash.