Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 67-year-old female driver of a 2007 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, which was involved in a moderate, narrow corner, frontal impact with a tree, with a subsequent two-quarter turn rollover. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight), of a summer weekday, at the intersection of two residential roadways. The north/south roadway is relatively straight and level and consists of two travel lanes. The east/west roadway consists of two travel lanes and curves to the right, with a downhill grade for the westbound travel direction. The north/south roadway intersects the east/west roadway on the north side, forming a "T-type" intersection. The speed limit for both roadways is 25 mph (40 km/h) and at the time of the crash the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 67-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the southbound travel lane of the north/south roadway, approaching the intersection from the north. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, seat back mounted side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to turn right at the intersection and continue traveling westbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 approached the intersection from the north, for unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 traveled through the intersection while turning right, but departed the southern edge of the east/west roadway. Vehicle 1 traveled across the front yard and driveway of a residential unit and subsequently struck a tree with its front right corner with engagement of the right front axle/wheel. As a result of the tree impact, Vehicle 1 rotated/pivoted clockwise and rolled over two-quarter turns, the liekly the result of a combination of a "bounce-over" mechanism at the end plane and a "tripping" mechanism at the left side wheels. Vehicle 1 came to rest on its roof, in the front yard of an adjacent residential unit, facing a northwesterly direction. As a result of the impact with the tree, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed, as did the right side rail curtain. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.