This crash involves two case occupants involved in a head-on collision, followed by two moderate secondary non-horizontal impacts and a minor rollover event. The first case occupant is the 54 year old male front right passenger, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, with a deployed frontal air bag who sustained serious injuries. The second case occupant is a 70 year old male, second row left side passenger, who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt and also sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred on a state freeway, during daylight hours under overcast weather and dry roadway conditions. The roadway is comprised of one east and one westbound asphalt travel lane, with narrow paved strips bordering them on both sides, and a steel guardrail present on the south side of the freeway. For eastbound vehicles, the travel lane curves to the right with a downhill grade. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2005 Ford F250 Super Cab large pickup, was traveling east in the eastbound lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Mercedes-Benz C240 sedan, was traveling west in the westbound lane. There was a non-contact vehicle traveling west, ahead of V2. All three vehicles were negotiating the curved section of roadway when V2 attempted to pass the non-contact vehicle. V2 crossed the center lane lines, traveled into the eastbound lane and the front of V2 impacted the front of V1, resulting in the deployment of V1's dual frontal air bags. V1's back end was lifted up from the impact as it rotated slightly counterclockwise and V1's right side impacted the guardrail face non-horizontally, resulting in moderate damage. Then V1's right front impacted the guardrail non-horizontally, also resulting in moderate damage. Then V1 rolled over one quarter turn to the right and came to final rest on its right side, facing northeast, with its right side front resting on top of the guardrail and the back end on the ground. After the initial head-on impact, V2 rotated approximately 180 degrees counterclockwise and came to final rest facing northeast in the eastbound lane. V2 experienced a fire, which was put out by a passerby with a fire extinguisher. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. The first case occupant in V1 is a 54 year old male front right passenger who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His frontal instrument panel mounted air bag deployed. He sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. The second case occupant is the 70 year old male, second row left side passenger, who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. There were no air bags available in this seating position. He also sustained serious injuries and was taken to the trauma center. There was a 64 year old male driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt who also sustained injuries. He was taken to an outside hospital and his treatment status is unknown. The 22 year old male driver of V2 was pronounced dead at the scene. There was a 22 year old female occupant in V2's front right seating position. According to news reports and witnesses on-scene, she was pregnant (third trimester). She was transported to an outside hospital but her treatment status is unknown.