This crash involves two case occupants involved in a severe frontal collision with a large tree. The first case occupant is the 21 year old male driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt with deployed frontal, side and curtain air bags who sustained severe injuries. The second case occupant is the 19 year old male front row right passenger, not wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt with a deployed frontal air bag. He sustained severe injuries. There were two additional occupants seated in the second row. This single vehicle crash occurred in darkness with overhead street lights under foggy weather conditions and wet travel lanes. Vehicle one (V1), a 2012 Nissan Versa four door hatchback, was northbound in lane one of a two lane, two way roadway. The asphalt travel lanes are straight, with a downhill grade for northbound vehicles. As V1 was traveling north, it approached a "T" intersection. V1 crossed through the intersection and the front left and right tires impacted the curb, resulting in wheel and rim damage. V1 continued up and over the curb, traveled a short distance north and the front of V1 impacted a large tree, resulting in the actuation of the front row seat belt retractor pretensioners and the deployments of both frontal air bags, the left side air bag and the left side curtain. Then V1's left rear tire impacted the curb, resulting in minor damage. V1 rotated slightly counterclockwise and came to final rest off the roadway, facing northwest. V1 was towed due to damage. The first case occupant is the driver of V1, a 21 year old male who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His steering column mounted front air bag, left outboard seat back mounted side air bag and left roof side rail mounted side curtain all deployed during the crash. This occupant sustained severe injuries and was transported to the trauma center where he was hospitalized for forty-one days. The second case occupant is the front right passenger of V1, a 19 year old male, who was not wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His top instrument panel frontal air bag deployed. This passenger sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center for treatment. He was hospitalized for eight days. In the second row there was an 18 year old male left side passenger, who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. He sustained serious injuries in the crash and was transported to the trauma center for treatment. There was a 20 year old male seated in the second row right seat. He was not wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. He sustained fatal injuries and was declared dead at the scene.