This case occupant is a 54 year old female driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, with frontal and knee air bag deployments. She was involved in a moderate frontal crash, followed by a secondary minor frontal impact. This driver sustained serious injuries and was hospitalized at the trauma center. There were no other occupants in the vehicle. This crash occurred during daylight hours on a three lane, two way north-south roadway with parking lanes present on both sides of the street. In the area where the crash occurred, the one northbound asphalt travel lane has a downhill grade and at the time of the crash, the roadway was wet, with rainy weather conditions. Vehicle one (V1), a 2013 Ford Escape compact utility vehicle, was traveling north in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2009 Toyota Scion two-door hatchback, was legally parked and unoccupied in the east parking lane. Vehicle three, (V3), a 1991 Honda Civic four door station wagon, was also legally parked and unoccupied in the east parking lane, just north of V2's location. As the driver of V1 traveled north, V1 departed its lane to the right and the front of V1 impacted the back of V2, resulting in the actuation of the driver's seat belt retractor pretensioner and the deployment of the driver's frontal and knee air bags. V2 was pushed into the roadway, crossed over all of the travel lanes and came to final rest in the west parking lane, facing southeast. After the initial impact, V1 continued north and then the front of V1 impacted the back of V3. Both vehicles moved a short distance north and came to final rest in the parking lane, still in contact, facing north. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. V3 remained at the scene. The case occupant in V1 is a 54 year old female driver who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. This case occupant's steering column mounted frontal air bag and bottom left instrument panel mounted knee air bag deployed during the crash. She sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center where she was hospitalized for four days. There were no other occupants in the vehicle.