The case occupant is a 29 year old female front right passenger who was involved in a moderate near side impact crash. This occupant was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt with a frontal impact air bag deployment and she sustained serious injuries. This intersection crash occurred during daylight hours under clear weather and dry roadway conditions. In the area where the crash occurred, the roadway is level and is comprised of one east and one westbound asphalt travel lane. The intersecting roadway is a two lane, two way asphalt street with no traffic controls. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Ford Ranger large pickup, was traveling west in the westbound lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2008 Chevrolet Malibu four door sedan, was traveling east in the eastbound lane. Both vehicles were approaching the intersecting street. V1 turned left in front of V2. The driver of V2 attempted to avoid the collision by steering right, but the front of V2 impacted the right side of V1, resulting in the deployment of V1's frontal air bags and the actuation of the front row seat belt buckle pretensioners. V1 rotated counterclockwise as it traveled towards the southeast corner of the intersection. Then V1 began to rollover to the left, and completed four quarter turns. During the last quarter turn, V1's left side impacted a pole, resulting in minor damage. V1 came to final rest near the pole, facing southwest. After the initial impact, V2 rotated nearly 180 degrees clockwise and came to final rest near the southeast corner, facing west. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant in V1 is a 29 year old female front right passenger who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. Her seat belt buckle pretensioner actuated and her mid instrument panel mounted frontal air bag deployed. She sustained serious injuries and was transported to an outside hospital prior to being transferred to the trauma center, where she was hospitalized for four days. The driver of V1, a 29 year old male, was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His seat belt buckle pretensioner actuated and his steering column mounted frontal air bag deployed. He sustained visible injuries, was transported to an outside hospital, but his treatment status is not known.