This near impact crash case involves a 66 year old female second row left side passenger, not wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. Both side curtain air bags deployed and this occupant sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred during the early morning hours in a four legged intersection with traffic signals present for all travel lanes. At the time of the crash there were clear weather conditions, dry roadways and it was dark with overhead street lights. The southbound, one-way roadway consists of two level asphalt travel lanes with parking lanes present on both sides of the street. The one way intersecting east-west roadway consists of two level asphalt travel lanes, with parking lanes present on both sides. The case vehicle one (V1), a 2008 Chevrolet Express G1500 van, was traveling south in lane one. V1 was an airport shuttle van and had picked up multiple passengers just prior to the crash. Vehicle 2 (V2), a 2002 GMC Sierra K2500 heavy duty large pickup, was traveling west in lane one on the intersecting street. V1 and V2 entered the intersection and the front of V2 impacted the left side of V1, resulting in the deployment of V1's side curtain air bags. V1 and V2 rotated counterclockwise towards the southwest corner of the intersection. V1 began to rollover to the right, completed two quarter turns and came to final rest across the parking lane and west curb, facing northeast. V2 traveled over the southwest curb and came to final rest partially off the roadway, facing southwest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant is the 66 year old female second row left side V1 passenger, who was not restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. Her left roof side rail mounted curtain air bag deployed during the crash. She sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center where she was hospitalized for ten days. There were seven other occupants in the vehicle. All of them reportedly sustained possible injuries, and their treatment status is unknown. The driver of V2 was also reportedly injured, but it is not known whether or not he received any medical treatment.