This four vehicle crash involves a case occupant who was the passenger in a minivan. The case occupant is a 13 year old male second row right side passenger, who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, and was involved in a severe frontal collision followed by a minor rollover event. He sustained serious injuries and was hospitalized at the trauma center. This crash occurred during daylight hours on a two lane, two way state highway. There are paved shoulders on both sides of the travel lanes, and a shallow ditch runs parallel to the roadway on the north side. In the area where the crash occurred, the asphalt lanes are straight and level, and there are occasional intersecting private residential driveways present. At the time of the crash, there were clear weather conditions and dry travel lanes. Vehicle one (V1), a 2001 Dodge Grand Caravan minivan, was westbound in the westbound lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Dodge Durango large utility vehicle, was traveling east in the eastbound lane. Vehicle three (V3), a 1999 Chrysler Town and Country minivan, was traveling east, just ahead of V2. Vehicle four (V4), a 1998 Chevrolet Blazer large utility vehicle, was stopped in the eastbound lane, waiting to make a left turn into a private driveway located on the north side of the street. As V3 approached V4, the driver began to decelerate. As V2 approached V3, the driver began to brake and steer left, but could not avoid striking V3. V2's front right impacted the back left of V3, resulting in minor damage to both vehicles. V2 continued east as it crossed over the center lane line and entered V1's travel lane. The driver of V1 steered to the right, but the front of V1 impacted the front of V2, resulting in the deployment of V1's dual front air bags and actuation of the front row seat belt buckle pretensioners. V1 rotated counterclockwise and departed the north side of the highway. V1 traveled down a shallow ditch and then began to rollover to the right. V1 completed two quarter turns and came to final rest on its top, facing southwest. During the impact between V1 and V2, V2 rotated sharply counterclockwise and its right side impacted the back of V4. V2 continued to rotate counterclockwise and came to final rest in the eastbound lane, facing southwest. V3 and V4 were driven to the south shoulder. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. V3 and V4 were impounded by police but V3 was later released to the owner. The case occupant in V1 is the 13 year old male second row right side passenger who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. There are no air bags available in this seating position. He sustained severe injuries and was transported to the trauma center, where he was hospitalized for three days. There were five other occupants in V1. The 37 year old female driver was wearing the manual lap/shoulder belt. Her seat belt buckle pretensioner actuated and her steering column mounted front air bag deployed during the crash. She sustained incapacitating injuries and was transported to an unknown hospital. The 14 year old male front right passenger was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His seat belt buckle pretensioner actuated and his instrument panel mounted front air bag deployed. He reportedly was not injured. There was a 10 year old male in the second row left seating position, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. He reportedly sustained serious injuries, but his treatment status is unknown. There was an 11 year old female in the third row left seating position. She was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt and her injury and treatment status are not known. There was a seven year old female third row right side passenger, seated in a low-back booster seat and restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. Her injury and treatment status are unknown. The driver of V2 was reportedly not injured and did not receive medical treatment. There were two child passengers in V2 but their injury and treatment status are unknown. The driver of V3 was reportedly not injured. The driver of V4 reportedly complained of back pain but his treatment status is unknown.