This frontal impact crash case involves an 82 year old female driver wearing a manual lap/shoulder belt, with deployed frontal, side and curtain air bags who sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred during daylight hours in a T-intersection. The north-south roadway consists of four asphalt travel lanes with a downhill grade for southbound vehicles. The east-west intersecting street consists of three level asphalt travel lanes with a posted stop sign present at the intersection. At the time of the crash, there were clear weather conditions and dry roadways. The case vehicle one (V1), a 2012 Honda CR-V compact utility vehicle, was traveling east in lane two and was approaching the posted stop sign, intending to make a left turn. Vehicle 2 (V2), a 2003 Mitsubishi Outlander compact utility vehicle, was traveling south in lane two on the intersecting street. V1 began to turn left across V2's travel path and the front of V1 impacted the front of V2, resulting in the actuation of the driver's retractor pretensioner and deployment of her frontal, side and curtain air bags. V1 rotated clockwise and came to final rest in the southbound lanes, facing southeast. V2 rotated slightly counterclockwise, traveled across the northbound lane and came to final rest on the east shoulder, facing southeast. V1 and V2 sustained disabling damage and were towed from the scene. The case occupant is the 82 year old female driver of V1 who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. This case occupant's seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated, and her steering column mounted frontal, outboard seat back mounted side and left roof side rail mounted curtain air bags all deployed. This case occupant sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center where she was hospitalized for seven days. There was an 85 year old female passenger, seated in the front right position, who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. Her seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and her top instrument panel mounted frontal air bag deployed during the crash. She sustained serious injuries and was also transported to the trauma center, but her treatment status is not known. The driver and passengers in V2 sustained minor injuries, and it is not known if they sought medical treatment.