The case occupant in this multivehicle crash is a 19 year old female driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, with no air bag deployments. She was involved in a near-side moderate impact and sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred during daylight hours on a southbound freeway onramp that consists of four one-way lanes. At the time of the crash, there were clear weather conditions and dry travel lanes. In the area where the crash occurred, the asphalt lanes have an uphill grade and are straight for a while, then curve to the left. The two outside lanes are carpool lanes and the two center lanes are for all traffic and have metered lights present during times of heavy freeway traffic. At the time of the crash, the ramp meter was being used to control traffic flow. Vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Chevrolet Cobalt four door sedan, was southbound in lane two. Vehicle two (V2), a 2002 Lexus ES300 four door sedan, and Vehicle three (V3), a 2012 Volkswagen Jetta four door sedan, were in lane two, stopped at the metered light. As V1 traveled south on the on-ramp, the driver was momentarily distracted and did not notice that traffic ahead was stopped. She attempted to avoid the vehicles by steering right. V1's left side impacted the back of V2, resulting in the actuation of V1's front row retractor pretensioners. The force of the impact pushed V2 south and the front of V2 impacted the back of V3. V1 came to final rest across the center lanes, facing southwest. V2 and V3 came to final rest still in lane two, facing south. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. V3 was driven from the scene. The case occupant in V1 is the 19 year old female driver who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. Her seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated during the crash. There were no air bag deployments. She sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center where she was hospitalized for two days. There was an 11 month old child secured in a rear facing child safety seat in the second row left seating position. The child safety seat was secured to the vehicle using the available lower anchors (use of available tether anchor not known). This occupant was reportedly not injured. There were no reported injuries to any of the occupants in the other involved vehicles.