This single vehicle crash involves a 71 year old male driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, with multiple air bag deployments. The driver sustained severe injuries and was hospitalized for twenty-seven days. This crash occurred on a two lane, one way freeway during daylight hours under clear weather and dry roadway conditions. In the precrash area, the asphalt travel lanes are level and curve to the right. There is a paved shoulder on the west side. On the east side of the lanes is a narrow strip of pavement with a rumble strip present. There is a cable barrier next to the paved strip, and as the travel lanes become an overpass, the cable barrier joins up with a guardrail. Adjacent to the guardrail is a grassy median that separates the north and southbound freeway lanes. Below the overpass is a two lane, two way asphalt roadway, with dirt shoulders and chain link fences protecting the bridge overpass support posts. Vehicle one (V1), a 2015 Chevrolet Silverado K1500 large pickup, was traveling south on the inner southbound freeway lane. The driver was negotiating the curve when he fell asleep. V1 departed it's lane to the left and the front of V1 impacted the cable barrier, resulting in minor damage. V1 continued south and then the front of V1 impacted the guardrail face, also resulting in minor damage. V1 traveled up and over the guardrail and continued in a southerly direction through the grassy median. V1 went into a counterclockwise yaw and began to tilt to the right (not rolling over), resulting in the actuation of the driver's seat belt retractor pretensioner and the deployment of the left and right roof side rail mounted curtain air bags. Then V1's right undercarriage and tires impacted the roadway below, resulting in the deployment of the right seat back mounted side air bag. While still tilted to the right, V1 skidded laterally across the underpass street and then V1's right back impacted a street sign post, resulting in minor damage. Then V1's right side impacted a chain link fence and a large bridge support post just behind the fence. V1 came to final rest against the bridge support post, facing east on its tires. V1 was towed due to damage. The case occupant is the driver of V1, a 71 year old male, who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and the right front seat back mounted side and both roof side rail mounted side curtains deployed during the crash. The driver sustained severe injuries and was transported to the trauma center where he was hospitalized for twenty-seven days. There were no other occupants in the vehicle.