This near side impact crash involves a 40 year old male driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, with deployed frontal, knee, side and curtain air bags and who sustained severe injuries. This crash occurred in a four legged intersection during the early morning hours, in darkness with overhead street lights. The north-south roadway consists of two level asphalt travel lanes with stop signs present at the intersection. The east-west intersecting street consists of three asphalt travel lanes, with a slight uphill grade for eastbound vehicles. At the time of the crash, there were clear weather conditions and dry travel lanes. The case vehicle one (V1), a 2011 Ford Fiesta four door hatchback, was traveling north in the northbound lane and was approaching the posted stop sign, intending to make a left turn. Vehicle 2 (V2), a 1985 Porsche 944 two door coupe, was traveling east in the curb lane of the intersecting street. V1 began to turn left across V2's travel path and the front of V2 impacted the left side of V1, resulting in the actuation of V1's driver's seat belt retractor pretensioner and the deployment of his frontal, knee, side and curtain air bags. V1 rotated clockwise while traveling in a southeasterly direction and partially traveled off the south side of the roadway. V1 came to final rest with its back end on the roadway and its front end across the sidewalk and planting strip. V1 came to rest on top of a couple shrubs that were present in the planting strip, but they had been pruned low and did not cause any damage to V1, so were not included as events. V2 traveled in a northeasterly direction and came to final rest in lane three, facing northeast. V1 and V2 sustained disabling damage and were towed from the scene. The case occupant is the 40 year old male driver of V1 who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. This case occupant's seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated, and his steering column mounted frontal, bottom left instrument panel mounted knee, outboard seat back mounted side and left roof side rail mounted curtain air bags all deployed. This case occupant sustained cirtical injuries and was transported to an outside hospital, prior to being transferred to the trauma center where he was hospitalized for seven days. There were no other occupants in the vehicle. The male driver of V2 sustained visible injuries, but it is not known if he sought medical treatment.