This crash involves two case occupants who were in a severe frontal collision. The first case occupant is the 73 year old male driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, with a deployed frontal air bag. The second case occupant is a 70 year old female, front right passenger. She was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt and her frontal air bag also deployed. Both occupants sustained serious injuries in the crash. This crash occurred during daylight hours under clear weather and dry roadway conditions. In the crash area, the roadway is comprised of three west and three eastbound concrete travel lanes, with additional left turn only lanes present at intersecting streets. For eastbound vehicles, the travel lanes curve to the right and are level. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2013 Chevrolet Impala four door sedan, was traveling east in lane three of the eastbound lanes. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Dodge Ram B1500 van, was traveling east in the same lane, ahead of V1. Vehicle three (V3), a 2006 Saturn Ion four door sedan, was traveling east in lane one, and was approaching an intersection, intending to make a right turn. V1 was negotiating the curved section of the roadway when the driver experienced an unknown type of medical episode and began to accelerate. V1 traveled east at a high rate of speed and the front of V1 impacted the back of V2, resulting in the actuation of V1's front seat belt retractor pretensioners and the deployment of the dual frontal air bags. V2 was overpowered and was pushed east by V1. The two vehicles disengaged and V1 came to final rest in lane two, facing east. V1 experienced a small engine fire which resulted in minor damage. V2 continued east and then the front of V2 impacted the back of V3, resulting in minor damage to V2's front bumper. V2 rotated clockwise as it traveled into the intersection and came to final rest facing west. V3 was pushed into the intersection and came to final rest facing east next to V2. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage. V3 was drivable but was impounded by police. The first case occupant in V1 is the 73 year old male driver who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His steering column mounted frontal air bag deployed. He sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center, where he was hospitalized for twelve days. The second case occupant is the 70 year old female, front right passenger, who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. Her top instrument panel mounted frontal air bag deployed. She sustained serious injuries and was also taken to the trauma center, where she was hospitalized for six days. There were no other occupants in the vehicle. According to police, the driver of V2 sustained injuries but it is not known if he sought medical treatment. The driver of V3 was reportedly not injured.