This severe frontal crash involved a restrained 61 year old female driver, with frontal and knee air bag deployments, who sustained severe injuries and was transported to the trauma center. This crash occurred during daylight hours with clear, dry conditions in an interchange area of a state highway. In this section of the freeway there are two westbound and two eastbound lanes divided by double raised curbs with on-ramps present on both sides of the freeway. The highway curves to the right for eastbound traffic and curves left for vehicles traveling westbound. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2013 Mercedes GLK350 compact utility vehicle, was travelling in eastbound lane one of two and was negotiating the curve while approaching the interchange area. Vehicle two (V2), a 1992 Honda Accord four door sedan was travelling on the westbound on-ramp intending to merge into the westbound lanes. Vehicle three (V3), a 2013 Toyota Tacoma compact pickup truck, was westbound in lane one of the westbound travel lanes and was approaching the interchange area. While on the on-ramp, V2 lost control and departed the ramp to the left. V2 crossed over the paved gore point area in front of V3's travel path. As V3 moved to the right in an attempt to avoid V2, the right side of V2 impacted the left side of V3. V3 came to a controlled stop on the north freeway shoulder and was able to be driven from the scene. After V2 struck V3, V2 continued traveling in a southwesterly direction, crossed over the center raised curbs and entered the eastbound lanes. Then the front of V2 impacted the front of V1, resulting in the actuation of V1's driver seat belt retractor pretensioner and the deployment of V1's driver side frontal and knee air bags. V1 and V2 rotated towards one another and V2's right side impacted V1's left side, resulting in moderate damage. V1 continued to rotate nearly 360 degrees before coming to final rest in the eastbound on-ramp gore point, facing east. V2 rotated approximately 270 degrees counterclockwise and came to final rest across both eastbound lanes, facing northwest. Both V1 and V2 were disabled and towed. The driver of V1 is the case occupant and the only occupant in the vehicle. She was a 61 year old female and was wearing the available manual lap and shoulder belt. During the first impact with V2, the driver's seatbelt retractor pretensioner actuated and the front steering column mounted and lower left instrument panel/knee bolster mounted air bags deployed. The case occupant sustained severe injuries and was transported to the trauma center where she was hospitalized for five days. After being discharged, this occupant returned to the trauma center on three separate occasions for operations.