This severe two vehicle head-on crash involved two case occupants who were the drivers of separate vehicles. The driver of vehicle one was a 75 year old male who was restrained with the manual lap/shoulder belt. His frontal and knee air bags deployed during the crash and he sustained moderate severity injuries. The driver of vehicle two was a 45 year old male who was restrained with a manual lap/shoulder belt with frontal, side and curtain air bag deployments. He sustained serious injuries. Both case occupants were airlifted and hospitalized at the trauma center. This crash occurred during daylight hours under clear, dry conditions on a hillcrest of a two-lane, two-way highway with narrow paved shoulders. Vehicle one (V1), a 2009 Toyota Camry four door sedan, was in the westbound lane travelling downhill and crossed over the double yellow lane lines into the eastbound lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2015 Mazda 3 four door sedan, was travelling uphill in the eastbound lane and the front of V1 impacted the front of V2. V1 rotated counterclockwise back into the westbound lane and its right rear contacted a road marker stake, causing minor damage. V1 came to final rest facing south across the westbound lane. V2 also rotated counterclockwise and was pushed rearward prior to coming to final rest facing northwest across the eastbound lane. Both vehicles were towed disabled. The drivers of both vehicles are case occupants. There were no other occupants in either vehicle. The driver of V1 is a 75 year old male who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. On impact the belt pretensioner actuated and both the steering column mounted frontal and lower instrument panel knee airbags deployed. He sustained moderate severity injuries and was airlifted to the trauma center and hospitalized. The driver of V2 is a 45 year old male who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. On impact his belt pretensioner actuated and his steering column mounted frontal, his seatback mounted side, and his left roof side rail mounted curtain airbags all deployed. He sustained serious injuries and was airlifted to the trauma center and hospitalized.