The case occupant is a 42 year old female front row right side passenger who was involved in a head-on collision with another vehicle. This occupant was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt with a frontal air bag deployment. She sustained critical injuries. This crash occurred in darkness, during evening hours, on an interstate freeway overpass under clear and dry weather and roadway conditions. In the area where the crash occurred, the roadway is comprised of four eastbound and two westbound asphalt travel lanes. For eastbound vehicles, the travel lanes are straight with a slight downhill grade. The westbound lanes are straight with an uphill grade. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2012 Chevrolet Malibu four door sedan, was traveling east in lane four. Vehicle two (V2), a 2011 Nissan Altima four door sedan, was traveling west in the inside westbound lane. As the vehicles proceeded across the freeway overpass, V2 departed its lane to the left and traveled into V1's lane of travel. V1's front impacted the front of V2, resulting in the actuation of V1's front row seat belt retractor and anchor pretensioners and the deployment of the frontal air bags. V1 rotated slightly clockwise and came to final rest in the roadway, facing southeast. V2 rotated slightly clockwise and came to final rest on the roadway, facing northwest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant in V1 is the 42 year old female front row right side passenger who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. Her seat belt retractor and anchor pretensioners actuated and her mid instrument panel mounted frontal air bag deployed. She sustained critical injuries and was transported to an outside hospital where she was hospitalized overnight. She was transferred to the trauma center the following day and was hospitalized for an additional thirty-nine days. There was a 59 year old male driver in the case vehicle. He was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt at the time of the crash. His seat belt retractor and anchor pretensioners actuated and his steering column mounted front air bag deployed. He was transported to an outside hospital but his treatment status is unknown. The 51 year old male driver of V2 sustained visible injuries and was taken to an area hospital for treatment. He was the sole occupant of V2.