This case occupant is a 19 year old male second row left side passenger who was involved in a single vehicle frontal crash. This occupant was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt with a left side curtain air bag deployment. He sustained severe injuries. This crash occurred just after midnight in darkness, during rainy weather and wet roadway conditions. Vehicle one (V1), a 2014 Toyota Corolla four door sedan, was northbound in lane one on a two lane, two way, asphalt roadway with a slight downhill grade for northbound vehicles. V1 was approaching an intersection and the driver intended to make a right turn onto the intersecting roadway. The driver of V1 reported that he miscalculated the curve and was traveling too fast for the roadway conditions. As V1 began to make the turn, the driver lost control of the vehicle and V1 began traveling towards the northeast corner of the intersection. V1 traveled across the paved shoulder and the front of V1 impacted the bridge rails and raised curb, resulting in the deployment of both the driver and passenger frontal air bags, the driver knee air bag, both front row side air bags and both curtain air bags. V1 then rotated counterclockwise and its right rear tire struck the bridge curb, resulting in minor damage (it did not meet the damage threshold necessary to be included as a crash event). V1 came to final rest on the north shoulder of the bridge, facing west. V1 was towed due to damage. The case occupant is the second row left side passenger of V1, a 19 year old male, who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His left roof side rail curtain air bag deployed during the crash. This occupant sustained severe injuries and was transported to an outside hospital for treatment. Within a few hours he was transferred to the trauma center and was hospitalized for three days. The driver of V1, a 23 year old male, was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt and had multiple air bag deployments in his seating area. According to police, he sustained a possible injury and was transported to a local hospital, but his treatment status is unknown. There was a 21 year old male front right passenger, also restrained with the available manual/lap shoulder belt, with multiple air bag deployments in his seating position. Per police, he sustained a possible injury and was taken to the local hospital where his treatment status is unknown.