This near side crash case involves a 24 year old male front row right side passenger, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, with a deployed frontal and side air bag and who sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred in darkness, during cloudy weather and wet roadway conditions. In this area, the roadway is comprised of one north and one southbound travel lane with no curbs on either side. Adjacent to the east side of the roadway is a grassy area, followed by fencing with large wood posts. In the pre-crash area, the northbound lane curves to the left. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Subaru Impreza WRX four-door sedan, was traveling north in lane one, and was approaching the curve. As V1 negotiated the curve, the driver lost control, began to go into a slight counterclockwise yaw, and departed the roadway to the right. V1 traveled approximately 90 meters north while rotating counterclockwise and then V1's right rear impacted a telephone pole, shearing it off its base. V1 rotated slightly clockwise, and then its right front door impacted a fence post, resulting in the deployment of the front row right side air bag. V1 continued north while rotating clockwise and V1's front impacted another fence post, resulting in the deployment of both frontal air bags. As V1 continued to rotate and travel north, its left front impacted another fence post, resulting in moderate damage. V1 continued to rotate as it traveled approximately 58 meters further north, while partially in lane one and partially on the shoulder. Then V1 traveled down a sloped area adjacent to the east roadway edge and the left side of V1 impacted another fence post, resulting in minor damage. V1 came to final rest on the east side of the roadway, near the damaged fencing, facing south. V1 was towed due to damage. The case occupant is a 24 year old male in the front right seating position who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. This case occupant's top instrument panel mounted frontal and outboard seat back mounted side air bags deployed during the crash. He sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. The driver of V1 was a 24 year old male who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His steering wheel mounted frontal air bag deployed during the third crash event. He sustained minor injuries and his treatment status is unknown.