This near-side moderate severity crash involves a 77 year old male driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, with a frontal airbag deployment occurring during the secondary minor front impact. This crash occurred during daylight hours in a curved section of a three lane, two way roadway with a steep grade. The two southbound lanes have an uphill grade and curve to the right and there is a single northbound lane that curves to the left with a downhill grade. It was snowing heavily and the travel lanes were snow covered. Vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Mercury Grand Marquis four door sedan was travelling in lane two of the southbound lanes and lost control while negotiating the curve to the right. V1 began to rotate clockwise 120 degrees while crossing the center lane lines into the northbound lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Ford F350 truck pulling a trailer with snow mobiles, was travelling in the northbound lane when the front of V2 impacted the left side of V1. V2 overpowered V1 with the downgrade and snowy surfaces and pushed V1 north while V1 rotated counterclockwise. V2 rotated clockwise and the trailer on V2 swung around to the left side of V2. The back of the trailer impacted the back of V1 near the center line. The vehicles continued to slide north into the southbound lanes and V1 continued to rotate counterclockwise 180 degrees. Then the front left corner of V1 impacted the trailer of V2 again. As the vehicle came to final rest the right side of the trailer contacted V1's left front. V1 came to final rest facing southwest in lane one of the southbound lanes and V2 with the trailer still attached came to final rest facing southeast in lane two of the southbound lanes. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The driver of V1 is the case subject and is a 77 year old male who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. This occupant's seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and his frontal steering column mounted airbag deployed during the frontal impact with the trailer. He was transported to a local hospital and later was transferred to the trauma center. No other occupants were in V1.