This case occupant is a 29 year old male front right passenger, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, with a frontal air bag deployment. He was involved in a multiple event crash, with the primary event being a moderate left side impact with a concrete bridge support post. This case occupant sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred in darkness with overhead street lights on a three lane, one-way section of freeway collector/distributor lanes with shoulders on both sides. The concrete roadway has a slight downhill grade, with a guardrail present to the east of the travel lanes. An additional freeway entrance lane joins up with the three other northbound lanes. Vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Toyota Corolla four door sedan, was traveling north in lane two when the driver lost control of the vehicle. V1 traveled in a northeasterly direction and departed the roadway to the right while in a clockwise yaw. The front of V1 impacted the guardrail, resulting in the actuation of both frontal seat belt retractor pretensioners and the deployment of both frontal air bags. V1 rotated clockwise and its left front impacted the guardrail and a large concrete overhead bridge support post located just behind the guardrail. V1 continued to rotate clockwise and its left rear impacted the guardrail a third time, resulting in moderate damage. V1 continued rotating clockwise and traveled a short distance before coming to final rest, facing northwest, straddling the shoulder and lane one. V1 was towed due to damage. The case occupant is the front right passenger of V1, a 29 year old male, who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and his instrument panel mounted frontal impact air bag deployed during the first crash event. This occupant sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. The 30 year old male driver was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and his steering column mounted frontal air bag deployed. He sustained minor injuries and his treatment status is unknown.