This case occupant is an 88 year old female second row right seat passenger, wearing a manual lap/shoulder belt, who was involved in three minor frontal collisions followed by a moderate frontal impact, ending in a minor rollover event. She sustained serious injuries. This single vehicle crash occurred during daylight hours, with clear weather and dry roadway conditions. Vehicle one (V1), a 2004 Saturn Vue four door compact utility vehicle, was eastbound in lane one of a two lane, one way interstate highway. The concrete travel lanes have no curbs and are bordered by asphalt shoulders, followed by soft gravel shoulders. On the north side of the highway the gravel shoulder slopes slightly downhill, leading to an uphill grassy embankment. In V1's precrash area, the roadway has a slight uphill grade. As V1 traveled eastbound, the driver fell asleep and the vehicle began to depart its travel lane to the right. V1 crossed over the paved shoulder and departed the roadway to the right, onto the soft gravel shoulder. The driver steered left and reentered the roadway, traveled across both travel lanes, crossed the north shoulder and departed the roadway to the left. V1 traveled down the shallow slope, then climbed the embankment, and V1's front left impacted a three small trees with minor damage. V1 continued a short distance east and the front of V1 struck a cluster of vine maples, partially uprooting the cluster and causing it to tilt greater than 45 degrees. This impact caused V1 to rotate counterclockwise on the embankment, and V1 began to tip and fall over to the right. V1 completed three quarter turns before coming to final rest off the roadway, on its left side, facing northeast. V1 was towed due to damage. The case occupant is an 88 year old female, seated in the second row right seating area, who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. This passenger sustained serious injuries and was transported to an outside hospital before later being transferred to the trauma center for treatment. There were four other occupants in the vehicle, a 62 year old female driver, a 20 year old female front right passenger, a 35 year old second row left side female passenger, and a 14 year old second row center female passenger. All were restrained with the available manual lap and shoulder belts and no air bags deployed in the vehicle.