The case occupant is a 68 year old female front row right side passenger, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, who was involved in a moderate frontal impact with another vehicle. The case occupant's seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated, her frontal impact air bag and right roof side rail curtain bag deployed and she sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred on a two lane, two way north/south asphalt roadway during evening hours, with daylight, dry roads and clear weather conditions. In the area where the crash occurred, the northbound travel lane curves to the left and has an uphill grade. On both sides of the travel lanes there are paved shoulders followed by metal guardrails. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Cadillac Escalade large utility vehicle, was traveling north in the northbound lane and Vehicle 2 (V2), a 2002 Saturn SC three door coupe, was traveling south in the southbound lane. Both vehicles were negotiating the curve when V2 crossed the center lane lines and entered V1's travel lane. In an attempt to avoid striking V2, the driver of V1 braked, steered left, and traveled into the southbound lane. Then the driver of V2 returned to the southbound lane and the front of V1 impacted the front of V2, resulting in the actuation of the case occupant's seat belt retractor pretensioner and the deployment of her frontal and side curtain air bags. V1 rotated counterclockwise and came to final rest in the southbound lane, facing southwest. After the initial impact, V2 rotated clockwise and its front end impacted the west guardrail. V2 came to final rest against the guardrail, facing northwest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant in V1 is the 68 year old female front row right side passenger who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt with a seat belt retractor pretensioner actuation. Her frontal instrument panel mounted air bag and right roof side rail mounted side curtain deployed during the crash. This case occupant sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. The 74 year male driver was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt and had frontal steering column mounted and left roof side rail mounted curtain air bag deployments. He was injured in the crash and was transported to the trauma center where he was treated and released. The 24 year old male driver of V2 was fatally injured and was pronounced dead at the scene.