The case occupant is an 11 year old second row left side female passenger, wearing a manual lap/shoulder belt, who was involved in a severe non-horizontal impact during an interrupted rollover event. This occupant sustained serious injuries. There were two other occupants in the vehicle. This single vehicle crash occurred during daylight hours on a two lane, two way roadway, under cloudy weather and dry roadway conditions. In the area where the crash occurred, the one southbound lane curves to the left, is comprised of asphalt and is level. There is a grass shoulder to the west of the travel lanes, followed by a sloped embankment and sporadic trees. Vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Dodge Caliber five-door hatchback, was traveling south in lane one and was negotiating the curve when the driver lost control of the vehicle. V1 traveled into the northbound lane and began to go into a clockwise yaw. V1 reentered the southbound lane and began to depart the roadway to the right. V1's left tires dug into the dirt, causing V1 to trip and began rolling over to the left. Just as V1 began to rollover, its left side and top impacted a large tree, resulting in moderate damage. V1 rotated counterclockwise, completed one quarter turn and came to final rest on its left side, between several trees facing south. V1 was towed due to damage. The case occupant in V1, an 11 year old female in the second row left seating position, was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt and sustained serious injuries. She was transported to the trauma center for treatment and was hospitalized. The driver, seated in the front left seat, was a 35 year old male who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. He sustained fatal injuries and was declared dead on scene. There was a 6 year old male passenger in the second row right seating position. He was seated in a belt positioning no back booster seat and was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. He was injured and was taken to the trauma center where he was treated and released. There were no air bag deployments during the crash.