The case occupant is a 64 year old male front right passenger who was involved in a moderate frontal crash. This occupant was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt with a frontal air bag deployment and he sustained serious injuries. This T-intersection crash occurred during evening hours in darkness with overhead street lights, overcast weather and wet roadway conditions. In the area where the crash occurred, the roadway is comprised of two eastbound and two westbound asphalt travel lanes, with a center left-turn only lane present. The intersecting roadway consists of one north and one southbound lane, with a center raised median separating/dividing the two. There is a stop sign posted at the intersection for vehicles traveling south. The travel lanes are straight with a slight downhill grade for westbound vehicles and a slight uphill grade for eastbound vehicles. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2009 Subaru Impreza WRX four door sedan, was traveling west in the inside travel lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1992 Pontiac Sunbird GT two door coupe, was in the southbound lane, waiting to make a left turn onto V1's roadway. V2 turned left in front of V1 and the front of V1 impacted the front of V2, resulting in the deployment of V1's frontal air bags and actuation of the front row seat belt retractor pretensioners. V1 rotated counterclockwise, traveled across the eastbound lanes and came to final rest partially off the roadway, facing southwest. V2 rotated nearly 180 degrees clockwise and came to final rest near the northwest corner, facing northwest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant in V1 is a 64 year old male front right passenger who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. The top instrument panel mounted frontal air bag deployed. He sustained serious injuries and was transported to an outside hospital prior to being transferred to the trauma center. The driver of V1, a 51 year old female, was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt, with a steering column mounted frontal air bag deployment. She sustained minor injuries and her treatment status is unknown.