The case occupant is a 34 year old male driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, who was involved in a multiple event crash which included a moderate rollover event. There were no air bag deployments and he sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred in darkness with overhead street lights on a five lane, two way roadway during morning hours with foggy weather and wet roadway conditions. In the area where the crash occurred, the roadway is comprised of three east and two westbound asphalt travel lanes, separated by a curbed center median planted with scattered shrubs. The travel lanes have an uphill grade for eastbound vehicles and a downhill grade for westbound vehicles. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Toyota Tundra large pickup with an extended cab, was traveling west in the inside westbound travel lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2011 Volkswagen GTI two door hatchback, was traveling east in the inside eastbound lane. The driver of V2 noticed a deer in the roadway and slowed down, successfully avoiding striking the animal. The driver of V1 saw the deer, swerved to his right, but lost control of the vehicle and began to go into a counterclockwise rotation. V1 traveled across the westbound lanes and its right front tire impacted the center median, resulting in moderate tire/rim damage. As V1 traveled up and over the curb, V1's front left bumper impacted V2's left side, resulting in minor damage to V1. Then V1's right rear tire impacted the curb, resulting in moderate tire/rim damage. V1 began to trip and rollover to the right. V1 crossed over the eastbound lanes while completing eight quarter turns and came to final rest near the south shoulder, on its tires, facing southeast. After the initial impact between V1 and V2, V2 rotated counterclockwise and came to final rest across the eastbound travel lanes, facing north. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant in V1 is a 34 year old male driver who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. There were no air bag deployments. The driver sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center for treatment. No other occupants were in V1.