This case involved a 12 year old female who was using a manual lap/shoulder belt seated in the third row right position in a van that was involved in a severe frontal crash. She sustained moderate injuries and was airlifted to the trauma center. This single vehicle crash occurred in a dark area with no lighting on a two lane, two way residential road. The weather was clear, and the surface was dry. Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Chrysler Town and Country van was southbound on this road that first curves to the right and then curves to the left with an upgrade. During the left curve V1 departed the roadway to the right and the front of V1 struck a large tree. V1 then rotated counterclockwise down an embankment for a short distance and then had three minor impacts to other trees to the back, and right side. V1 came to final rest against these trees facing southeast. V1 was towed due to damage. The case occupant is a 12 year old female in the third row right position who was wearing the manual lap/shoulder belt. She was noted to be leaning to the left and possibly partially out of the shoulder belt. She sustained moderate injuries and was airlifted to the trauma center. There were six occupants in the van at the time of the crash. First, the driver, a 31 year old male, was restrained with the lap/shoulder belt with pretensioners actuating. In his position the front steering column mounted airbag and a knee airbag both deployed on impact. He sustained minor injuries and was transported and released from a local hospital. In the front right passenger seat was a 9 year old male who was wearing the lap/shoulder belt was treated and released at a local hospital with minor injuries. In the second row left position was seated a 6 year old female who was using a manual lap/shoulder belt and was airlifted to the trauma center as a precaution and sustained minor injuries. In the second row right position was a 3 year old male who was seated on a low back child booster seat and using the manual lap/shoulder belt. He sustained minor injuries and was transported and released at a local hospital. In the third row left position was a 10 year old female who was using a manual lap/shoulder belt and sustained minor injuries and was transported and released at a local hospital.