The case occupant is a 34 year old female driver who was involved in a head-on collision with another vehicle. This driver was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt with frontal, knee and side curtain air bag deployments and she sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred during evening hours with overhead street lights, overcast weather and wet roadway conditions. In the area where the crash occurred, the roadway is comprised of two north and two southbound asphalt travel lanes, with a center left-turn only lane available. For southbound vehicles, the travel lanes have a slight downhill grade and curve to the left. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2013 Chevrolet Cruze four door sedan, was traveling south in the inside southbound lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 1999 Honda Passport compact utility vehicle, was traveling north in the outside northbound lane. As V2 entered the curved section of roadway, it departed its lane to the left and traveled across the inner northbound lane, center turn lane and into V1's lane of travel. V1's front impacted the front of V2, resulting in the actuation of V1's driver seat belt retractor pretensioner and the deployment of the frontal, knee and left side curtain air bags. V1 rotated clockwise and came to final rest in the outer southbound lane, facing southwest. V2 rotated counterclockwise and came to final rest in the inside southbound lane, facing southwest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant in V1 is the 34 year old female driver who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. The driver's seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and her steering column mounted frontal air bag, lower left instrument panel mounted knee air bag and left roof side rail mounted curtain bag all deployed. The right roof side rail mounted curtain air bag also deployed during the crash. The case occupant sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. There were no other occupants in V1.