This 27-year-old female (157cm/50kg, 5'2"/110 lbs) was the front right passenger of a 2012 Subaru Impreza four door sedan that was involved in a severe frontal impact. She was wearing the manual lap/shoulder seatbelt and on impact the belt pretensioners actuated and the instrument panel mounted airbag deployed. The principal direction of force was 12 o'clock and the damage was a frontal offset that caused some counterclockwise rotation of the vehicle at impact. On impact her body moved forward and slightly to the left due to the rotation of the vehicle. The center instrument panel also intruded 24 cm/10inches. Her torso loaded the seatbelt with loading marks documented on the webbing and latch plate. The left knee contacted and deformed the glove box as her left hip contacted the center console, causing lateral deformation and cracking. Her left hand and forearm contacted and deformed the center instrument panel. Her face then contacted the top of the center instrument panel that was cracked and also had a large amount of hair and skin embedded in it. This patient suffered multiple injuries including a severe traumatic brain injury with left SDH, bilateral SAH, and a right temporal contusion, multiple facial fractures, a comminuted left radial and ulnar fractures, right clavicle fracture, bilateral pulmonary contusions, Liver laceration, and a pelvic fracture involving the left acetabulum and right pubic bone and an L2 transverse process fracture. The brain and facial injuries were all attributed to striking the head and face against the center instrument panel, which had significant intrusion. The clavicle fracture, pulmonary contusions and liver laceration were all attributed to compression from the seat belts. The pelvic fracture was attributed to lateral compression of the hip against the center console with a second possible scenario of a knee-thigh-hip load from compression with the glove box. The left radial/ulnar fractures were also attributed to compression against the center instrument panel.