This far-side impact crash case involves a 39 year old female driver, restrained with a manual lap/shoulder belt, with frontal, side impact and side curtain air bag deployments and who sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred in the intersection of a freeway off-ramp and a city street, with traffic signals present for all lanes. At the time of the crash there were cloudy weather conditions, dry roadways and it was dark with overhead street lights. The southbound, one-way freeway off-ramp consists of two asphalt travel lanes with a downhill grade. The two way intersecting roadway runs east-west and consists of six level asphalt travel lanes. The case vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Volkswagen Jetta four door sedan, was traveling south in lane two of the freeway off ramp. Vehicle 2 (V2), a 2011 Ford Crown Victoria Police Interceptor four door sedan, was traveling east in lane three of the intersecting street. V1 and V2 entered the intersection and the front of V2 impacted the right side of V1, resulting in the deployment of V1's driver's frontal air bag and right side curtain bag. V1 and V2 rotated clockwise towards the southeastern corner of the intersection. V1's left sill and tires impacted the curb, resulting in the deployment of the driver's side impact air bag and left side curtain. This impact caused V1 to become partially airborne as it continued to rotate clockwise. Then V1's left rear undercarriage impacted a retaining wall off the roadway, adjacent to a sidewalk, resulting in moderate damage. This undercarriage impact tilted V1 and it rolled one quarter turn to the right. V1 came to final rest on its right side, with its front half on the roadway and its back half on the sidewalk. After the first impact between V1 and V2, V2 rotated clockwise and its left rear struck an impact attenuator located near the southeast corner of the intersection. V2 continued a short distance and came to final rest in lane one, facing north. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant is the 39 year old female driver of V1 who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. Her steering column mounted frontal, outboard seat back mounted side impact and left roof side rail mounted curtain air bags all deployed during the crash. She sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. There were no other occupants in the vehicle. The driver of V2 was also injured, but his treatment status is unknown.