This far side crash case involves a 84 year old restrained female with deployed air bag who sustained serious injury . The crash occurred during daylight hours in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred on a level eight-lane, three northbound lanes with right and left turn lanes seperated by a raised median with three southbound lanes also with right and left turn lanes. This collision occurred within the controlled four-leg intersection with traffic signals working properly. The case vehicle (V1) a 2004 four-door Toyota Camry was being driven northbound in the left turn lane and vehicle two (V2) a 1999 four-door Mercedes Benz C230 was being driven southbound in the far right lane. The crash occurred when V1 attempted to execute a left turn directly in front of V2 resulting in a right side impact to our case vehicle by the front of V2. After initial impact, V1 rotated counterclockwise and V2 rotated clockwise causing both vehicles to side slap. V1 continued on southbound traveling to final rest just south of the intersection facing south in southbound lane. V2 continued on in a southeast direction before traveling to final rest off the roadway. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage. V1 was being driven by the 84 year old female case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor pretensioner did actuate). The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed as a result of the impact. The driver's seatback mounted air bag and the roof side rail air bag did not deploy. The case occupant was seriously injured and transported to a level 1 trauma by ground transportation. There was also a 12 year old male front right seat passenger who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor pretensioner did actuate). The available instrument panel mounted air bag deployed as a result of the impact. The passenger seatback mounted air bag and the roof side rail air bag did not deploy. This occupant was transported to a local hospital by ground transportation but was released on the same day.