This crash occurred in a 3-legged urban intersection. The main leg of the intersection is situated in a north to south configuration and is comprised of two lanes. The intersecting roadway enters from the east and is comprised of two lanes. The westbound traffic is controlled by a stop sign. At the time of the crash it was daylight the weather was clear and the road surface was dry. Traffic for that time of the day can be moderate to heavy as it is a commercial area. Involved in the crash was the case vehicle (V1) a 2003 Volvo S60 4-door sedan equipped with 3-point manual restraints for each seating position. All the manual restraints are equipped with pre-tensioners. The two front seat restraint pre-tensioners did not activate, while the three rear seat restraint pre-tensioners did activate. In addition V1 is also equipped with a driver and right passenger frontal impact air bags, both of which, deployed in the crash. V1 is also equipped with front seat mounted side impact air bags, as well as roof side rail mounted curtains for the front and rear seating area. None of the side impact air bags or curtains deployed. V1 was occupied by the driver a 49-year-old female. She was not using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. The right front seat was occupied by a 59-year-old female. She was also not using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. Also involved in the crash was the Principal Other Vehicle (POV) (V2) a 2003 Jaguar X type sedan. V1 was traveling in a southerly direction in the proper lane. V2 was traveling in a northerly direction in the proper lane. The driver of V2 intended to turn left and depart the intersection in an westerly direction. As V1 approached the intersection, V2 turned left, directly across the path of the case vehicle. The front of V1 struck V2 in the right front corner. After the impact V1 rotated in a clockwise direction and came to final rest facing in a northwesterly direction. V2 rotated in a counterclockwise direction and came to final rest facing in a westerly direction. The driver of V1 did not loose consciousness in the crash and was awake when the paramedics arrived. The LF Door was jammed shut and the driver needed to be extricated from the vehicle. She was transported to the trauma center via helicopter. The RF Passenger of V2 did not loose consciousness in the crash and was awake when the paramedics arrived. The RF door was able to be opened and the RF passenger was removed from the vehicle before the driver. She was also transported to the trauma center via helicopter. Both occupants in V1 were enrolled as case occupants.