Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 38-year old, female driver (case occupant), of a 2010 Mazda 3, 4-door hatchback, which was involved in a severe, head-on impact with a 1999 Ford Taurus station wagon. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours (dusk), of a summer weekday, on a curved, two-lane bituminous roadway. This roadway runs east and west and has a negative downhill grade for the eastbound travel direction. Leading into the crash area, the eastbound travel direction has long, sweeping right-handed curve, eventually straightening out just east of the crash area. The speed limit for this roadway is 50 mph (80 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The 38-year old female case occupant was operating Vehicle 1, the 2010 Mazda 3, 4-door hatchback, in the westbound travel lane. She was traveling in the straight portion of the roadway, approaching the curved section (crash area) roadway. She was utilizing a 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with pretensioner) and the vehicle was noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, seat back mounted side air bags (outboard, 1st row seats) and roof side rail curtains. Vehicle 2, a 1999 Ford Taurus station wagon, was traveling eastbound, on the curved section of the roadway. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to negotiate the right-handed curve and continue traveling east. Crash: As Vehicle 2 traveled east, negotiating the right-handed curve, it entered the westbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1, seeing the approach of Vehicle 2, tried to brake and steer left, but was unsuccessful. The frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 in a head-on type collision. Vehicle 1 rotated slightly counterclockwise and came to rest mostly in the westbound travel lane, facing a southwesterly direction. Vehicle 2 rotated slightly clockwise and came to rest in the westbound travel lane, facing an easterly direction. As a result of the impact between the two vehicles, the driver's advanced frontal air bag deployed for Vehicle 1 and the driver's belt pretension actuated. Post-Crash: The 38-year old driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center, by air, and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was also transported by air, to the local trauma center with non-incapacitating injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the crash scene due to damage sustained in the crash.