Case Focus: The case occupant is a 74-year old, male driver, of a 2007 Buick Lucerne 4-door sedan, which was involved in a moderate, left side impact (near side), with the frontal plane of a 1999 Dodge Ram van (large cargo van). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight), of a fall weekday, at the intersection of a two-lane, east/west roadway and a three-lane, north/south roadway. The roadway surfaces were dry at the time of the crash. The posted speed limit, for the east/west roadway, was 48 km/h (30 mph), while the north/south roadway had a speed limit of 80 km/h (50 mph). The 74-year old male case occupant was driving Vehicle 1, the 2007 Buick Lucerne 4-door sedan. He was restrained by a 3-point lap/shoulder belt and had the benefit of a seat back mounted, side impact torso air bag, as well as a roof side rail mounted, side curtain. Vehicle 1 was stopped, in the eastbound travel lane, of the west leg of the intersection. Vehicle 2, a 1999 Dodge Ram van (large cargo van) was traveling southbound, approaching the intersection from the north. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 in a right angle type collision. After impact, both vehicles traveled towards the southeast corner of the intersection where they came to rest. As a result of this impact, Vehicle 1's roof side rail mounted, side curtains deployed, as did the driver's seat back mounted, side impact torso air bag. Post-Crash: Emergency medical services personnel (EMS) responded to the scene and subsequently removed the driver's door panel and removed the driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant). He was transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center and hospitalized with moderate to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured and was not transported from the scene. Both vehicles were towed from the scene, with Vehicle 1 being towed due to damage sustained in the crash.