Case Focus: The case occupants are an 83-year old, male driver and an 81-year old, right front, female passenger, of a 2005 Buick Park Avenue 4-door sedan, which was involved in a severe, off-set frontal impact with a bridge/overpass support pillar. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight), of summer weekday, on the eastbound side, of an east/west trafficway. This eastbound roadway consists of three travel lanes and is separated from the westbound travel lanes by a grass median. Prior to the crash area, the eastbound roadway has a greater than 2% positive grade, but at the area of the crash the roadway becomes level (hillcrest). At the crash area, guardrails are present on the north and south sides of the median providing protection for several large, concrete support pillars, which support a north/south overpass/bridge. The weather was clear and the roadway/roadside surfaces were dry. The posted speed limit was 105 km/h (65 mph). An 83-year old male driver (case occupant 1) was driving Vehicle 1, the 2005 Buick Park Avenue 4-door sedan, eastbound. An 81-year old female (case occupant 2) occupied the right front seating position. Both occupants were restrained by their respective 3-point, lap/shoulder belts and had the benefit of frontal impact air bags (driver and passenger), both of which deployed as a result of the crash. Crash: For unknown reasons (suspected preceding medical condition), Vehicle 1 departed the roadway to the left and entered the grass median just prior to the start of the south side guardrail. Vehicle 1 continued traveling eastbound, in the center median, between the guardrails, and eventually struck the western most concrete support pillar with its frontal plane (front left). Vehicle 1 pivoted approximately 45 degrees counterclockwise about the pillar and struck the south guardrail with its right rear corner (minor impact) before coming to rest, facing a northeasterly direction. As result of the impact, both frontal impact air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver died at the scene due to injuries sustained from the crash. The right front female passenger was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital and hospitalized for 2 days, with minor to severe injuries, before being transported, by air unit, to a local trauma center (CIREN) with hospitalization continued. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.