Case Focus: The focus of this case is on two drivers involved in a head-on collision. Case occupant 1 is a 22-year old male driver of a 2003 Acura RSX (Vehicle 1). Case occupant 2 is a 43-year old female driver of a 2004 Toyota Celica (Vehicle 2). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight), of fall weekday, at the intersection of a three lane, north/south roadway and a three lane, east/west roadway. The east/west roadway intersects the north/south roadway on the west side and forms a "T-type" intersection. The north/south roadway curves from right-to-left as it enters the intersection from the north. The bituminous roadway surfaces were reportedly wet at the time of the crash. The posted speed limit, for the north/south roadway, was 64 km/h (40 mph). Case occupant 1, the 22-year old male driver, was operating Vehicle 1, a 2003 Acura RSX 2-door hatchback, in the left northbound travel lane (two northbound lanes present), approaching the intersection from the south. He was not utilizing an available 3-point lap/shoulder belt, but did have the benefit of a frontal impact air bag, which deployed as a result of the crash. Case occupant 1 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling westbound. Case occupant 2, the 43-year old female driver, was operating Vehicle 2, a 2004 Toyota Celica 2-door hatchback, in the southbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the north. Occupying the right front seating position was a 14-year old female passenger. Both occupants were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts and had the benefit of frontal impact air bags, both of which deployed as a result of the crash. Case occupant 2 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling southbound. Crash: Vehicle 1 (left turn) and Vehicle 2 entered the intersection at the same time. Vehicle 2's frontal plane impacted the frontal plane of Vehicle 1. Vehicle 1 was rotated somewhat counterclockwise and came to rest in the intersection. Vehicle 2 was redirected towards the southwest corner of the intersection where it came to rest against the curb. As a result of this impact the frontal air bags, for all occupants of both vehicles, deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant 1) was transported to a local trauma center (CIREN) and hospitalized with multiple, moderate to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 (case occupant 2) was also transported to the local trauma center (CIREN) and hospitalized with moderate to serious injuries. The 14-year old female passenger of Vehicle 2 was transported to a local hospital, treated and released with minor injuries. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.