Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 54-year old, male driver (case occupant), of a 2004 Toyota Matrix 4-door hatchback, which was involved in a moderate, frontal impact, with a utility pole. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the early morning hours (dark), of a summer weekday, on a north/south roadway, leading into a large intersection area (intersection did not play a part in the crash). This bituminous roadway consists of two northbound lanes and one southbound lane. Heading north and just prior to the intersection area, the roadway curves left and the northbound travel lanes are divided from the southbound travel lanes, by a curbed, grass median. At this location, the northbound travel direction opens up to four travel lanes as it approaches the intersection from the south, and all roadway edges become curbed. The posted speed limit is 40 mph (64 km/h). At the time of the crash, the roadway surface was dry and the weather was clear. The 54-year old male case occupant was operating Vehicle 1, the 2004 Toyota Matrix 4-door hatchback, in the left northbound travel lane, approaching the area of division. He was not utilizing a 3-point lap/shoulder belt (with pretensioner), but the vehicle was equipped with redesigned frontal impact air bags and seat back mounted, side impact airbags. Crash: Vehicle 1 departed the left side of the roadway, at the beginning of the curbed, grass median (roadway division area). The driver of Vehicle 1 steered right, but subsequently "jumped" the curbed right edge of the roadway (southern edge). At this time, Vehicle 1's frontal plane struck a 36 cm diameter utility pole. Vehicle 1 rotated slightly counterclockwise and came to rest, on the south roadside, facing a northerly direction. As a result of the impact with the pole, Vehicle 1's frontal impact air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The 54-year old driver of Vehicle 1 was able to self-extricate himself from the vehicle and was eventually transported to a local trauma center and hospitalized for 1 day with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene as a result of damage sustained in the crash.