This crash occurred on a divided city trafficway. The trafficway on which the crash occurred is situated in an east-to-west configuration. The crash occurred in the early morning. At the time of the crash it was dark and the streetlights were lit. The weather was clear and the roadway was dry. At that time of the morning traffic is light. Involved in the crash was the case vehicle (V1) a 2003 Mitsubishi Eclipse 2-door coupe equipped with 3-point lap and shoulder restraints for each of the 4 seating positions. In addition to the manual restraints, V1 is also equipped with a driver and right passenger frontal impact air bags as well as seat-mounted side impact air bags. The driver and right passenger frontal impact air bags did not deploy in the crash. The driver's seat-mounted air bag did deploy. The driver of V1 was a 19-year-old male. He was using the available 3-point manual restraint at the time of the crash. V1 was traveling in a westerly direction in the third lane. For an unknown reason the driver of the case vehicle (V1) lost control of the vehicle and it started to rotate in a clockwise direction. V1 slid laterally in a northwesterly direction as it continued rotating in a clockwise direction. V1 struck and mounted the north curb with the left front wheel. When V1 struck and mounted the curb it departed the roadway leading with the left side. At that time V1 struck a pay phone that was mounted on a stand. This impact was to the back plane of V1. This impact uprooted the pay phone stand and V1 continued sliding laterally, leading with the left side. After V1 struck the pay phone the left front wheel struck the edge of a concrete porch which is located at a store front. As the left front wheel was striking the porch, the left passenger area struck a steel non-breakaway pole. This impact V1 to rotate clockwise and V1's left rear corner struck the concrete porch as well as the blue steel railing on the top of the porch. V1 continued rotating in a clockwise direction as it came to final rest. During the last portion of the rotation, after the let rear impact, V1 struck a small shrub. There was no residual damage to the shrub and no damage on the vehicle from this contact. As a result the shrubbery contact was not documented as an event. The driver's head was ejected out the left front window at impact with the steel pole. The driver struck the pole with the left side of his head. The driver of V1 lost consciousness in the crash. He was removed from V1 by the paramedics and transported to the trauma center via ambulance. He was still unconscious at the time of admission.