This crash occurred on a divided city trafficway. The trafficway is situated in a north to south configuration and consists of 3 northbound and 3 southbound lanes. The roadways are separated by a grass and tree covered median that is otherwise without a positive barrier. At the time of the crash it was dark and the streetlights were lit. Traffic for that time of the day can be moderate to heavy. The weather was clear and the road surface was dry. Involved in the crash was the case vehicle (V1) a 1998 Toyota Tacoma pickup truck equipped with 3-point manual lap and shoulder restraints for each outboard seating position. In addition to the manual restraints, V1 is also equipped with a driver and right passenger frontal impact air bags, both of which deployed in the crash. The driver of the case vehicle was a 50-year-old male. He was not using the available manual restraints at the time of the crash. Also involved in the crash was V2, a 1989 Mazda MPV minivan. At impact, the driver moved forward with respect to the decelerating vehicle and in a path consistent with the 12 o'clock Principal Direction of Force (PDOF) impact acting on the case vehicle. The driver was unrestrained at the time of the crash and the frontal impact air bags deployed in the crash. The driver was contacted in the chest by the deploying air bag. As a result of the contact, the driver sustained an intimal tear of the thoracic aorta. The driver loaded the top half of the steering wheel rim and sustained a contusion to the esophagus. The driver also loaded the lower steering wheel rim with his abdomen. The lower rim was pushed upwards 3-cm from the loading. As a result of the abdominal compression and loading the driver sustained a grade 5 liver laceration. He also sustained a contusion to the diaphragm as well as the stomach and spleen. In addition to the internal organ injuries, the driver also sustained a fracture to the anterior of the 7th right rib. The driver also contacted and loaded the knee bolster with his lower extremities. The left knee contacted and loaded the left portion of the knee bolster. As a result of the contact the driver sustained an abrasion to the anterior left knee. The driver was transported to the trauma center via ground ambulance. The driver was admitted to the trauma center and expired in surgery approximately 11 hours after the crash.