This crash occurred on a limited access rural trafficway. The trafficway is situated in a north to south configuration and is on a slight uphill slope that curves to the right. The southbound lanes are bordered by a grass center median without a positive barrier to the left and a paved shoulder and guardrail to the right. At the time of the crash it was early morning and the roadway was dark without any streetlights in the area. The weather was clear and the road surface was dry. Traffic for that time of the day is light. Involved in the crash was the case vehicle (V1) a 2000 Dodge Dakota SLT pickup truck equipped with 3-point lap and shoulder restraints for each outboard seating position. In addition to the manual restraints the case vehicle (V1) is also equipped with a driver and right passenger frontal impact air bags, neither of which, deployed in the crash. The driver of the case vehicle (V1) was a 24-year-old male. He was using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. The case vehicle (V1) was traveling in a southerly direction in the second lane. As the case vehicle (V1) progressed in a southerly direction the driver reportedly fell asleep and the case vehicle drove off the left side of the roadway and entered the grass median. This woke up the driver of the case vehicle (V1) and he swerved to the right in an attempt to reenter the southbound lanes of the trafficway. When the case vehicle (V1) reentered the roadway it started to rotate in a clockwise direction as it slid laterally leading with the left side. The case vehicle (V1) slid across the southbound lanes and departed the roadway on the right shoulder, leading with the left side. At that time the case vehicle (V1) struck the W beam guardrail with the left side. This impact caused the case vehicle (V1) to rebound off the guardrail and continue to rotate in a clockwise direction as it began to rollover the guardrail. The case vehicle (V1) struck the guardrail with the right side as it was rolling and then onto the roof structure where it came to final rest. At final rest the case vehicle (V1) was on its roof, on top the guardrail, facing in an easterly direction. The driver of the case vehicle did not lose consciousness in the crash. He was found by the paramedics inside the vehicle and he had to be extricated. He was transported to the trauma center via helicopter.