This crash occurred on a multi-lane divided urban trafficway. The trafficway is situated in an east to west configuration. There are three eastbound lanes and three westbound lanes. They are separated by a raised concrete median without a positive barrier. In addition to the through lanes there is also a dedicated left turn lane for each of the roadways. At the time of the crash it was dark but the street lights were lit. The weather was clear and the road surface was dry. Traffic for that time of the evening is moderate to light. Involved in the crash was the case vehicle (V1) a 2004 Honda Accord 4-door sedan equipped with manual, 3-point lap and shoulder restraints for each seating position. In addition to the manual restraints V1 is also equipped with a driver and right passenger frontal impact air bags, both of which deployed in the crash. The driver and lone occupant of V1 was a 29-year-old male. He was not using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. Also involved in the crash was the Principal Other Vehicle (POV) (V2) a 1994 Honda Passport sport utility vehicle. Stopped in front of V2 was another vehicle, however there was no contact with this vehicle and it was not evaluated in this report. V2 was stopped behind another vehicle at a red light. Both V2 and the other non-contact vehicle were in the first lane. V1 was traveling in a westerly direction in the first lane. As V1 approached V2 the driver of V1 realized that V2 was stopped. The driver of V1 applied the brakes in an attempt to avoid an impact. V1 could not stop in time and it struck V2 in the rear end. The impact into the rear of V2 deployed the case vehicle's frontal impact air bags. At impact, V2 was pushed forward however it did not contact the stopped vehicle in front of it. At impact, V1 also moved forward to its final rest position in the middle of the first lane facing in a westerly direction. The driver of V1 did not loose consciousness in the crash. Upon arrival the paramedics found the driver sitting in the driver seat of the case vehicle. He was not entrapped however he could not exit the vehicle due to his lower extremity injury. He was removed from the case vehicle by the paramedics and transported to the trauma center via helicopter.