This crash occurred on a multi-lane divided urban trafficway. The trafficway is situated in a north to south configuration and is comprised of 4 through lanes in each direction separated by a raised grass median without a positive barrier. The southbound direction of travel also has a dedicated left turn lane. The raised grass median is covered by small flowering shrubs and palm trees planted down the center of the median. At the time of the crash it was daylight, the weather was clear and the road surface was dry. Traffic for that time of the day is usually heavy. Involved in the crash was the case vehicle (V1) a 1998 Mitsubishi Montero 4-door sport utility vehicle equipped with manual 3-point lap and shoulder restraints for each outboard seating position. In addition to the manual restraints, the case vehicle is also equipped with a driver and right passenger frontal impact air bags, neither of which deployed in the crash. The driver and lone occupant of the case vehicle was a 24-year-old female. She was not using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. Also involved in the crash were 2 other vehicles. Principal Other Vehicle (POV) 1 (V2) was a 2001 BMW X5 station wagon and POV 2 (V3) was a 1999 Chevrolet Astro Van. Neither of the POVs were available for inspection. The driver of the case vehicle struck her head and lost consciousness in the crash. She was awake upon arrival of the paramedics. She was removed from the vehicle and transported to a local hospital via ground ambulance. She was later transferred to the trauma center via ground ambulance. All three vehicles were traveling in a northerly direction. POV 1 (V2) was in the easternmost lane. The case vehicle was in the second lane next to POV 1 (V2). POV 2 (V3) was in the third lane along side the case vehicle. As the three vehicles proceeded north, the case vehicle changed lanes to the right. The right front fender of the case vehicle struck the left side of POV 1 (V2). After this impact, the driver of the case vehicle veered to the left, and the right rear of the case vehicle struck the left side of POV 1 (V2) in a side slap impact. The case vehicle and POV 1 (V2) separated after the side slap impact and the case vehicle crossed the second northbound lane and entered the third northbound lane. At that time POV 2 (V3) struck the case vehicle in the left rear corner in a glancing sideswipe type impact. The case vehicle continued traveling in a northwesterly direction and departed the northbound lanes of traffic at the center median. The case vehicle continued northwest across the median striking the small flowering shrubs and then striking a palm tree located in the center of the median. The impact to the case vehicle was to the left side near the left rear suspension. After this impact, the case vehicle rotated in a counterclockwise direction and came to final rest with the left side of the vehicle still engaged with the palm tree.