This crash occurred on a two-lane federal highway. The trafficway is situated in a north to south configuration and is comprised of one travel lane in each direction. The trafficway is bordered on each side by a paved shoulder and then a grass berm which extends to the edge of the everglades. At the time of the crash it was early morning and dark, no street lights were present in the area. It was raining and the road surface was wet. At the time of the crash the area was under a hurricane evacuation notice and traffic in both directions was moderate. Involved in the crash was the case vehicle (V1) a 2000 Honda CRV 4-door sport utility vehicle equipped with manual 3-point lap and shoulder restraints for each outboard seating position. In addition to the manual restraints the case vehicle (V1) was also equipped with a driver and right passenger frontal impact air bags, both of which deployed in the crash. The driver of the case vehicle (V1) was a 61-year-old male. He was using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. The right front seat was occupied by the wife of the driver, a 51-year-old female. She was also using the available manual restraint at the time of the crash. There were 2 other vehicles involved in the crash. Principal Other Vehicle 1 (POV 1) (V2) was a 1995 Kenworth tractor pulling a semi trailer. POV 2 (V3) was a 1998 Toyota Camry. V3 did not make contact wirh V1. V3 was traveling in a southerly direction in the proper lane. V2 was also traveling in a southerly direction in the proper lane, following V3. V1 was traveling in a northerly direction in the proper lane. As V3 was traveling south the driver had to slow down due to the traffic and weather conditions. At that time V3 was struck in the rear end by V2. After this impact V2 jackknifed and crossed the centerline into the northbound travel lane. Subsequently V2 was struck in the right saddle tank area by the front of V1. After the impact, V1 was pushed rearward as it began to rotate in a counterclockwise direction. V1 rotated approximately 90 degrees and came to final rest in the grass berm which borders the east side of the roadway. V1 was facing in a westerly direction at final rest. Neither the driver nor the right front passenger lost consciousness in the crash. The driver and right passenger were found inside V1 by the paramedics. They were removed from the vehicle and transported together to the trauma center via helicopter.