This crash occurred in a 4-legged urban intersection. The main leg of the intersection is situated in a north to south configuration and is comprised of 4 through lanes and a two-way dedicated left turn lane. The main leg of the intersection is uncontrolled. The cross street is situated in an east to west configuration and is comprised of 1 through lane in each direction. This leg of the intersection is controlled by a stop sign, which was present and operational. At the time of the crash it was daylight, the weather was clear and the road surface was dry. Traffic for that time of day can be moderate to heavy. Involved in the crash was the case vehicle (V1) a 1998 Mercury Tracer 4-door sedan, equipped with manual 3-point lap and shoulder restraints for each outboard seating position. In addition to the manual restraints, the case vehicle is also equipped with a driver and right passenger frontal impact air bags, both of which deployed in the crash. The driver and lone occupant of the case vehicle was a 53-year-old female. She was not using the available manual restraints at the time of the crash. There were 2 other vehicles involved in the crash. Principal Other Vehicle 1 (POV1) (V2) was a 1987 Mack straight truck. POV 2 (V3) was a 1997 Pontiac Grand Am 4-door sedan. The driver of the case vehicle struck her head and briefly lost consciousness. She was awake upon arrival of the paramedics. The left side doors were jammed shut but the driver was not otherwise physically entrapped. She was removed from the case vehicle by the paramedics and transported to the trauma center via ground ambulance. The case vehicle (V1) was traveling in a southerly direction in the westernmost southbound lane. POV 2 (V3) was traveling in a southerly direction in the second lane. POV 2 (V3) was slightly ahead of and to the left of the case vehicle. POV 1 (V2) was traveling in a northerly direction in the left turn lane. The driver of V2 intended to turn left and depart the intersection in a westerly direction. As the case vehicle and V3 continued south, V2 began the left turn. The front of V2 struck the left side of V3 (event #1). This impact caused V3 to rotate counterclockwise and it came to final rest in the middle of the southbound lanes facing in an easterly direction. After V2 struck V3 it continued forward in a northwesterly direction and struck the case vehicle in the left side (event #2). The left front wheel of V2 rode up into the left side of the case vehicle as it crushed down the left side of the vehicle. The case vehicle's left "A" pillar, left roof side rail and left roof structure were all crushed downward from the impact with V2. The impact also caused V2 to roll over onto its right side (event #3) as it continued to move in a northwesterly direction. V2 slid on its right side and crashed through a chain link fence (event #4) and came to final rest in the front yard of a local residence. After the impact with V2, the case vehicle rotated slightly counterclockwise and came to final rest in the middle of the southbound lanes facing in a south-southeasterly direction.