This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unbelted, 18-year-old, female, right front passenger with a deployed airbag. This occupant sustained severe injuries in a multi-event crash with an opposing vehicle and a tree. The case vehicle was a compact coupe which struck the back of a mid-size crossover utility vehicle with its front. The case vehicle then struck a 25 cm diameter tree with its front. The case vehicle was also occupied by an 18-year-old, belted, male driver with a deployed airbag. He was reported to have minor injuries by police. The right rear seat was occupied by an unbelted, 18-year-old, male who was uninjured according to police. The crash occurred early afternoon in clear weather on a dry roadway. A 2006 Chevrolet Cobalt coupe (V1) was traveling north approaching an intersection on a two-lane, two-way, suburban roadway. A 2008 Kia Sorento utility vehicle (V2) was stopped in traffic facing north on the same roadway. The grade for both vehicles was 5% downhill. The front of V1 impacted the back of V2 while it was stopped in the roadway (Event 1). After impact, V1 departed the right side of the roadway. After traveling approximately 20 meters off the roadway, V1 impacted a 25 cm diameter tree (Event 2), coming to rest at the point of impact. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. V1 was occupied by an 18-year-old, female, right front, case occupant. She was unbelted with a retractor pretensioner actuated in the unused position. The right top instrument panel airbag and the steering wheel hub airbag deployed. No other airbags were installed. This occupant was transported to a local hospital by ground ambulance before being transferred to a trauma center for treatment of severe injuries. The case vehicle was also occupied by an 18-year-old, belted, male driver with a deployed steering wheel hub airbag. He was reported to have minor injuries by police. The right rear seat was occupied by an unbelted, 18-year-old, male who was uninjured according to police. This unrestrained occupant deformed the right front seatback during the crash events.