This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 21-year-old female belted driver of a 2007 Honda Civic intermediate size sedan with deployed front and side airbags. She sustained moderate injuries in a multi-event crash with several bushes, trees, a chain-link fence, and the ground. The crash occurred during early afternoon hours on a dry road under clear skies. A 2007 Honda Civic intermediate size sedan (Vehicle 1) was traveling west on a rural road negotiating a left curve. The bituminous two-way, two-lane road had a hillcrest in the crash approach area and a warning sign of a curve ahead with a suggested travel speed of 56 km/h (35 mph). While negotiating the left curve, V1 began to yaw counterclockwise and departed the road to the right. V1 knocked down four bushes with its right plane (Event 1) and then continued in a yaw leading with its right plane across a small field. V1 then struck a 10 cm diameter tree with its right rear quarter-panel (Event 2). V1 then immediately struck a 25 cm diameter tree in the same location of the right plane (Event 3). This second tree sheared at the base and continued with V1 as it struck a chain-link fence with its entire right plane (Event 4). The combination of the detached tree and the tilted fence created a ramp-like structure. This ramp-like structure initiated a four quarter-turn rollover towards the right (Event 5). V1 struck the ground with both its right front corner and rear undercarriage during the rollover. Just as V1 completed one full turn, the right front fender struck a large tree 65 cm in diameter (Event 6). V1 rotated counterclockwise 45 degrees, coming to rest upright in a residential backyard facing south. V1 was towed due to damage, which was severe. The 21-year-old female driver was belted. Both the buckle and retractor pretensioner were actuated. The vehicle was not equipped with an anchor pretensioner. The driver's steering wheel hub, left outboard seatback, and left curtain airbags were deployed. The driver was transported to a local trauma center for treatment of moderate injuries sustained in the crash. The case vehicle was also occupied by a 20-year-old female right front belted occupant who suffered police-reported non-incapacitating injuries. Her instrument panel, right outboard seatback, and right curtain airbags were deployed. She was transported to a local trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment.