This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 75-year-old male belted driver with a deployed frontal airbag who sustained severe injuries. The investigation also focused on a 51-year-old female right front belted passenger with a deployed airbag who suffered serious injuries. The case vehicle was a 2006 Toyota Prius 5-door intermediate hatchback which collided head-on with a large sedan and then a ditch. The crash occurred in the early evening daylight hours on a dry road in clear weather. A 2006 Toyota Prius 5-door intermediate hatchback (V1) was negotiating a right curve on a two-way two-lane rural bituminous road heading southwest. There was a 3% uphill grade in this direction of travel. V1 was followed by V3, a 1999 Chevrolet Astro Cargo minivan. A 2007 Chrysler 300 large sedan (V2) was traveling in the opposite direction on the same road. V1 successfully negotiated the right curve and entered a straight section of road. The oncoming V2 crossed the center line and collided head-on with V1 (Event 1). V1 then rotated counterclockwise approximately 220 degrees, traveling backwards and off the near shoulder before impacting a ditch with its undercarriage (Event 2). V1 came to rest in the northwest roadside. V2 continued in the oncoming lane of travel and impacted V3 head-on (Event 3). V2 and V3 came to rest on the road. All three vehicles were towed due to damage. V1 was driven by a 75-year-old male case occupant. He was belted with an actuated retractor pretensioner. Buckle and anchor pretensioners were not installed on this vehicle. His steering wheel hub airbag deployed as did the passenger's frontal airbag. The available outboard seat back and curtain airbags did not deploy. He was transported to a local trauma center where he was treated for severe injuries. The right front seat was occupied by a 51-year-old female case occupant. She was also belted with an actuated retractor pretensioner. Airbag deployments for her occupant position included only the top instrument panel airbag. Her available outboard seat back and curtain airbags did not deploy. She was transported to a local trauma center where she was treated for serious injuries.