This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 23-year-old male right front belted passenger with deployed front and side airbags. This occupant was riding in an intermediate-size sedan when he sustained serious injuries in a head-on offset frontal crash with a full-size sedan. The case vehicle was driven by a 21-year-old belted male. He suffered non-incapacitating injuries and was transported to a local hospital for treatment. The case vehicle was also occupied by a 2nd row middle seat adult occupant of unknown age. He was unbelted and transported to a trauma center with non-incapacitating injuries. The crash occurred during early morning daylight hours on a dry road. A 2013 Honda Civic sedan (V1) was traveling north negotiating a left curve of minimal uphill grade approaching an intersection. A 2007 Toyota Camry sedan (V2) was stopped facing west at that intersection waiting to turn left. The intersection was controlled by stop signs for the east and west travel directions. The north and south travel directions were not controlled. V2 entered the intersection intending to turn left across the path of V1. V1 first steered left then right in an attempt to avoid colliding with V2. V1 also braked in avoidance without skidding. The front of V1 impacted the front of V2 in a full frontal configuration (Event 1). V1 was pushed back while rotating counterclockwise. The right rear plane of V1 sideswiped the left front of V2 (Event 2) with minor damage. Both vehicles came to rest in the intersection and were towed due to damage. The case occupant is the 23-year-old male right front passenger. He was wearing his lap and shoulder belt at the time of the crash. The retractor pretensioner was actuated. There were no buckle or anchor pretensioners installed. All of the installed airbags deployed in the crash, including the steering wheel hub, right top instrument panel, both outboard seatbacks, and both curtain airbags. This occupant was transported to a trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of serious injuries.