This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of two occupants in a single vehicle crash. V1 was a compact utility vehicle involved in a left plane impact to a medium-sized tree trunk. The first case occupant was a 73-year-old male belted driver with deployed frontal airbags who sustained serious injuries. The second case occupant was a 71-year-old female belted second row left passenger with no deployed airbags. She sustained moderate injuries in the crash. The crash occurred at midday on a dry road under clear skies. A 2014 Kia Sportage compact utility vehicle (Vehicle 1) was traveling south negotiating a left curve on a two-lane rural road. The bituminous road was on a 7% uphill grade with 2% superelevation in the curve. V1 was initially traveling in the right lane when it crossed the centerline and then departed the left side of the road. The left front plane of V1 struck a tree trunk (Event 1), bringing the vehicle to final rest against the tree. The impact began just outside the left front bumper corner and pushed the left front axle back. V1 was towed due to damage. The 73-year-old male driver was belted at the time of the crash as evidenced by payout to the belt webbing. The driver's retractor and anchor pretensioners did not show signs of actuation, although the right front passenger's pretensioners were actuated. There was no buckle pretensioner installed for the driver. The steering wheel hub and right top instrument panel airbags deployed during the crash. The available curtain and first row seatback airbags did not deploy. No other airbags were installed. This occupant was transported to a hospital before being transferred to a trauma center for treatment of serious injuries. The 71-year-old female second row left passenger was belted at the time of the crash as evidenced by payout to the belt webbing. No pretensioners were installed for her second row seat position. The available curtain airbag did not deploy. No other airbags were installed for this position. This occupant was transported to a hospital before being transferred to a trauma center for treatment of moderate injuries. The case vehicle was also occupied by a 79-year-old male belted front right passenger with a deployed frontal airbag. He was reported to have minor injuries and was transported to a hospital. There was a 71-year-old female belted second row right passenger with no airbag deployment. She was also reported to have minor injuries and transported to a hospital for treatment.