This frontal crash case involves a 34 year old restrained male Driver with deployed air bags who sustained severe injuries. The crash occurred at dusk in wet and raining weather. The collision occurred on a two-lane bituminous roadway that curved to the left just after a crest in the road. The roadway has a negative 8 % grade and is divided by a solid double line. The case vehicle (V1) a 2011 four-door Toyota Tacoma pickup was being driven southbound. The crash occurred when V1 lost control exiting a left curve and traveled off the right side road edge and impacted its right front wheel with an unknown object. The driver then steered V1 back onto the road (left) before traveling back off the south road edge. At this point V1 began to rollover (left side) while leaning to the left at a 45 degree angle impacting one large tree (28 cm wide) with its front bumper and two small trees with its left side. After impacting a large rock with its left rear rim, V1 completed its one quarter roll onto its left side, sliding backwards across the roadway (rear leading) before coming to its final resting position on its left side facing northwest (2/3 off the northbound road edge). At the time of the crash it was raining extremely heavy and the wind was blowing. This was V1's final resting position after impact. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V1 was driven by the 34 year old male case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner did fire). The available steering wheel mounted air bag and the left side curtain air bag deployed as a result of the impact. The seat back mounted air bag did not deploy in the crash. This case occupants seat was positioned at the middle position and the seat back was in the slightly reclines position. The case occupant was severely injured and transported to a local hospital before being transferred to a level one trauma center for treatment of his injuries. This occupant was transferred by ground ambulance (not helicopter) due to bad weather.