This rollover crash case involves a 42 year old restrained male seated in the front left seating position (Driver) with a deployed air bag who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred in the afternoon hours in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred on a curvy, mountainous, two- lane, bituminous, roadway that curved to the right at the point of control loss. This roadway has one northbound travel lane and one southbound travel lane that is separated by a double yellow line and has a -15% grade. Off the edge of the North and South road edge there are embankments. There were no traffic control devices present and the speed limit was 35 mph (56 kmph). The case vehicle (V1), a 2005 three-door hatchback Mini Cooper, was being driven southbound. The crash occurred when V1, for unknown reasons, lost control as it exited a right curve and traveled across the double yellow line and off the south road edge. As V1 traveled off the roadway, it started to rollover partially around its longitudinal axis and partially around its lateral axis. The front left of the vehicle began to dip down as it began to roll and was interrupted by the top of the vehicle impacting a large tree before pivoting around the tree and rotating to its final resting position on its left side with its roof resting on the tree. V1was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. There was approximately 120 minutes of extrication. V1 was driven by the 42 year old male case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (buckle type pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag, seatback mounted air bag, and the side curtain air bag all deployed as a result of the crash. This case occupant's seat was positioned at the rear most and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The case occupant was seriously injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by air for treatment of his injuries. There was also a 9 year old female front right seat occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (buckle type pretensioner actuated). The available instrument panel air bag deployed as a result of the impact but the seat back mounted air bag and the curtain air bag did not deploy as a result of the crash. This occupant seat was positioned between middle and rear most and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. This occupant was moderately injured and transported to a local hospital by air for treatment of her injuries.