This frontal crash case involves a 26 year old unrestrained male with deployed air bag who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred during the early morning hours (dark, with lights) in wet and misty weather. The collision occurred in the intersection of a six-lane divided bituminous level roadway with four northbound lanes divided by a grassy median and two southbound lanes (two travel lanes with an acceleration lane). This roadway is intersected by a six-lane divided bituminous level roadway with four westbound lanes divided by a raised curb median and two eastbound lanes. Both roadways are controlled by a traffic control device. The case vehicle (V1) a 2003 four-door Mitsubishi Lancer was being driven northbound in the right travel lane intending to travel straight through the intersection. Vehicle (V2) a 2003 four-door Chevrolet Avalanche was being driven westbound in the left turn lane intending a left turn to travel south. The crash occurred when V2 entered the intersection (from a stopped position) attempting to execute a left turn and was impacted on the left side by the front of V1 (attempting to crossover). After initial impact, V1 and V2 side slapped resulting in a second impact. V1 rotated counter clockwise 30 degrees traveling to final rest in the middle of the intersection. V2 rotated clockwise 90 degrees before traveling to final rest partially on the north grassy median. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V1 was driven by the 26 year old male case occupant who was unrestrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner did fire). The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed as a result of the impact. This case occupant's seat was positioned between middle and rear most and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The steering wheel was deformed and the steering column sustained full compression. The case occupant was seriously injured and transported to a local, Level 1 Trauma Center (from a nearby Hospital) by ground ambulance for treatment of his injuries.