This off-set frontal crash case involves a 19 year old restrained female driver with a deployed steering wheel mounted air bag. This crash also involves a 20 year old restrained female seated in the front right seating position with a deployed front right passenger air bag and a right front seat back mounted air bag. Both case occupants sustained serious injuries in the crash. The crash occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred on a two- lane, bituminous, level roadway with one northbound lane and one southbound lane. At the area of impact, the northbound travel lane (outer edge) begins to curve to the left (lane width reduces). The case vehicle (V1) a 2001 four-door Hyundai Elantra was being driven northbound. The crash occurred when V1 traveled off the right side road edge (as the lane decreased in width) and impacted a sign post and a stone wall with its front right bumper. After initial impact, V1 rotated 170 degrees clockwise before traveling to its final resting position in the southbound lane facing south. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V1 was driven by the 19 year old female case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner did fire). The driver's available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed as a result of the impact, while the seat back air bag did not deploy. This case occupant's (driver) seat was positioned between middle and front most and the seat back was in the upright position. The front right 20 year old female case occupant was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner did fire) and the available top mounted instrument panel passenger air bag. The front passenger seat back mounted air bag deployed as a result of the impact. This case occupant's seat was positioned between middle and rear most and the seat back was in the upright position. The seat was deformed but the degree is unknown due to rescue crew extrication. This case occupant was entrapped in the vehicle by several intruding components such as the side panel forward of the A-pillar, sill, and instrument panel. At the time of impact, this case occupant was seated with her right leg crossed over the left. Both case occupants had serious injuries and were transported to a level 1 trauma center via helicopter for treatment of their injuries.