This near-side crash case involves a 35 year old restrained male seated in the front left seating position (Driver) with deployed air bags who sustained severe injuries. The crash occurred during the early morning hours in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred within the limits of a 4-way intersection. There are six bituminous east (- 5% grade) and westbound lanes (west lanes have an addition right turn lane) and two north and southbound lanes (exit from a private driveway). The east and westbound lanes are seperated by a double yellow line and the intersection is controlled by a traffic control device. There are two level bituminous north and southbound lanes (south has one addition right turn lane) which are also seperated by a double yellow line. The case vehicle (V1) a 2006 four-door Kia Rio was being driven northbound and vehicle two (V2) a 2006 Lincoln Town car was being driven eastbound. The crash occurred when V1, entered the intersection (from a private driveway) in an attempt to execute a left turn(to travel west) when it was impacted on the driver's side by the front of V2 who was traveling in the far right curb lane. After initial impact V1 rotated approximately 90 degrees (CW) and traveled 112 feet in a northeast direction before coming to its final resting position slightly off the westbound road edge. After initial impact, V2 continued on traveling straight in the right curb lane coming to a final resting position just east of the impact location facing east. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V1 was driven by the 35 year old male case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag, side seat back mounted air bag and the roof side rail mounted curtain air bag did deployed as a result of the impact. This case occupants seat was positioned between middle and rear most and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The driver's seat was deformed due to B-pillar and door intrusion. The case occupant was severely injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of his injuries.