This frontal crash case involves a 70 year old restrained female seated in the front right seating position with no deployed air bags, who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred during the evening hours (dark, with no lights) in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred at an intersection with two bituminous level, north (straight) and southbound (curved) lanes separated by a raised curb median. This roadway is intersected by a four lane curved bituminous level roadway (East/curve to the left and West/curved to the right) that has two travel lanes with one left turn lane and one right turn lane separated by a raised curb median. The north/south travel lanes are controlled by a stop sign and there is no traffic controls for the east/west travel lanes The case vehicle (V1) a 2011 four-door Chevrolet Equinox (SUV) was being driven northbound in the right travel lane and Vehicle two (V2) a 2005 Ford Ranger Super Cab was being driven westbound in the far right lane. The crash occurred when V1 entered the intersection (from a stop) intending to cross over and pass through and was impacted on the right front fender by the front of V2. After initial impact, V1 rotated counterclockwise 120 degrees before traveling to its final resting position in the northwest quadrant of the intersection facing southeast. V2 rotated slightly clockwise before traveling to its final resting position in the northwest quadrant of the intersection facing west. V1 and V2 were both towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. The 70 year old female case occupant, seated in the front right seating position was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available Instrument panel mounted air bag, side seat back mounted air bag and the roof side rail mounted curtain air bag did not deployed as a result of the impact. This case occupants seat was positioned between middle and rear most and the seat back was in the slightly reclines position. The case occupant was seriously injured and initially transported to a local hospital for treatment of her injuries by ground ambulance. This case occupant was later transferred to a level 1 trauma center. V1 was driven by a 70 year old male non-case occupant who was unrestrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag, side seat back mounted air bag and the roof side rail mounted curtain air bag did not deployed as a result of the impact at this occupants seating position. The driver was not injured in the crash. It should be noted that during the crash sequence the driver of the case vehicle (unbelted) traveled across the interior of vehicle and impacted the front right passengers on the left side of her head causing injury.