This frontal crash case involves a 31 year old restrained female seated in the front left seating position (Driver) with deployed air bag who sustained moderate injuries. This frontal crash also involves a 31 year old restrained male seated in the front right seating position who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred at late morning in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred on a two lane bituminous roadway within the confines of an s-curve with curve warning signs present. The roadway is level and the North/South lanes are separated by a solid double line. The case vehicle (V1), a 2008 four-door Chevrolet Impala, was being driven southbound. Vehicle #2 (V2), a 2000 four-door Mazda Protégé, was being driven northbound. The crash occurred when V1 lost control exiting a right curve and traveled over the double yellow line into the northbound travel lane where it impacted its front with the front of V2. Before impact, V1 left 91 feet of skid marks. After initial impact, V1 continued a few feet forward while rotating counterclockwise before traveling to its final resting position facing southeast. V2 had just exited a right curve when it saw V1 in its travel lane and also locked up its brakes, leaving 35 feet of skid marks. After initial impact, V2 was pushed rearward 22 feet and rotated clockwise 90 degrees before traveling to its final resting position facing southeast. V1 and V2 were both towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V1 was driven by the 31 year old female case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed as a result of the impact. This case occupant's seat was positioned between middle and rear most and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The front right 31 year old male case occupant was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated) and the available top mounted instrument panel passenger air bag deployed as a result of the impact. This case occupant's seat was positioned between middle and rear most and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. Both case occupants were seriously injured and transported to local trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of their injuries.