The first event in this crash involves a frontal impact to V1 with a 45 year old unrestrained female (case occupant V1/01) seated in the front left (Driver) seating position with a deployed steering wheel, seat back mounted, and a side curtain air bag who sustained moderate injuries. There was also a 14 year old unrestrained female non-case occupant seated in the front right seating position with a deployed frontal air bag. The first event in this crash also involves a right side impact to V2 with a 25 year old restrained male (case occupant V2/01, farside criteria) seated in the front left seating position with no deployed air bags (steering wheel/seat back/side curtain) who sustained serious injuries. There was also a 21 year old restrained female (case occupant V2/02, nearside criteria) seated in the front right seating position with a deployed seat back mounted and a side curtain air bag who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred during the late evening hours (dark but lighted) in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred on a level two lane bituminous roadway with one northbound lane and one southbound lane separated by two sets of solid double yellow lines. Just prior to the impact location there is a left curve for the northbound travel lane. There are no traffic control devices for each direction. The case vehicle (V1), a 2005 five-door Toyota Sequoia, was being driven southbound and the other case vehicle (V2), a 2010 four-door BMW, was being driven northbound at the time of the crash. V1 was traveling southbound and V2 was traveling northbound. The crash occurred as V2 was exiting a left curve when the driver for unknown reasons lost control and traveled over the right lane line and then as the driver began to steer back to the left he lost control, yawing back across his travel lane and into the southbound lane. V2’s right side impacted the front of V1. As V2 began rotating counter clockwise its right side rear side slapped with the left passenger side of V1. After impact V1 rotated clockwise traveling off the roadway impacting its front right bumper (Impact #3) with a ditch before traveling to its final resting position facing southwest. After initial impact V2 continued rotating counter clockwise to final resting position in the northbound lane facing east. V1and V2 were both towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. Vehicle #1 The 45 year old female (case occupant V1/01) was seated in the front left seating position and was not restrained by the available 3-point manual safety belt. The retractor type pretensioner actuated as a result of the crash. The available driver’s steering wheel, side curtain, and seat back mounted air bags all deployed as a result of the impact. This case occupant’s seat was positioned at middle and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. This case occupant was injured in the crash and transported by ground ambulance to a level 1 trauma center for treatment of her injuries. There was also a 14 year old female non-case occupant seated in the front right seating position and was not restrained by the available 3-point manual safety belt. The retractor type pretensioner did fire as a result of the crash. The available IP air bag did deploy in the crash but the side curtain and seat back mounted air bags did not deploy. This non-case occupant was injured in the crash and transported by ground ambulance to a level 1 trauma center for treatment of her injuries and then released the same day. Vehicle #2 The 25 year old male (case occupant V2/01) was seated in the front left seating position and was restrained by the available 3-point manual safety belt. The buckle type pretensioner actuated as a result of the crash. The available steering wheel, side curtain, and seat back mounted air bags did not deploy as a result of the impact. This case occupant’s seat was positioned between middle and full rear and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The case occupant was injured in the crash and transported by ground ambulance to a level 1 trauma center for treatment of his injuries. The 21 year old female (case occupant V2/01) was seated in the front right seating position and was restrained by the available 3-point manual safety belt. The buckle type pretensioner actuated as a result of the crash. The available IP air bag did not deploy in the crash but the side curtain and seat back mounted air bags deployed as a result of the impact. This case occupant’s seat was positioned between middle and full rear and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The case occupant was injured in the crash and transported by ground ambulance to a level 1 trauma center for treatment of her injuries.