This nearside crash involves an 18 year old unrestrained male seated in the 2nd row left seating position with a deployed curtain air bag who sustained severe injuries. The crash occurred during the early morning hours in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred within the confines of a 4-legged intersection. There are four, -4% grade bituminous northbound lanes (two straight, one left turn only lane, and one right turn only lane) separated by a raised curb and two 4% grade, bituminous, southbound lanes. This roadway is intersected by six, level bituminous travel lanes with four eastbound lanes (two straight, one left turn only lane, and one right turn only lane) separated by two westbound travel lanes. This intersection is controlled by a traffic control device for each direction. The case vehicle (V1), a 2009 four-door Mazda 3, was being driven northbound (left turn lane) and vehicle two (V2), a 1995 four-door Ford Bronco (Utility Vehicle), was being driven eastbound in the far right straight lane. The crash occurred as V1 entered the intersection attempting to execute a left turn to travel west and was impacted on the left side by the front bumper of V2. After initial impact, V1 rotated counter clockwise 60 degrees before traveling to final rest in the middle of the intersection facing west. V2 rotated 90 degrees counter clockwise before rolling over (two quarter turns) onto its roof and traveling to its final resting position in the far eastern location of the intersection facing north. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. The 18 year old male case occupant was seated in the 2nd row left seating position was not restrained by the available 3-point manual safety belt. The available passenger side curtain air bag deployed as a result of the impact. This case occupant's seat back or seat track was not adjustable for this position. The case occupant was severely injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of his injuries. V1 was driven by a 20 year old female non-case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag did not deploy as a result of the impact but the curtain air bag and the side seat back mounted airbag did deploy as a result of the crash. This occupant's seat was positioned between forward most and middle and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The non-case occupant was injured in the crash and transported by ground ambulance to a level 1 trauma center and released with non life threatening injuries. There was also a 23 year old male non-case occupant who was seated in the front right seating position. This non case occupant was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available frontal Instrument panel air bag and the side seat mounted and side curtain air bag did not deploy as a result of the impact. This occupant's seat was positioned at the rear most and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The non-case occupant was injured in the crash and transported by ground ambulance to a level 1 trauma center and released with non life threatening injuries.