This nearside crash case involves a 21 year old restrained female seated in the front left seating position (driver) with deployed air bags who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred in the morning hours (daylight) in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred within the confines of a T-intersection. There are three southbound (> 2% negative slope) bituminous travel lanes separated by a grassy median and three northbound bituminous travel lanes. The southbound travel lanes curve to the left at the point of impact. The northbound travel lane is intersected by a three-lane bituminous roadway with one westbound lane and two eastbound lanes. This intersection is controlled by a stop sign for eastbound traffic entering the North/South roadway. The posted speed limit for the North/South roadway is 50 mph (80 kmph) and for the east/west roadway is 25 mph (40 kmph). The case vehicle (V1), a 2012 four-door Honda Civic was being driven eastbound and vehicle (V2), a 1998 four-door Toyota Avalon was being driven southbound in the passing lane.. The crash occurred when V1, attempted to cross the southbound travel lane to execute a left turn in order to travel North when it was impacted on the driver's door by the front of V2. After initial impact, V1 rotated counterclockwise before traveling to its final resting position in the middle of the grassy median (South of the point of impact) facing North. After initial impact V2 traveled in a northerly direction before traveling to final rest on the North shoulder (just South of the intersection) facing South. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V1 was driven by the 21 year old female case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted, seat back mounted, and roof side rail mounted air bag all deployed as a result of the crash. This case occupant's seat track was positioned between forward most and middle and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The case occupant was severely injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by helicopter for treatment of her injuries.