This frontal crash case involves a 57 year old unrestrained female seated in the front left seating position (Driver) with a deployed steering wheel mounted air bag who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred in the morning hours (daylight) in dry and clear weather within the confines of an intersection. There are two level bituminous southbound travel lanes (one straight lane and one left turn only) separated by a double yellow line and one northbound bituminous travel lane. The north and south travel lanes are intersected by two east/west travel lanes. There is one eastbound bituminous roadway (> 2% positive slope) and one westbound bituminous travel lane. This intersection is controlled by a traffic light in all directions. The posted speed limit for the north/south roadway is 55 mph (89 kmph) and for the east/west roadway is 45 mph (64 kmph). The case vehicle (V1), a 2006 four-door Dodge Durango, was being driven southbound and vehicle (V2), a 2006 five-door Subaru Outback, was being driven eastbound. Vehicle #1 was traveling southbound and Vehicle #2 was traveling eastbound (attempting to execute a left turn in order to proceed north). The crash occurred when V1 entered the intersection and impacted its front with the left side of V2. After initial impact, V1 continued in a southerly direction before traveling to its final resting position in the southbound lane (facing south) outside of the intersection. After initial impact V2 rotated clockwise 90 degrees traveling in a southerly direction before traveling to its final resting position partially of the southeast portion of the roadway facing south. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V1 was driven by the 57 year old female case occupant who was unrestrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed as a result of the crash. This case occupant’s seat track was positioned at middle and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The case occupant was seriously injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of her injuries.