This frontal crash involves a 57 year old restrained male (1st case occupant) seated in the front left seating position (driver) with a deployed steering wheel air bag who sustained severe injuries. There was also a 49 year old restrained female (2nd case occupant)seated in the front right seating position with a deployed instrument panel air bag who sustained severe injuries. There was a third (non-case) occupant in V1 and she was a 27 year old unrestrained female seated in the 2nd row right seating position who sustained severe injuries The crash occurred in the morning hours (daylight) in wet and cloudy weather (the rain had just stopped but the road was still wet). The collision occurred on an uphill grade (>2%) with two lane bituminous travel lanes. There is one northbound travel lane (uphill grade) and one southbound travel lane (downhill grade) with a shoulder for each direction. There are no traffic control devices for each direction. The case vehicle (V1), a 2007 four-door Toyota Corolla, was being driven northbound at the time of the crash and vehicle two (V2), a 2000 two-door Ford Escort was being driven southbound (exiting a left curve) The crash occurred as V2 exited a left curve traveling slightly off the south travel lane and onto the south shoulder. After losing control (beginning yaw), V2 then traveled back onto the south travel lane and across the double yellow line and into the northbound travel lane impacting its front right corner with the front of V1 (case vehicle). After initial impact, V1 rotated (possible counter clockwise) 30 degrees traveling to its final resting position partially on the north shoulder facing northeast. After initial impact V2 rotated counter clockwise 230 degrees before traveling to its final resting position across the north and south travel lanes facing west. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. The 57 year old male case occupant was seated in the front left seating position and was restrained by the available 3-point manual safety belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed as a result of the impact. This case occupant’s seat was positioned between middle and rear most position and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The case occupant was severely injured in the crash and transported by air ambulance to a level 1 trauma center for treatment of his injuries. The 49 year old female case occupant seated in the front right seating position was restrained by the available 3-point manual safety belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated) and deployed instrument panel mounted air bag. This occupant’s seat was positioned at the middle position and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. As a result of the collision, this occupant’s seatback was deformed forward due to loading from an unbelted rear seat occupant. This case occupant was severely injured in the crash and transported by air ambulance to a level 1 trauma center for treatment of her injuries. The 27 year old female non-case occupant seated in the 2nd row right seating position and was unrestrained by the available 3-point manual safety belt. This case occupant was severely injured in the crash and transported by ground ambulance to a level 1 trauma center for treatment of her injuries.