This frontal crash case involves an 84 year old restrained female seated in the front left seating position (driver) with a deployed air bag who sustained serious injuries and a 90 year old unrestrained female seated in the front right seating position (passenger) with a deployed air bag who sustained fatal injuries. The crash occurred in the early morning hours (dawn) in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred in the parking lot of a private gated retirement community. The posted speed limit for this private community is 15 mph (24 kmph). The case vehicle (V1), was a 2007 four-door Chevrolet Malibu, which impacted a golf cart and then continued on and impacted the left side of a parked, unknown year Isuzu Medium/Heavy Single unit straight truck (Delivery truck). Due to the fact this crash occurred on private property there was no police report completed. The crash occurred when, for unknown reasons, V1 lost control as it entered a left curve and traveled off the roadway impacting a golf cart. V1 then continued on for approximately 170 feet before impacting the left side of a parked Medium/Heavy single unit delivery truck with its front bumper. After impacting V2, V1 rotated approximately 10 degrees counterclockwise before traveling to its final resting position. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash and there was approximately 22 minutes of extrication for each of the occupants. It is unknown if V2 was towed from the scene. V1 was driven by the 84 year old female case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed as a result of the crash (the seat back and the roof side rail air bags did not deploy). This case occupant's seat track was positioned between forward most and middle and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The case occupant was seriously injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by helicopter for treatment of her injuries. The 90 year old female case occupant (front right passenger) was not restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available frontal mounted air bag deployed as a result of the crash (the seat back and the roof side rail air bags did not deploy). This case occupant's seat track was positioned between middle and rear most and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The case occupant was seriously injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by helicopter for treatment of her injuries and later died.