This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 21 year old restrained male driver and 46 year old unrestrained male front right passenger of a 2012 Volkswagen GTI 2-door hatchback. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags and (seat back mounted) side air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The case vehicle was also equipped with curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions. The frontal air bags, left side air bag, and left curtain air bag deployed during a multiple impact crash envelope with large diameter trees. Vehicle 1 was traveling northbound on a rural two-lane roadway during the early morning hours. It was dark (street not lighted); with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. The collision occurred off the west pavement edge of a straight and level north/south bituminous roadway. South of the crash site, the roadway curves right for northbound traffic and crests on a transition into the straightaway. Vehicle 1 exited the curve into the straightaway and departed the left (west) pavement edge in a slight clockwise rotation. As Vehicle 1 departed the left pavement edge, the left side surface impacted a large diameter tree (event 1). The initial impact resulted in moderate damage, and reversed the vehicle's rotation counterclockwise as it continued in a northerly direction. At this point, the front right area struck a second large diameter tree resulting in severe damage (event 2). This secondary impact compounded the vehicle's counterclockwise rotation as it subsequently re-entered the road and came to rest alongside the east pavement edge facing northwest. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage. The 21 year old male driver was restrained by the available 3-point manual safety belt. The retractor type pretensioner actuated as a result of the crash. The available steering wheel mounted frontal air bag, left front (seatback mounted) side air bag, and left curtain air bag deployed during the multiple impact crash sequence. The driver's seat was adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position, as the seat back was slightly reclined. Driver loading deformed the seat back rearward, which was attributed to occupant rebound following the second event. The driver was transported by air to a nearby level 1 trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. The 46 year old male front right passenger was not restrained by the available 3-point manual safety belt. The retractor type pretensioner actuated even though the belt was not in use. The available passenger frontal air bag deployed during the multiple impact crash sequence. The right front (seatback mounted) side air bag and right curtain air bag did not deploy. The front right passenger's seat was adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position, as the seat back was slightly reclined. The front right passenger was transported by air to a nearby level 1 trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision.