This frontal crash involves a 26 year old unrestrained female seated in the front left (Driver) seating position with deployed steering wheel, seat back and roof side rail air bags who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred in the evening hours in dry and clear weather. The collision occurred on a six lane divided (without positive barrier) bituminous trafficway that curves to the right for V1's direction of travel. There are four eastbound travel lanes (-3% grade, two straight lanes with one left and one right turn) and two westbound travel lanes. There are traffic control devices (signal) for each direction. The case vehicle (V1), a 2010 four-door Ford Focus, was being driven eastbound at the time of the crash. V1 was traveling eastbound (unknown lane) and as it entered a four way intersection it traveled across all four westbound lanes and traveled off the west roadedge. After traveling off the west roadedge V1 continued up an embankment (35% grade) before impacting its front left (non-horizontal) with a tree. V1 then rotated counterclockwise (right side leading) very fast and violently off the first tree and then impacting a second tree (during the rollover) with its right A-pillar area first then continuing across the front hood to the left fender area. It then continued rotating (counterclockwise) approximately 180 degrees down the embankment and traveling to its final resting position on its roof on the sidewalk facing east. From the point of rollover to final rest, V1 traveled approximately 42 feet. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. The 26 year old female case occupant was seated in the front left seating position and was not restrained by the available 3-point manual safety belt. The retractor type pretensioner did not actuate as a result of the crash. The available steering wheel, seat back and roof side rail mounted air bags deployed as a result of the crash. This case occupant's seat was positioned between forward most and middle position and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The case occupant was injured in the crash and transported by ground ambulance to a level 1 trauma center for treatment of her injuries.