This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 62 year old female front right passenger of a 2005 Honda Pilot 4-door sport utility. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of a frontal collision with a 2004 Hyundai Santa Fe 4-door sport utility (Vehicle 2). The Honda Pilot was also equipped with seat back mounted side air bags for the front seating positions (non-deployed). Vehicle 1 was northbound and proceeding straight on a two-lane north/south residential roadway. It was dark (street not lighted), with rainy weather conditions as the road was reported by police to be covered with snow. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 35 mph (56 km/h). Vehicle 2 was southbound on the same road and negotiating a right curve. Vehicle 2 crested a hill and began traveling downhill when the wheels broke traction on the slick road surface and crossed the centerline, into the path of the northbound Honda. As Vehicle 2 entered the northbound travel lane, the frontal area impacted the frontal area of Vehicle 1 (event 1). The impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, Vehicle 2 rotated sharply counterclockwise as the right side surface struck the left side surface of Vehicle 1 (event 2). This secondary "side slap" impact resulted in additional moderate damage to Vehicle 1. Both vehicles came to rest in close proximity to the point of impact along the east shoulder facing northeast. The restrained 62 year old female front right passenger of the 2005 Honda Pilot was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact 1, the front right passenger initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 11 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, glove compartment door, and deployed front right passenger air bag. Contact with the glove compartment door was evidenced by the pronounced scuff mark identified on this component, which was also deformed/out of place. Interaction with the deployed front right passenger air bag was evidenced by the dark scuff mark documented on the right aspect of the membrane face. Additional deformation was noted on one of the (center instrument panel) vent louvers, and attributed to probable engagement with the passenger's left upper extremity. At impact 2, the passenger's kinematic was re-directed to the left in response to the 9 o'clock impact force; however, no interior contact points or damage was attributed to this event. Following the crash, the restrained 66 year old male driver and restrained 62 year old female front right passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported to a nearby trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was treated and released, as the front right passenger was admitted for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.