This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 78 year old male driver and restrained 78 year old female front right passenger of a 2007 Cadillac STS 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal air bag deployed as a result of an off road rollover event (event 3). The 2007 Cadillac was also equipped with seat back mounted side air bags for the front seating positions, and curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions (non-deployed). Vehicle 1 was eastbound in the outboard lane of a (level) six-lane divided highway which curved left for eastbound traffic. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 65 mph (105 km/h). As Vehicle 1 reached the apex of the curve, it departed the travel lanes and continued in an easterly direction onto the right (south) shoulder in a forward tracking mode. At this point, Vehicle 1 traveled down an embankment and began to rotate counterclockwise. The vehicle subsequently entered a wooded area as the right side surface struck two small trees, resulting in minor damage (events 1 & 2). Pre-impact lateral motion down the embankment tipped the vehicle's center of gravity outboard of its wheels. This produced a roll moment, and initiated a 6-quarter turn right side rollover (i.e. "fall-over"). This rollover event (event 3) resulted in severe top damage. Vehicle 1 impacted another small tree and brush during its trajectory to final rest (events 4 & 5), which resulted in addtional minor damage. Vehicle 1 came to rest (on its roof) off the south pavement edge of the road facing north. The restrained 78 year old male driver of the 2007 Cadillac STS was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Impacts 1 and 2 were minor in nature, and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the occupant. During the rollover (event 3), the driver initiated an upward trajectory in response to the non-horizontal impact force and struck the left roof area and adjacent grab bar. This kinematic pattern was evidenced by the abraded/matted headliner fabric, as the adjacent grab bar was found heavily scratched. Blood spatter surrounded the contact site, indicative of the occupant's final rest position against these components. Impacts 4 & 5 were minor in nature, and probably did not alter the driver's on-going rollover kinematic into interior components. The restrained 78 year old female front right passenger of the 2007 Cadillac STS was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Impacts 1 and 2 were minor in nature, and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the occupant. However, the passenger initiated a non-horizontal trajectory upward and to the right, in response to the vehicle's roll moment. During the rollover (event 3), the passenger struck the right grab bar as evidenced by the scratches and displacement documented on this component. Impacts 4 & 5 were minor in nature, and probably did not alter the passenger's on-going rollover kinematic into interior components. Following the crash, both occupants of the 2007 Cadillac STS were transported to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.