This frontal crash case involves a 32 year old restrained female seated in the front left seating position (Driver) with a deployed steering wheel mounted air bag and a curtain air bag who sustained moderate injuries. The crash occurred in the evening hours (dark but lighted) in dry and clear weather within the confines of an intersection. There are four bituminous eastbound travel lanes (two straight lanes and two turn lanes) and three westbound bituminous travel lanes (three straight lanes). The West and East travel lanes are separated by a raised curb median and are intersected by North and South travel lanes. There are three bituminous northbound travel lanes (two straight and one right turn only) and two southbound bituminous travel lanes. This intersection is controlled by a traffic light in all directions and at the point of impact, the east roadway has a -2% grade. The posted speed limit for the west/east roadway is 40 mph (64 kmph). The case vehicle (V1), a 2012 four-door Toyota Corolla, was being driven eastbound. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 five-door Nissan Xterra, was stopped at the intersection facing eastbound in front of V1. Vehicle #1 was traveling eastbound in the right straight lane and Vehicle #2 was stopped at the intersection in front of V1 (right straight lane). As V1 approached the intersection it impacted the rear of V2. After initial impact, V1 traveled in a southeasterly direction traveling off the road edge and impacting a crosswalk post before traveling to final rest. After initial impact, V2 traveled in an easterly direction before rolling over traveling to its final resting position on the east side (center) of the intersection. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V1 was driven by the 32 year old female case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag and the roof siderail curtain air bag deployed in the crash and the seat back mounted air bag did not deploy. Inspection of the driver’s steering wheel mounted air bag revealed that lower portion of the air bag was partially folded and did not fully inflate. This might have occurred due to the driver leaning against the lower portion of the air bag at the time of deployment causing the propellant to not totally inflate the lower portion of the AB. The lower portion of the air bag seemed to have been fused together by the propellant. This case occupant’s seat track was positioned at between middle and full back and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. There was seat pan deformation for the driver’s seating position. The case occupant was moderately injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of her injuries.