This frontal crash involves a 60 year old restrained female seated in the front left (Driver) position which was equipped with a steering wheel mounted frontal air bag who sustained serious injuries as a result of an offset frontal collision. The crash occurred in the morning hours (daylight but cloudy) on a wet roadway. The collision occurred on a two lane bituminous roadway which curved left for northbound traffic. The road was bordered by narrow shoulders, with hillcrests and sags present both north and south of the crash site. The speed limit at the crash site was 35 mph (56 km/h). The case vehicle (Vehicle 1), a 2003 Ford Taurus station wagon, was northbound and negotiating a left curve. Vehicle 2, a 2000 Ford Taurus 4-door sedan, was southbound and negotiating a right curve on a downhill grade. As Vehicle 2 reached the apex of the curve, the driver allowed the vehicle to cross the centerline into the path of the northbound Ford Taurus wagon. As Vehicle 2 entered the northbound travel lane, the front left area impacted the front left area of Vehicle 1. Impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, Vehicle 1 rotated slightly counterclockwise and came to rest straddling the east pavement edge of the road facing northwest. Vehicle 2 also rotated counterclockwise and came to rest in the southbound lane facing northwest. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage. The 60 year old female driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt. The buckle type pretensioner actuated and the available steering wheel air bag deployed as a result of the crash. This case occupant's seat was adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position, as the seat back was partially reclined. Deformation was identified on the driver's seat cushion support. The case occupant was taken to a local hospital by ground transport and subsequently airlifted to a level 1 trauma center for treatment of serious injuries sustained in the crash.