This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 44-year-old female front right passenger of a 2010 Suzuki SX4 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions, which deployed as a result of a frontal collision with a ditch (event 4). The Suzuki was also equipped with seat back mounted side air bags for the front seating positions and curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions (non-deployed). Vehicle 1 was northbound and proceeding straight on a (level) north/south two-lane rural roadway. It was dark (street not lighted), with police reported "misty" weather conditions as the road was wet. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 45 mph (72 km/h). The driver allowed the vehicle to depart the left (west) pavement edge in a forward tracking mode and subsequently entered a shallow ditch. Vehicle 1 continued in a northerly direction as the front lower bumper and below struck several small bushes and landscaping rocks, which resulted in minor damage (events 1-3). These minor impacts did not alter the vehicle's trajectory as it approached a residential driveway adjacent to the ditch backslope. The front left area impacted the ditch resulting in moderate damage (event 4). Engagement with the soil continued into the vehicle's undercarriage and rear axle area. At this point, the vehicle's frontal area struck another group of small landscaping rocks, which resulted in additional overlapping damage (event 5). Vehicle 1 came to rest straddling the west pavement edge of the road facing northwest. The 44 year old female front right passenger of the 2010 Suzuki SX4 was improperly restrained by the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system and abnormally postured leaning slightly forward with her right arm/hand bracing (extended) against the upper instrument panel. The front right passenger positioned the shoulder harness behind her back and possibly placed the lap portion high across the abdomen. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Impacts 1-3 were minor in nature, and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the occupant. At impact 4, the front right passenger initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force. Impact 5 was also minor in nature and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the occupant. Following the crash, the unrestrained 31 year old male driver and restrained 44 year old female front right passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local hospital. The driver was treated and released. The front right passenger was subsequently transferred to a nearby trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.