This frontal crash case involves a 80 year old restrained female seated in the front left seating position (Driver) with a deployed front steering wheel air bag who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred in the afternoon hours (daylight) in dry and clear weather within the confines of an intersection. On the East side of the intersection there are six bituminous westbound travel lanes (two straight lanes, two left turn lanes, and two right turn lanes) separated by a raised median and three eastbound bituminous travel lanes. The West and East travel lanes are intersected by five bituminous northbound travel lanes (one left turn, three straight, and one right turn) and two southbound travel lanes. This intersection is controlled by a traffic light in all directions. The posted speed limit for all four directions is 35 mph (56 kmph). The case vehicle (V1), a 2007 five-door Toyota Prius, was being driven westbound. Vehicle two (V2), a 2010 four-door Mercedes-Benz, was being driven eastbound. Vehicle three (V3), a 2011 four-door Hyundai Elantra, was being driven north. Vehicle #1 was traveling westbound in the left turn lane; Vehicle #2 was traveling eastbound in the center straight lane (attempting to travel through the intersection); and V3 was traveling north attempting to execute a right turn. Vehicle #3 made a right turn in front V2 causing its front to impact the left rear of V3. After initial impact, V2 traveled in a northeast direction traveling up and over the raised median and impacting its front bumper with the front of V1. V1 was originally traveling West when the driver noticed V2 approaching her vehicle and was able to bring her vehicle to a complete stop but was still impacted. After impact, V1 was pushed back and slightly to the right before traveling to its final resting position. V2 continued in a northeast direction before traveling to its final resting position in the right straight lane (West direction). V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash and V3 was driven from the scene. V1 was driven by the 80 year old female case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available steering wheel mounted air bag did deploy as a result of the crash. The seat back mounted and roof side rail curtain air bag did not deploy as a result of the crash. This case occupant's seat track was positioned between forward most and middle and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. There was no seat deformation for the driver's seating position. The case occupant was seriously injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by ground ambulance for treatment of her injuries.