This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 64-year-old female driver of a 2012 Buick Verano 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), a knee bolster air bag (for the driver seating position), and seat back mounted side air bags/curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver frontal air bag, knee bolster air bag, and left/right curtain air bags deployed during a multi-event crash envelope. The crash occurred off the east pavement edge of a 6-lane north/south divided urban trafficway. The north/south (asphalt) travel lanes were divided by a raised concrete median, and bordered by barrier curbs. Local business parking lots were located to the east and west adjacent to the trafficway, with driveways providing access. A 4-leg intersection was also located within the overall crash site, which was controlled by overhead tri-lights. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 35 mph (56 km/h). The case vehicle was initially facing west and maneuvered into a parking space within one of the business parking lots adjacent to the northbound roadway. The driver allowed Vehicle 1 to rapidly accelerate in a westerly direction traveling up and over the sidewalk and onto the north/south trafficway. At this point, driver steering inputs re-directed the vehicle onto the northbound roadway and continue in a northeasterly direction (in the outboard travel lane) towards the 4-leg intersection. Immediately south of the 4-leg intersection, Vehicle 1 departed the right (east) pavement edge and traversed 3 traffic islands resulting in two moderate wheel/tire damage (events 1& 2). The front right area subsequently impacted a concrete retaining wall located on the perimeter of a parking lot, adjacent to the northbound roadway (event 3). This wall impact resulted in a sudden clockwise rotation as the vehicle's center of gravity was tipped outboard of its wheels. The rotational mechanism produced a vehicle roll moment, which initiated a 6-quarter turn left side rollover ("bounce-over"). The rollover impact (event 4) resulted in moderate top damage. Vehicle 1 traveled northwest along its post-impact trajectory, and came to rest upside down (on its top) in the northbound roadway (north of the 4-leg intersection) facing southeast. The restrained 64-year-old female driver of the 2012 Buick Verano was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. The curb impacts (events 1-4), probably produced little if no kinematic response from the driver, but may have influenced the driver's posture (now out-of-position) into subsequent events. It was unknown which event triggered deployment of the frontal and knee bolster air bags; however, evidence suggested the wall impact was the most probable event. At impact 5, the driver initiated a forward (and slightly lateral) trajectory in response to the 1 o'clock impact force. During the roll moment, the driver kinematic was re-directed up and to the left in response to the non-horizontal rollover initiation. Following the collision, the restrained 64-year-old female driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a nearby trauma center and admiitted for treatment of serious injury. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.