This frontal crash case involves a 22 year old restrained female seated in the front right seating position with a deployed frontal air bag who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred in the early morning hours (dark with street lights) in dry and clear weather conditions on a northbound four-lane interstate roadway. The north/south bituminous (level) travel lanes are bordered by W-beam guardrails as the trafficway was divided by a concrete (jersey) barrier. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 55 mph (89 km/h), and there were no traffic controls present. The case vehicle (V1), a 2004 GMC Envoy 4-door 4x4 sport utility, was northbound on the inboard travel lane and proceeding straight. Vehicle two (V2), an unknown make/model tractor-trailer was also northbound and traveling in the second outboard lane. The driver of V1 drifted to the right into the adjacent travel lanes, and into the path of V2. As V1 entered the (northbound) second outboard lane, the right front side surface impacted the tractor unit of V2 (gas tank/left rear tractor wheel). This initial impact resulted in minor damage to V1, as a pronounced tire scuff from V2 was indicative of a swiping type impact. The two vehicles broke contact as V1's right rear side surface subsequently struck the trailer portion of V2 resulting in moderate damage (event 2). At this point, the combination of impact forces and driver steering inputs re-directed V1 to the northwest and towards the center median. V1 traversed the west shoulder as the front left area impacted the concrete (jersey) barrier. The impact configuration produced a counterclockwise rotation as the remaining front end structure of V1 engaged the barrier, which resulted in moderate damage (event 3). V1 continued its counterclockwise rotation to final rest on the west shoulder of the northbound roadway facing southwest. V1 was later towed from the crash site due to disabling damage. Following the collision, V2 continued northbound and left the scene (without stopping) with non-disabling damage. V1 was driven by a 25 year old male non-case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt. The steering wheel mounted frontal air bag deployed in the crash at this seating position. The driver was transported to a nearby trauma center for treatment and released the same day. The 22 year old female case occupant in the front right seating position was also restrained by the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt (no pretensioner available). The available frontal (instrument panel mounted) air bag deployed as a result of the impact with the concrete barrier (event 3). This case occupant's seat track was positioned between middle and full rearward and the seat back was slightly reclined. The inboard taper of the front right seat back was deformed by the unrestrained rear right passenger during the final impact phase of the crash. The front right case occupant was transported to a nearby level 1 trauma center by ground ambulance and admitted for treatment of serious injury sustained in the collision. The 20 year old male unrestrained rear right passenger was transported to a nearby trauma center for treatment and released the same day.