This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 63 year old male driver of a 2008 Ford Ranger supercab pickup. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions). The driver's frontal air bag deployed as a result of a moderate severity impact with a standard "W" section of a metal barrier. The crash occurred just off the northeast quadrant of a 3-leg intersection. The asphalt (level) North/South trafficway consisted of two northbound lanes (one straight and one right turn lane) separated by a double yellow line and three southbound travel lanes (two straight and one right turn lane). The North/South trafficway is intersected (on the East side) by two asphalt (level) East/West travel lanes that are divided by a double yellow line. There were no traffic control devices for the North/South trafficway but there was a stop sign for westbound traffic. It was dark (with road lighted) with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The speed limit at the crash site was 35 mph (56 km/h). Vehicle 1 was initially traveling northbound and proceeding straight through the intersection when as the driver was approaching the northeastern quadrant of the intersection (where the two northbound travel lanes merge into one lane) the driver traveled off the north road edge impacting a guardrail with its front right bumper. After initial impact, V1 continued along the guardrail, impacting a warning sign (event #2), before its front right wheel became wedged between the guardrail and a guardrail post causing V1 to abruptly rotate clockwise before traveling to its final resting position back in the northbound travel lane facing southeast. V1 was driven by the 63 year old male case occupant who was unrestrained by the 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt (buckle type pretensioner did not actuate). The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed as a result of the impact with the guardrail. The case occupant's seat was adjusted to a full rear track positioned and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The case occupant was seriously injured and transported to a level 1 trauma center by ground transportation for treatment of his injuries.