This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 63-year-old female driver and restrained 3-year-old male rear left child passenger of a 2004 Honda CR-V 4-door AWD sport utility. The 4-year-old male rear left child passenger was restrained within a (unknown make/model) forward facing child safety seat. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions (non-deployed). The case vehicle sustained severe left side damage as a result of an oblique angled impact with a 2005 Mack CV700 tandem dump truck (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred on a bridge overpass within an interchange junction between an interstate highway and multi-lane state trafficway. The east/west (level) concrete surfaced state trafficway consisted of 7-lanes which were divided by a raised (curbed) median and curved left for westbound vehicles. The north/south travel lanes within the north sector provided access/egress to the intersecting interstate highway, as traffic through the intersection was controlled by overhead tri-lights. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The speed limit at the crash site was 35 mph (56 km/h). Vehicle 1 was initially proceeding southbound on the interstate exit ramp on approach to the intersection. Vehicle 2 was westbound in the outboard through lane and proceeding straight on approach to the same intersection. As both vehicles entered the intersection, the left side surface of Vehicle 1 was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2. The impact resulted in severe damage to Vehicle 1, and produced a counterclockwise rotation along its trajectory to final rest. Vehicle 2 sustained minor damage. Both vehicles came to rest in the southwest sector of the intersection facing southwest. The restrained 63-year-old female driver of Vehicle 1 was presumed to be postured abnormally with the seat adjusted to a mid-track position. The police and witnesses reported that the driver of Vehicle 1 was turned inboard faced away from traffic while tending to the rear-seated child passenger. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver initiated a lateral (and slightly rearward) trajectory in response to the 9 o'clock impact force. Partial ejection of the driver's head through the disintegrated left front window opening could not be ruled out as a possible source of the severe head trauma reported in the hospital medical records. . The 3-year-old male rear left child passenger was presumed to be in an upright posture within a (unknown make/model) forward facing child safety seat (CSS). The CSS was secured to the second row split-bench seat by the available rear left 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the CSS initiated a lateral (and slightly rearward) trajectory in response to the 9 o'clock impact force. Additional contact evidence identified on the left rear door window sill suggested probable head excursion out of the CSS shell during the occupant kinematic response. This child passenger's head excursion out of the CSS shell was probably a result of improper harness placement and/or integral use of the vehicle's available rear left 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Following the collision, both occupants of Vehicle 1 were transported to a nearby trauma center for treatment. The driver of Vehicle 1 expired prior to admission, as the rear left child passenger was subsequently admitted for further treatment of serious injury sustained in the crash. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to police reported disabling damage.