This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 33 year old male driver of a 2007 Mazda 3 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal air bag deployed as a result of an offset rear-end collision with a 2005 GMC C6500 Cab chassis single-unit dump truck (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred in the westbound lanes of a 4-lane east/west divided interstate trafficway. The east/west asphalt travel lanes were divided by a large (raised) grass median which curved left (with a positive grade) for westbound traffic. It was dark (no overhead street lamps); with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The speed limit at the crash site was 65 mph (105 km/h). Vehicle 1 was westbound and negotiating a left curve in the outboard lane when the driver failed to observe Vehicle 2 traveling at a slower steady speed in the same lane ahead. The frontal area of Vehicle 1 subsequently impacted the back of Vehicle 2. At this point, the vertical bumper height differential allowed the structure above Vehicle 1's bumper to engage the undercarriage of Vehicle 2 in an underride configuration. Impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1. Both vehicles sustained contact to final rest in close proximity to the point of impact (in the westbound outboard travel lane) facing west. The restrained 33 year old male driver of the 2007 Mazda 3 was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint usage was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force. Complete compression of the steering column shear capsules indicated possible driver loading through the deployed air bag. Following the collision, the restrained 33 year old male driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injury. Vehicle 1 was towed due to disabling damage as Vehicle 2 was driven from the scene.