This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 61 year old male driver and restrained 27 year old female front right passenger of a 2009 Toyota Yaris 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a W-beam guardrail (event 2). The case vehicle was also equipped with seatback mounted side air bags for the front outboard seating positions, and curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions (non-deployed). The crash occurred in the westbound lanes of a multi-lane east/west state highway, within an interchange area and just east of a bridge overpass. The roadway was divided, and bordered by, W-beam guardrails. The asphalt surface curved left (with an uphill grade) for westbound traffic, and transitioned into a straight (level) concrete surface on the bridge overpass. The bridge overpass was bordered by concrete (jersey) barrier walls located on the north/south paved shoulders. The speed limit at the crash site was 55 mph (89 km/h). It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 was traveling in the outboard westbound lane when the driver allowed it to enter the right (north) shoulder in a forward tracking mode. The frontal area of Vehicle 1 struck an orange highway construction barrel (event 1). This initial impact did not alter the vehicle's trajectory as it continued on the north shoulder in a westerly direction. The front right area of Vehicle 1 subsequently impacted a W-beam guardrail, which resulted in moderate damage (event 2). At this point, Vehicle 1 was re-directed back into the westbound travel lanes in a clockwise rotation, and across the path of a (westbound) 2010 Toyota Rav4. As Vehicle 1 crossed the westbound (center) travel lane, the front right area was struck by the front right area of Vehicle 2 (event 3). The impact with Vehicle 2 resulted in additional (overlapping) frontal damage to Vehicle 1, and compounded its clockwise rotation. Both vehicles were now re-directed towards the right (north) shoulder. The back area of Vehicle 1 impacted the concrete barrier resulting in moderate damage (event 4). Vehicle 1 was deflected off of the barrier and re-entered the westbound travel lanes where it came to final rest (on the bridge overpass) facing northwest. The front right area of Vehicle 2 also impacted the north barrier wall (event 5). Vehicle 2 came to rest on the north shoulder of the bridge overpass facing west. The restrained 61 year old male driver of the 2009 Toyota Yaris was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Event 1 was minor in nature, and produced little if no kinematic response from the occupant. At event 2, the driver initiated a forward and slightly lateral trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, knee bolster, and deployed frontal air bag. Scuff marks and panel displacement were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation noted to the aft reinforcement structure. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the smudge marks and scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. The driver continued the kinematic response into the center instrument panel cluster, as evidenced by the deformation identified on this component. The rear view mirror was found bent to the left (and broken off the mounting plate), with gray hair strands embedded into the contact site. A localized spider web type glazing fracture was also documented on the adjacent windshield. This contact damage was attributed to probable head contact by the driver. The third and fourth events re-directed the (out-of-position) driver forward and rearward, respectively; in response to the direction of force. However, redundant contact to interior components could not be identified. The restrained 27 year old female front right passenger of the 2009 Toyota Yaris was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a full rearward track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Event 1 was minor in nature, and produced little if no kinematic response from the occupant. At event 2, the passenger initiated a forward and slightly lateral trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, glove compartment door, and deployed frontal air bag. Pronounced indentations were identified on the glove compartment door, with small areas of skin tissue surrounding the contact site. A localized indentation was noted on the adjacent knee bolster, and attributed to passenger left lower extremity engagement. Makeup and scuff marks were documented across the face of the deployed front right passenger air bag, with areas of blood spatter dotting the top surface of the membrane. An indentation was also identified on the rear lower quadrant of the right front door interior surface, indicative of passenger right pelvic loading. The third and fourth events re-directed the (out-of-position) passenger forward and rearward, respectively; in response to the direction of force. However, redundant contact to interior components could not be identified. Following the crash, the front right passenger of Vehicle 1 was transported to a nearby trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injury. The driver of Vehicle 1 refused initial treatment on-scene, but sought treatment later at a trauma center and was admitted at that time for treatment of serious injury sustained in the collision. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.