This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 28 year old female front right passenger of a 2011 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal, side and curtain air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver's frontal air bag deployed and the front passenger's frontal, side and curtain air bags deployed as a result of an angled collision with a 2011 Honda Pilot 4-door utility vehicle (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was travelling westbound on a multi-lane (uphill grade) roadway attempting to travel through the 4-leg intersection. It was dark (with streetlights); with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The speed limit at the crash site was 35 mph (56 km/h). Traffic through the intersection was controlled by overhead tri-lights. Vehicle 2 was travelling southbound in the inboard through lane and proceeding straight (downhill grade/slight curve to the left). Before Vehicle #2 entered the intersection it impacted with Vehicle #3 and Vehicle #4. Vehicle #2 then continued into the intersection impacting Vehicle #1 in the front right with its front right. After the initial impact, Vehicle #1 rotated slightly counter clockwise traveling in a southwest direction to its final resting position. Vehicle #2 rotated clockwise 230 degrees before traveling to its final resting position in the west central location of the intersection. The restrained 28 year old female front right passenger of the 2011 Hyundai Elantra was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-forward most track position. Restraint usage was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the front right passenger initiated a forward and slightly lateral trajectory in response to the 1 o'clock impact force. Following the crash, the restrained 32 year old male driver, restrained 28 year old female front right passenger, and restrained (CSS) 3 year old male 2nd row left passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local trauma center for treatment of their injuries. The driver was treated and released and the 2nd row left occupant was admitted for treatment of his injuries. The front right passenger of Vehicle 1 was admitted for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision but was released after 3 days. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.