This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 24 year old male front right passenger of a 2008 Porsche 911 Turbo 2-door coupe. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags, seatback mounted side air bags, and door mounted side air bags for the driver (male) and front right passenger positions. The frontal air bags and right seat back/door mounted air bags deployed as a result of a right side impact with a large diameter tree (event 6). The crash occurred off the east pavement edge of a two-lane north/south (asphalt) rural roadway which curved left with a negative grade for northbound traffic. It was dark (street not lighted); with no adverse weather conditions the road was dry. The speed limit at the crash site was 35 mph (56 km/h). Traffic control at the crash site consisted of curve warning signs posted on the east shoulder for northbound vehicles. Vehicle 1 was initially northbound and negotiating a left curve. The vehicle reached the apex of the curve and departed the right (east) pavement edge in a counterclockwise rotation. The right side surface struck two U-channel posts which supported the curve warning signs (events 1 & 2). The signpost impacts did not alter the vehicle's trajectory as it continued in a northeasterly direction into a wooded ravine. The right side surface of Vehicle 1 subsequently struck three small tree saplings (events 3-5). These five events resulted in minor overlapping damage. At this point, the right side surface impacted a large diameter tree resulting in moderate damage (event 6). This final event re-directed the vehicle to the northwest in a clockwise rotation where it came to rest (in close proximity to the struck tree) facing northeast. The restrained 24 year old male front right passenger was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a full rearward track position. Restraint usage was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Events 1-5 were minor in nature, and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the occupants. At impact 6, the front right passenger initiated a lateral and forward trajectory in response to the 2 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, seatback/door mounted side air bags, and interior door surface. Interaction with the seatback and door mounted side air bags was evidenced by the scuff marks identified on the inboard surface of each membrane. A pronounced indentation was noted on the lower aspect of the door panel, and attributed to right lower extremity engagement. A distinct scuff mark documented on the rear upper quadrant of the door panel suggested possible right shoulder or flank contact. Although the right door window glazing was disintegrated (unknown event) during the crash sequence, coverage of the window opening by the deployed side air bags during event 6 mitigated any potential partial ejection of the front right passenger's head. Following the crash, the restrained 24 year old male driver, restrained 24 year old male front right passenger, and restrained 24 year old male rear left passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local trauma center. The driver and rear left passenger of Vehicle 1 were treated and released, as the front right passenger was admitted for further treatment of serious injury. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.