This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 46 year old female driver of a 2004 Pontiac Vibe 4-door wagon. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal and seatback mounted side air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions (non-deployed). The case vehicle sustained minor damage as a result of a narrow frontal collision with a parked 2000 Volkswagen Golf 2-door hatchback (event 1). The crash occurred off the east pavement edge of a north/south 4-lane (level) rural roadway. The north/southbound (asphalt) lanes were divided by a raised grass median, and bordered by private driveways. A 3-leg intersection was located just south of the crash site, which was controlled by overhead tri-lights. It was daylight; with snowy weather conditions as the roads were reportedly covered in ice. The speed limit at the crash site was 45 mph (72 km/h). Vehicle 1 was initially northbound in the outboard travel lane when the driver began to decelerate and maneuver onto the right (east) shoulder in an attempt to enter a private driveway. At this point, the vehicle broke traction on the ice covered road surface and departed the east shoulder onto private property. The driver attempted to regain control by braking and steering left; however, the vehicle continued in a northeasterly direction towards a group of parked cars. The front right area of Vehicle 1 impacted the left front side surface of a parked 2000 Volkswagen Golf resulting in minor damage (event 1). Vehicle 1's right side surface subsequently sideswiped the back surface of a second parked vehicle (Chevrolet S-10 pickup truck - model year unknown), which resulted in additional minor damage (event 2). Vehicle 1 came to rest in close proximity to the final point of impact (off the east pavement edge of the road) facing northwest. The restrained 46 year old female driver of the 2004 Pontiac Vibe was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. The driver reported to police that she was restrained, which was confirmed by the absence of contact evidence to interior components relative to the occupant kinematic response path. At event 1, the driver initiated a forward and slightly lateral trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock direction of force. The second event was minor in nature, and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the occupant. The restrained driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 sought treatment later and was subsequently admitted for treatment of serious injury sustained in the collision. The case vehicle was towed from the crash site with non-disabling damage.