This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 29 year old male seated in the front left seating position (Driver) with a deployed frontal air bag who sustained severe injuries. The crash occurred in the early morning hours (dark with street lights) in dry and clear weather within the confines of a 4-legged intersection. The asphalt (level) north/south traffic way consisted of four northbound lanes (two straight, one right and one left turn lane) separated by a grassy median and four southbound travel lanes (two straight, one right and one left turn lane). The north/south traffic way is intersected by asphalt (level) east/west travel lanes consisting of four eastbound lanes (two straight, one right and one left turn lane) and four westbound travel lanes (two straight, one right and one left turn lane). There were overhead traffic control devices for all traffic ways. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 35 mph (56 km/h). The case vehicle (V1), a 2003 four-door Dodge Dakota Quad cab pickup was being driven northbound in the straight inboard travel lane. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Isuzu Rodeo SUV was traveling eastbound in the straight inboard lane. Vehicle #1 was traveling northbound and Vehicle #2 was traveling eastbound. As both vehicles entered the intersection, the front of V2 impacted with the left side of V1. After initial impact V1 rotated slightly clockwise as it traveled to its final resting position in the northeast quadrant of the intersection. V2 rotated slightly counter clockwise and traveled to its final resting position in the northeast quadrant of the intersection. V1 and V2 were both towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V1 was driven by a 29 year old male case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt. The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed in the crash at this seating position. This case occupant's seat track was positioned at full back and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. The case occupant was severely injured and transported to a local hospital before being transferred to a level 1 trauma center by air transportation for treatment of his injuries. It should be noted that the case occupant was wearing a bullet proof vest at the time of the crash.