This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 54 year old female driver of a 2008 Kia Spectra 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), seat back mounted side air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The case vehicle sustained moderate damage as a result of an offset frontal collision with a 2004 Chevrolet K1500 Silverado 4x4 pickup truck (Vehicle 2). None of the case vehicle's air bags deployed as a result of the collision. Vehicle 1 was westbound on approach to a (level) 4-leg rural intersection, and proceeding straight. Vehicle 2 was eastbound and attempting to turn left (north) at the same intersection. It was dark (street not lighted); with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The speed limit at the crash site was 55 mph (89 km/h). Traffic through the intersection was controlled by overhead tri-lights. Vehicle 2 initiated the left turn, across the path of the westbound Kia. As Vehicle 2 crossed the westbound travel lane, the front right area was impacted by the front left area of Vehicle 1. Impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1. The variance between the bumper heights, combined with possible pre-impact braking by Vehicle 1's driver, allowed the structure above the level of the bumper to engage the undercarriage of Vehicle 2 in an underride configuration. At this point, both vehicles were re-directed into the north sector of the intersection. Vehicle 1 came to rest in the northbound travel lane facing northeast, as Vehicle 2 came to rest straddling the centerline facing north. The restrained 54 year old female driver of the 2008 Kia Spectra 4-door sedan was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a full rearward track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver initiated a forward and lateral trajectory in response to the 11 o'clock impact force. Following the crash, the restrained 54 year old female driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital for treatment. She was subsequently transferred to a nearby trauma center and admiited for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.