This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 61 year old female front right passenger of a 2004 Toyota 4-Runner SR5 4-door 4x4 sport utility vehicle. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions (non-deployed). The case vehicle sustained moderate right side surface damage as a result of a right angle collision with a 2006 Ford E250 Econoline cargo van (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred within an urban 4-leg intersection. The north/south asphalt (level) roadway consisted of four travel lanes as the asphalt (level) one-way eastbound roadway consisted of two travel lanes. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by overhead tri-lights. It was dark (street lighted); with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 35 mph (56 km/h). Vehicle 1 was southbound in the outboard travel lane and proceeding straight on approach to the 4-leg intersection. Vehicle 2 was eastbound on the inboard travel lane and also proceeding straight on approach to the same intersection. As both vehicles entered the intersection, the right side surface of Vehicle 1 was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2 (event 1). The impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, Vehicle 1 began to rotate clockwise along its post-impact trajectory towards the southeast sector of the intersection. The sudden clockwise rotation, in conjunction with the lateral movement against the asphalt surface, tipped Vehicle 1's center of gravity outboard of its wheels. This mechanism produced a roll moment which initiated a 2-quarter turn left side rollover resulting in moderate top damage (event 2). Vehicle 1 came to rest on its roof (upside down) in the southeast sector of the intersection facing southwest. Vehicle 2 came to rest in the intersection facing southeast. The restrained 61 year old female front right passenger of the 2004 Toyota 4-Runner was presumed to be in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact 1, the front right passenger initiated a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 3 o'clock impact force. Following the collision, the restrained 61 year old male driver of Vehicle 1 complained of injury but refused any treatment. The restrained 61 year old female front right passenger of Vehicle 1 was transported to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injury sustained in the crash. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to police reported disabling damage.