This frontal crash case involves an 18 year old restrained male case occupant seated in the front left seating position (Driver) with a deployed frontal air bag who sustained moderate injuries. There was also a 14 year old restrained female non-case occupant seated in the front right seating position with a deployed frontal air bag. The crash occurred in the evening hours (dark no street lights) in snowy weather within the confines of a T-Intersection. There are two North/South bituminous travel lanes (one lane in each direction) that are separated by a double yellow line. The North/South travel lanes are intersected by two East/West bituminous travel lanes (one in each direction). The posted speed limit at the crash site was 45 mph (72 km/h) and there were no traffic controls present. At the point of impact the roadway sags for north and south travel lanes. The case vehicle (V1), a 2005 four-door Toyota 4-Runner was being driven northbound and Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 four-door Ford Excursion was traveling southbound. Vehicle three (V3), a 2002 four-door Ford Exployer was traveling southbound in front of V2. Vehicle #3 was traveling southbound when it began to execute a left turn in order to travel east. Vehicle #2 (traveling behind V3) was unable to stop or slow down due to the icy roadway and steered into the northbound travel lane as it entered the intersection. V2 tried to steer back into the southbound lane but was unable to and impacted its front left bumper with the front left bumper of V1. After initial impact, V1 began to rotate counterclockwise, impacting V3's rear-end with its right side (minor damage) before traveling to its final rest in the middle of the intersection facing northwest. After initial impact, V2 traveled in a southerly direction, traveling to final rest in the southbound travel lane just south of the intersection. Vehicle #3 traveled to final rest in the East quadrant of the intersection. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. V3 received minor damage and was driven from the scene. V1 was driven by an 18 year old male case occupant who was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt. The retractor type pretensioner did actuate in the crash. The available steering wheel mounted air bag deployed but the seat back and roof side rail air bags did not deploy in the crash. This case occupant's seat track was positioned between middle and full back and the seat back was in the slightly reclined position. This occupant was injured in the crash and transported to a local hospital before being transferred to a level 1 trauma center for treatment of his injuries. There was a 14 year old female non -case occupant seated in the front right seating position and was restrained by the available 3-point manual belt (retractor type pretensioner actuated). The available frontal (IP) air bag deployed as a result of the frontal impact but the seat back and roof side rail air bags did not. This non-case occupant was treated and released a level one trauma center the same day.