This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 74 year old female driver of a 2005 Toyota Prius 4-door hatchback. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal/seat back mounted side air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions, and curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions. The driver frontal air bag, right front side air bag, and right curtain air bag deployed as a result of an oblique angled impact with a 2009 Hyundai Sonata GLS 4-door sedan (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred at a 4-leg urban intersection. The east/west trafficway consisted of 6 (asphalt) travel lanes which were divided by a raised curbed median, with a negative grade for eastbound vehicles. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by overhead tri-lights. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 72 km/h (45 mph). Vehicle 1 was initially eastbound on the inboard left turn lane when the driver entered the intersection and began to turn left in an attempt to proceed north. Vehicle 2 was westbound in the outboard through lane and proceeding straight. Vehicle 1 crossed the westbound lanes, across the path of the westbound Hyundai. The right side surface of Vehicle 1 was subsequently impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2. Impact resulted in moderate damage to each vehicle. At this point, both vehicles were re-directed towards the northwest sector of the intersection and came to final rest facing northwest. The restrained 74 year old female driver of the 2005 Toyota Prius was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-forward track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the (faint) loading marks documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver initiated a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 2 o'clock impact force. Following the collision, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injury. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.