This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 23 year old female driver of a 2006 Chevrolet Cobalt LS 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal air bag deployed as a result of a full frontal head-on collision with a 1995 Toyota Corolla Levin 2-door coupe (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a 6-lane north/south divided state trafficway. The asphalt surfaced trafficway was divided by a grass median and curved right for northbound vehicles. In the vicinity of the crash, the northbound roadway transitioned from 2 to 4 travel lanes which crested from a sag area farther south. It was dark; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 55 mph (89/kmh). There were no traffic controls present. The case vehicle was northbound on the inboard through lane and proceeding straight when the driver observed Vehicle 2 traveling southbound (in the northbound lanes) ahead. Upon recognition of the impending harmful event, the driver of Vehicle 1 braked in avoidance of Vehicle 2. The impact occurred in a full frontal configuration resulting in severe damage to both vehicles. At this point, each vehicle rotated slightly clockwise and rebounded to final rest in the northbound lanes. Vehicle 1 came to rest facing northeast as Vehicle 2 came to rest facing southwest. The restrained 23 year old female driver of the 2006 Chevrolet Cobalt LS was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force. The upper and lower sections of the steering wheel rim were deformed, indicative of possible driver loading through the deployed air bag. It should also be noted that full compression of the steering column shear capsules was found. The brake pedal was mashed to the floor and bent left which was attributed to driver pre-impact braking. Cratering was identified on the left front seat cushion, attributed to driver pelvic and lower extremity loading. The left front seat back was also noted to be deformed rearward, indicative of possible driver rebounding following vehicle maximum engagement. Following the collision, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a nearby trauma center by air and admitted for treatment of serious injury. The driver of Vehicle 2 was pronounced deceased at the scene. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to police reported disabling damage.