This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 55 year old female driver of a 2011 Hyundai Sonata 2.0T Limited 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal/seat back mounted side air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver frontal air bag, left front side air bag, and left curtain air bag deployed as a result of an oblique angled impact with a 2014 Volkswagen CC 4-door sedan (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred within an urban 4-leg intersection. The east/west trafficway consisted of 6 asphalt surfaced (level) travel lanes which were divided by a curbed grass median, and curved right for westbound vehicles. The north leg of the north/south roadway consisted of 3 asphalt surfaced travel lanes which also curved right (with a negative grade) for southbound vehicles. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by overhanging tri-lights. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 45 mph (72 km/h). It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 was southbound in the outboard through lane and proceeding straight through the intersection. Vehicle 2 was westbound in the outboard through lane also proceeding straight through the intersection. As both vehicles entered the intersection, the left side surface of Vehicle 1 was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2. The impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, both vehicles were re-directed towards the southwest and came to rest in the westbound travel lanes (adjacent to the center median) facing southwest. The restrained 55 year old female driver of the 2011 Hyundai Sonata was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-forward track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver of Vehicle 1 initiated a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 9 o'clock impact force. Following the collision, the restrained driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to police reported disabling damage.