This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 50 year old male driver of a 2013 Ford Focus Titanium 4-dr sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags, seatback mounted side air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), a driver knee bolster air bag, and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver frontal air bag, knee bolster air bag, side air bag, and (left/right) curtain air bags deployed as a result of a severe offset frontal collision with a large diameter tree (event 1). The crash occurred off the east road edge of a 2-lane north/south rural roadway, just north of a private driveway. The asphalt surfaced roadway was level and straight. In the vicinity of the crash site, the roadway was bordered to the west by a fence, and to the east by private driveways and stands of trees. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. The posted speed limit in the vicinity of the crash site was 55 mph (89 km/h). The case vehicle was initially northbound and proceeding straight when the driver of V1 became incapacitated and the vehicle drifted right and off the road edge. Vehicle 1 traversed a private driveway and continued a northeasterly trajectory towards a stand of trees. The case vehicle's front right area subsequently impacted a large diameter tree resulting in severe damage (event 1). At this point, Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise as an unknown location of V1 struck an adjacent, smaller diameter tree which resulted in minor damage (event 2). Vehicle 1 came to rest in close proximity to the final point of impact (off of the east road edge) facing southwest. The 50 year old male driver of the 2013 Ford Focus was presumed to be postured abnormally leaning slightly to the right, with the seat adjusted to a full rearward track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. In addition, the driver restraint was noted to be locked in the used/out position by retractor pretensioner deployment. Following the collision, the restrained 50 year old male driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported (via air) to a local trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injury. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.