This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 29 year old male driver of a 2004 Volvo V70 station wagon. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags, seat back mounted side air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver and front right passenger air bags deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a large diameter tree (event 4). The crash occurred off the west pavement edge of a 2-lane north/south rural roadway. The asphalt surfaced roadway was level and curved left for southbound traffic. The roadway was bordered to the east by stands of trees and to the west by a drainage ditch and wooden fence. The posted speed limit in the vicinity of the crash site was 55 mph (89 km/h). There was no traffic control present. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. Vehicle 1 was initially southbound on the straightaway and entered the left curve. As the case vehicle approached the apex of the road curvature, it continued in a forward tracking mode towards the right (west) pavement edge. Vehicle 1 descended the super-elevation of the west shoulder as the undercarriage struck a drainage ditch resulting in moderate damage (event 1). The impact did not alter the vehicle's trajectory as it continued in a southwesterly direction towards a roadside fence. The frontal area impacted the wooden fence, as sustained contact occurred along the vehicle's right side surface and left side surface (event 2). At this point, wooden shards and pieces of the struck fence posts became airborne projectiles. This fence debris struck the case vehicle's hood and greenhouse areas which resulted in minor damage (event 3). Vehicle 1 continued tracking as the front right area subsequently impacted a large diameter tree resulting in severe damage (event 4). Following maximum engagement with the struck tree, Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise and rebounded slightly to the northeast coming to rest (off the west road edge) facing southwest. The 29 year old male driver of the 2004 Volvo V70 station wagon was presumed to be abnormally postured, leaning slightly to the right with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. The lack of restraint use was evidenced by the absence of loading marks on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, relative to the extent of occupant contacts across interior frontal components. In addition, the front retractor pretensioners were noted to be non-deployed. The first two events possibly placed the driver further out-of-position to the right; however, the lack of any kinematic influence by these events only confirmed the driver's pre-impact posturing. The third event probably did not produce any occupant kinematic response from the driver, but the intrusion of fence debris into the interior passenger compartment was identified to be a source of driver injury during the fourth and final event. At impact 4, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force Following the collision, the unrestrained driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injury. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.