This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 19 year old female driver of a 2007 Scion TC 2-door vehicle. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right seating positions and a knee bolster air bag for the driver. The driver frontal air bag and knee bolster air bags deployed during a multi-event crash scenario (events 1-4). The crash occurred off of the northbound pavement edge of a four-lane (two northbound/ two southbound travel lanes) roadway. The north and south travel lanes are separated by a double yellow line. The (level) asphalt surfaced roadway was bordered on both sides by a shoulder and then grassy areas with trees. There were no traffic controls present. The speed limit at the crash site was 80 km/h (50 mph). It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. The case vehicle was initially northbound on a straightaway in the outboard travel lane when the driver traveled off the north pavement edge and continue in a northeasterly direction while the vehicle was yawing in a clockwise direction. Vehicle 1 subsequently entered a grassy area and impacted a utility pole with the front right bumper (angularly), which resulted in moderate damage (event 1). V1 then rotated sharply off the utility pole (continuing in a clockwise rotation) and with the left side leading began to rollover (event #2) one quarter turn before impacting a second utility pole (event #3, interrupted roll) with its front hood, just in front of the windshield. After impacting the utility pole (event #2) V1 rotated 120 degrees (on its left side) and impacted a third utility pole (event #4, interrupted roll) with its left side. V1 then impacted a sign post and a sapling (event #5 & #6) before beginning to roll back the opposite direction onto its wheels (right side leading) and continued to roll an additional 4 quarter turns before traveling to its final resting position on its wheels facing west. From the beginning of the rollover to its final resting position, V1 rolled over a total of six quarter turns (one left side leading initial 1/4 turn and then five additional right side leading 1/4 turns). The restrained 19 year old female driver of the 2007 Scion TC was presumed to be in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact 1, the driver initiated a forward and left trajectory in response to the 11 o'clock impact force (and yaw) and loaded the manual restraint, left door, A-pillar and deployed driver frontal air bag. Following the collision, the restrained driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported by air to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of severe injury. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.