This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 29 year old male driver of a 2010 Chrysler Sebring 2004-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags, seat back mounted side air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver’s frontal, seat back mounted and curtain air bags deployed as a result of this frontal impact to V1. Vehicle #1 sustained moderate frontal damage as a result of impacting the back of an unknown year/make/model garbage truck (V2). The crash occurred within the confines of an interchange. The asphalt surfaced north/southbound travel lanes were divided by a concrete median (curb) without a positive barrier. There are three northbound (uphill) travel lanes (two through lanes and one off-ramp) and three southbound (downhill) travel lanes (two through lanes and one off-ramp). The trafficway crested just north of the crash site, as the posted speed limit was 50 mph (80 km/h). It was daylight and cloudy; with dry roads. Vehicle 1 was initially northbound in the outboard travel lane and proceeding straight. Vehicle #2 was initially stopped in the outboard travel lane due to traffic backed up on the north off-ramp. As Vehicle 1 approached the off-ramp, the driver of V1 was unable to avoid impacting the front of his vehicle with the back of Vehicle 2. After initial impact V1 rotated slightly before traveling to its final resting position just a few feet forward from initial impact. The unrestrained 29 year old male driver of the 2010 Chrysler Sebring was presumed to be normally postured, with the seat adjusted to a mid-track position and the seat back was at the slightly reclined position. Following the collision, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital and subsequently transferred to a nearby trauma center where he was admitted for treatment of serious injury. Vehicle 1 and 2 were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.