This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 83 year old female driver of a 2015 Volkswagen Jetta 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags, side air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver frontal air bag and left/right curtain air bags deployed as a result of an oblique angled collision with a 2010 Toyota Camry (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred at a 4-leg urban intersection between a multi-lane divided east/west state trafficway and 2-lane north/south rural roadway. The east/west (level) asphalt surfaced trafficway was divided by a grass median and curved left for westbound vehicles. Designated turn lanes within the trafficway provided access to business parking lots and residential connectors. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by stop signs for north/southbound vehicles turning onto the main (east/west) thoroughfare. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The speed limit in the vicinity of the crash site was 45 mph (72 km/h) on the main thoroughfare and 25 mph (40 km/h) on the connecting roadway. The case vehicle was initially westbound and entered the left turn lane to proceed south onto the 2-lane connector. Vehicle 2 was eastbound in the outboard through lane of the east/west trafficway and proceeding straight on approach to the 4-leg intersection. Following a complete stop, Vehicle 1 began to turn left across the eastbound travel lanes, into the path of the eastbound Toyota. As Vehicle 1 crossed the eastbound travel lanes, the front right area impacted the left front side surface of Vehicle 2 (event 1). The impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, Vehicle 1 rotated sharply counterclockwise as the right rear side surface struck the left rear side surface of Vehicle 2 in a secondary "sideslap" configuration (event 2). This event resulted in minor damage to the case vehicle. The initial impact re-directed Vehicle 2 towards the southeast sector of the intersection where the frontal area subsequently struck the left side surface of Vehicle 3, a 2008 Toyota Highlander sport utility which was stopped and facing northeast on the 2-lane connector (event 3). Vehicle 1 came to rest in close proximity to the secondary event (across the eastbound travel lanes) facing southeast. Vehicles 2 and 3 came to rest in close proximity to the final event within the southeast sector of the intersection facing southeast and northeast, respectively. Following the collision, the restrained 83 year old female driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported (via ground) to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injury. All 3 vehicles were reported by police to have been towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.