This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 61 year old female driver of a 2009 Toyota Corolla LE, 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags, (seat back mounted) side air bags for the driver/front right passenger positions, and curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions. The case vehicle sustained moderate left side damage as a result of an angled impact with an unknown year/make and model passenger vehicle (Vehicle #2). The driver’s torso & curtain air bags deployed as a result of the crash. The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a four legged intersection with the north leg (shopping center entrance/exit) only being accessed by westbound right turn traffic or southbound traffic exiting the shopping center to travel west. You cannot enter the north leg from the eastbound direction or from the northbound direction. The asphalt surfaced east/west trafficway consisted of 3 travel lanes divided by a raised (curbed) concrete median. The southern leg consisted of two travel lanes (one north/one south) separated by a double yellow line. The posted speed limit for north/south traffic was 25 mph (40km/h) and the intersection was controlled by a stop sign. The posted speed limit for east/west traffic was 35 mph (56 km/h). It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were level and dry. Vehicle 1 was stopped at the intersection (stop sign) facing northbound and attempted to enter the intersection in an attempt to execute a left turn when it was impacted on the driver’s door (left side) by the front of V2 (event #1) who was traveling eastbound in an attempt to travel through the intersection. At this point, each vehicle was re-directed towards the northeast quadrant of the intersection along their post-impact trajectories. V1 traveled off the roadedge impacting the curb with its left front wheel (event #2) and traveled to its final resting position down into a culvert. V2 traveled to its final resting position on the west through lane facing northeast. It should be noted that while V1 was at its final resting position it had disrupted a bees nest and a massive amount of bees were swarming around our case occupant. The fire/rescue squad was able to attach a cable to the rear of the vehicle and pull it out of the culvert. It is unknown if this caused any additional damage to the exterior of V1. Following the collision, the restrained driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported by ambulance from the scene to a nearby hospital and then later transferred to a trauma center (by ambulance) and admitted for treatment of her severe injuries. Vehicle #1 and Vehicle #2 were both towed from the crash site.