This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 63 year old female driver of a 2012 GMC Terrain SLE sport utility. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags, seat back mounted side air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver frontal air bag and left/right curtain air bags deployed as a result of a multi-event crash envelope with a stand of trees. The crash occurred in the center median area of a 4-lane divided east/west interstate trafficway. The eastbound roadway consisted of 2 (straight) asphalt surfaced, level travel lanes which were bordered to the north by a narrow paved shoulder and a wide paved shoulder to the south. The paved shoulders included a tactile warning device (i.e. "rumble strip"). The center median consisted of a wide, heavily wooded area which provided a natural barrier between the east and westbound travel lanes. The posted speed limit in the vicinity of the crash site was 70 mph (113 km/h). It was dark; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 was initially eastbound on the inboard travel lane and proceeding straight. V1 then drifted off and departed the left (north) road edge in a forward tracking mode and entered the center median. Vehicle 1 penetrated the wooded area as the top surface swiped overhanging limbs from an adjacent large tree (event 1). This initial event resulted in minor damage to the vehicle's roof surface. Vehicle 1's front struck a group of large brush which resulted in minor damage (event 2). The vehicle's front area subsequently impacted a large diameter tree resulting in severe damage (event 3). At this point, the struck tree became partially uprooted and tilted heavily forward as the upper trunk was sheared. The sheared portion of the tree trunk impacted the vehicle's roof structure resulting in moderate top damage (event 4). During the final moments of penetration into this wooded area, the vehicle's right side surface sideswiped another large diameter tree which resulted in moderate damage (event 5). Vehicle 1 came to rest in close proximity the final event (within the center median) facing northeast. Following the collision, the restrained driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injury. The case vehicle was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.