This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 69 year old male driver of a 2011 Hyundai Sonata GLS 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags, seatback mounted side air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver and passenger frontal air bags deployed as a result of a right angle impact with a 2003 Dodge Ram 2500 series Quad Cab 4x4 pickup truck (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred at a 4-leg intersection between a multi-lane state trafficway and 2-lane rural connector. The (level) concrete surfaced north/south trafficway consisted of 7 travel lanes divided by a grass median. The (level) asphalt surfaced east/west 2-lane rural roadway was controlled by stop signs for intersecting traffic. The posted speed limit in the vicinity of the crash site was 97 km/h (60 mph) for the north/south trafficway and 48 km/h (30 mph) for the east/west roadway. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The case vehicle was initially northbound in the outboard travel lane of the north/south state trafficway and proceeding straight on approach to the crossover junction. Vehicle 2 was eastbound on the rural connector and entered the crossover from the west sector to proceed eastbound. Vehicle 2 subsequently crossed the northbound lanes into the path of the northbound Hyundai. As Vehicle 2 crossed the northbound (outboard) travel lane, the right rear side surface was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 1. The impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, both vehicles began their respective post-impact trajectories towards the northeast sector of the intersection. Vehicle 1 came to rest in the northeast corner (of the intersection) facing northeast. Vehicle 2 rotated clockwise and came to rest in the northeast sector of the intersection (in the westbound lane of the rural connector) facing west. Following the collision, the restrained 69 year old male driver of Vehicle 1 was transported (via ground) to a local hospital for treatment. He was subsequently transferred to a nearby trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injury sustained in the crash. The restrained (unknown aged) adult female front right passenger, restrained (unknown aged) adult male rear left passenger, and unrestrained (unknown aged) adult female rear right passenger of Vehicle 1 were reported by police as uninjured in the crash. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.