This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 38 year old male driver of a 2013 Volkswagen Jetta GLI 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), seatback mounted side air bags (for the front outboard seating positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver frontal air bag and left/right curtain air bags deployed as a result of a frontal collision with the right side of a 2015 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of an urban 4-leg intersection. The asphalt surfaced east/west trafficway consisted of 6 (level) travel lanes which were divided by a raised concrete median. Designated left turn lanes provided access to the intersecting north/south multi-lane trafficway. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by overhanging tri-lights, as the posted speed limit was 45 mph (72 km/h). It was dark (but lighted); with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The case vehicle was westbound on the outboard through lane intending on proceeding straight through the intersection. Vehicle #2 was in the eastbound left turn lane attempting to execute a left turn. As both vehicles entered the intersection, the front right surface of Vehicle 1 impacted the right side of Vehicle 2 resulting in moderate damage to both vehicles. At this point, each vehicle began their post-impact trajectories towards the northwest sector of the intersection. Vehicles 1 and 2 traveled a short distance after initial impact and came to their final resting positions in the northwest quadrant of the intersection facing northwest. The restrained 38 year old male driver of Vehicle 1 was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a full-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, which was also noted to be locked in the used/out position by retractor pretensioner deployment. Following the collision, the restrained driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center (via ground) and admitted for treatment of serious injury. Both involved vehicles were towed from the crash scene due to disabling damage.