This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 77-year-old female driver of a 2013 Toyota Prius V 4-door hatchback. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags, knee bolster air bags, seatback mounted side air bags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), and curtain air bags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver frontal air bag, knee bolster air bag, seat back mounted side air bag, and left/right curtain air bags deployed as a result of a moderate severity dual event crash envelope with a 2015 Honda CR-V EXL sport utility (Vehicle 2). The crash occurred within a rural 3-leg "T" intersection which was controlled by overhead tri-lights. The (level) south leg of the intersection consisted of 3 asphalt surfaced travel lanes divided by a narrow grass median. In the south leg, two (straight) northbound lanes approaching the intersection provided turning vehicles access to the (3-lane) east/west connecting trafficway. The (straight) east/west asphalt surfaced trafficway intersected with the north/south trafficway atop a hillcrest, which provided a limited sight distance for approaching vehicles. In the west leg, the trafficway was divided by a wide painted (flush) median as the eastbound roadway consisted of one through lane and one right turn lane. The posted speed limit in the vicinity of the crash site was 56 km/h (35 mph) for north/southbound vehicles, and 72 km/h (45 mph) for east/westbound vehicles. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 was northbound on the inboard left turn lane on approach to the 3-leg intersection. Vehicle 2 was eastbound on the inboard through lane and proceeding straight. As both vehicles entered the intersection, the front left area of Vehicle 1 impacted the right front side surface of Vehicle 2 (event 1). The impact resulted in moderate damage to the case vehicle. The impact re-directed each vehicle towards the northeast sector of the intersection. During its post-impact trajectory, Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise as the left rear side surface subsequently struck the right side surface of Vehicle 2 in a secondary "sideslap" configuration (event 2). The impact resulted in additional moderate damage to the case vehicle. Both vehicles came to rest in the grassy area beyond the north sector of the intersection facing northeast. The 77-year-old female driver of the 2013 Toyota Prius was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the extensive loading marks documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact 1, the driver initiated a forward (and lateral) trajectory in response to the 11 o'clock impact force. At impact 2, the (now out-of-position) driver kinematic was re-directed to the left in response to the 9 o'clock impact force. Following the collision, the driver (and sole occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported (via ground) to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injury. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to police reported disabling damage.