This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 20-year-old male belted driver with deployed front airbags. This case occupant was driving an intermediate size sedan when it was involved in a sideswipe impact to another intermediate size sedan, followed by a head-on impact to a large tree. The case vehicle sustained severe damage. This occupant sustained serious injuries in the crash. The case vehicle was also occupied by a second case occupant, a 23-year-old male belted right front passenger. He also had the benefit of deployed front airbags; he sustained severe injuries. The crash occurred late afternoon under clear skies on a dry suburban road. A 2016 Subaru Impreza intermediate size sedan (Vehicle 1) was traveling northeast on a two-lane, two-way road negotiating a right curve. The grade was 6% uphill with 3% superelevation in the curve. A 2003 Ford Taurus intermediate size sedan was traveling southwest in the opposite direction on a 5% downhill grade. While negotiating the right curve, Vehicle 1 possibly attempted to pass a slower vehicle. V1 began a moderate clockwise yaw as it departed its lane to the left before departing the left side of the road. V1 then returned to the road and struck the right plane of V2 with its right plane (Event 1). V2 came to rest a short distance from impact. V1 departed the left side of the road again where it struck a large tree with its front plane (Event 2). The tree had a diameter of 90 cm by 80 cm. After impact with the tree, V1 rebounded two meters backwards, coming to rest on the northwest roadside. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case vehicle was occupied by a 20-year-old male belted driver. He was wearing the available lap and shoulder belt as evidenced by at least 37 cm of shoulder belt payout and latch plate loading. The driver was 185 cm (6'1") tall, but was using the upper anchorage adjustment in the lowest position. The retractor pretensioner was actuated. No buckle or anchor pretensioners were installed. The steering wheel hub, driver's knee bolster, and right front instrument panel airbags deployed in the crash. Non-deployed airbags included the first row outboard seat back and both curtain airbags. This occupant was transported to a trauma center for treatment of serious injuries. V1 was also occupied by a 23-year-old male belted right front passenger. He was wearing the available lap and shoulder belt as evidenced by at least 50 cm of shoulder belt payout and latch plate loading. His retractor and anchor pretensioners were actuated. No buckle pretensioner was installed. He had the benefit of the right front instrument panel airbag. He was transported to a trauma center for treatment of serious injuries.