This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 17 year old male front right passenger of a 2007 Mazda 3 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a 1995 Ford Explorer XL 4-door 4x4 sport utility (Vehicle 2). The case vehicle was also equipped with (seat back mounted) side impact air bags for the front outboard seating positions, and side curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions (non-deployed). Vehicle 1 was westbound on a two-lane rural roadway and entering a left curve on a downhill grade. Vehicle 2 was eastbound on the same roadway, and negotiating a right curve. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. Vehicle 2 reached the apex of the curve and crossed the centerline into the path of Vehicle 1. Upon recognition of the impending harmful event, the driver of Vehicle 1 steered left in avoidance and entered the eastbound travel lane. At this point, the driver of Vehicle 2 steered right in an attempt to re-enter the eastbound lane. As both vehicles entered the eastbound travel lane, the front right area of Vehicle 1 impacted the front right area of Vehicle 2. Impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1. At impact, Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise and departed the left (south) pavement edge where it came to rest facing west. Vehicle 2 came to rest in the eastbound lane facing northeast. The restrained 17 year old male front right passenger of the 2007 Mazda 3 was presumed to be seated in an abnormal posture (torso leaning), with his legs crossed. The front right seat was adjusted to a full rearward track position. Restraint usage was evidenced by the loading marks and fabric transfers documented on the available front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. In addition, the belt was restricted in the used (out) position by pretensioner deployment. At impact 1, the front right passenger initiated a forward (and slightly lateral) trajectory in response to the 1 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, glove compartment door, and deployed front right passenger airbag. Scratch marks and indentations were identified on the glove compartment door, which was also out of place. A localized indentation was also noted on the adjacent knee bolster. Interaction with the deployed front right passenger air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented across the face of the membrane. In addition, possible paint transfers found along the top and rear aspect of the deployed passenger air bag suggest contact by (intruded) exterior surfaces. The forward aspect of the center console was heavily scratched and deformed to the left. Following the crash, both occupants of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local trauma center. The restrained 16 year old female driver's treatment status was unknown, as the front right passenger of Vehicle 1 was admitted for treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.