This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 27 year old male driver of a 2004 Chevrolet Impala SS 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a residential structure (event 14). The case vehicle was also equipped with a (seat back mounted) side impact air bag for the driver seating position (non-deployed). Vehicle 1 was westbound on a two-lane rural roadway and negotiating an "S" curve. Vehicle 1 entered a right curve and subsequently departed the left (south) road edge in a counterclockwise rotation. The vehicle traversed a private yard as the right front wheel struck a small bush. This (minor) initial impact did not alter the vehicle's trajectory as it continued in a southwesterly direction towards a private residence. The right rear side surface impacted two guide wires supporting an adjacent utility pole (events 2 & 3). Impact resulted in moderate damage to the vehicle, and fractured the upper portion of the utility pole. These (simultaneous) secondary impacts also re-directed the vehicle's rotation clockwise into subsequent impacts. Vehicle 1 dragged the severed guide wires across the driveway, as the fractured section of pole (still tethered to the support wires) struck a garage and parked vehicle (non-codable events). Vehicle 1 struck additional landscaping, bushes, and sideswiped the front brick façade of the residence, which resulted in minor damage (events 4 - 13). At this point, the front left area impacted a concrete/brick porch structure resulting in moderate damage (event 14). A beam supporting the porch awning fractured and struck the vehicle's hood surface (event 15). Vehicle 1 came to rest at the final point of impact facing southwest. The unrestrained 27 year old male driver of the 2004 Chevrolet Impala was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a full rearward track position. The police reported that the driver was restrained; however, interior evidence indicated that the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt was not used. The lack of restraint use was evidenced by the extent of contacts within the driver space, relative to the absence of loading marks on the belt system. This was confirmed by the vehicle's Event Data Recorder (EDR), which recorded the driver belt switch as "unbuckled". Impact 1 was minor in nature and produced little if no kinematic response from the occupant; however, subsequent impacts placed the driver out-of-position. At impact 14, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the knee bolster and deployed frontal air bag. Indentations and scuff marks were documented on the left knee bolster. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the fabric transfers and scuff marks identified across the face of the membrane. Panel fractures and displacement of the center instrument cluster (i.e. radio/climate controls) indicated possible upper extremity contact. At this point, the driver loaded through the deployed frontal air bag and deformed the steering wheel rim, evidenced by the deformation documented on this component. Column compression was also noted at the shear capsules. Extensive deformation was identified along the center console area. The entire console was completely destroyed, with the gearshift found flattened against the floorpan. A pronounced indentation documented on the left front door panel suggested a re-directed occupant kinematic, induced during vehicle spinout. The sequencing of this occupant contact could not be determined, but possibly attributed to the impact with the house façade (event 11). Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital for treatment of serious injuries. The driver was subsequently transferred to a trauma center and admitted for further treatment. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.