This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a 15-year-old male driver of a 2005 Buick Rendezvous compact utility vehicle. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal airbag deployed as a result of an oblique angle collision with a 2002 Chevrolet Tahoe large utility (Vehicle 2). V1 was westbound on a two-lane rural road, slowing to turn left into a private driveway. V2 was eastbound on the same road, proceeding straight. It was daylight, with rainy weather conditions, the road was wet. As V1 crossed the eastbound travel lane in an attempt to turn left, the right front area was impacted by the frontal area of V2 (Event 1). The impact resulted in moderate damage to V1. V1 rotated sharply counterclockwise as the right rear area struck (i.e. "side slapped") the left passenger area of V2 (Event 2). This secondary impact resulted in additional moderate damage to V1. Both vehicles were redirected towards the southeast and departed the south pavement edge into a private yard. V2 came to rest along the south shoulder facing southwest. The frontal area of V1 subsequently impacted a roadside fence resulting in minor damage (Event 3). V1 came to rest in close proximity to the final point of impact facing southeast. The 15-year-old male driver of the 2005 Buick Rendezvous was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat track adjusted to a mid-to-rear position. It should be noted that the vehicle's Event Data Recorder (EDR) reported the driver's belt switch circuit status as "unbuckled", and seat track at a "forward" position. The lack of seat belt use was confirmed by the absence of loading marks on the available driver three-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. The belt was restricted in the stowed position by (retractor) pretensioner deployment. At impact 1, the driver initiated a lateral and forward trajectory in response to the 2 o'clock impact force and loaded the knee bolster, center console, and deployed frontal airbag. A pronounced scuff mark was identified on the left knee bolster and attributed to the driver's right knee. The center console was deformed, scuffed, and displaced to the right in multiple locations. This contact pattern was attributed to the driver's right lower extremity. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the scuff marks documented across the right half of the membrane face. Although no deformation of the steering wheel rim was found, compression of the steering column was noted. At impact 2, the driver continued the kinematic response into the right windshield and A-pillar. This kinematic trajectory was evidenced by the spiderweb fracture pattern identified on the right lower windshield and heavy scratch marks noted on the adjacent A-pillar. A localized smudge mark (and light fabric transfer) was also documented on the right front door window glazing. The driver (and sole occupant) of V1 was transported to a local hospital. The driver of V1 was subsequently transferred to a nearby trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage