This crash occurred on a four lane, two way street at night with street lights and clear, dry conditions. Vehicle two (V2), a 1991 Cadillac Deville sedan was southbound in lane 2 behind vehicle three (V3), a 1993 Hyundai Elantra sub-compact sedan. Both V2 and V3 were negotiating a curve to the right in the roadway just as V2 attempted to change lanes into lane one when the front left corner of V2 impacted the back right corner of V3. This impact was a corner side-swipe type and V2 continued into lane one but then began to rotate counterclockwise crossing over lane two ahead of V3, and into the opposite lanes of travel. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Chevrolet Cavalier four-door sedan was northbound in lane two when the front of V1 impacted the right side of V2. This impact forced V1 rearward and rotated it clockwise as the left side of V1 side-slapped into the right side of V2. V1 continued further south from the impact and rotated clockwise about 270 degrees before it came to final rest on the east side of the street. V2 rolled over on to its roof and then the back of V2 lightly impacted into a light pole on the east side of the road as it came to final rest partially in northbound lane one.. V3 locked up the brakes post the first event and veered into the opposite lanes after the impact of V1 and V2. V3 then came to rest on top of the main impact event evidence of V1 and V2 in the northbound lane 2. All vehicles were towed due to damage. Cargo in V1's trunk was forced into the passenger compartment causing the second seatback to be deformed forward into the rear seat occupants and continued into the passenger compartment. All four occupants in V1 are case subjects. The driver, a 51 year old female, was wearing the manual lap/shoulder belt and had a frontal airbag deployment and transported to the trauma center. The front right passenger, a 48 year old male, was wearing the manual lap/shoulder belt and had a frontal airbag deployment and transported to the trauma center. In the second seat left was a 30 year old female who was wearing the manual lap/shoulder belt and was fatally injured. In the second seat right was a 12 year old female, who was wearing the lap/shoulder belt and may have placed the shoulder harness behind her back and transported to the trauma center.