The principal impact involves a right-side plane impact between the case vehicle and the front-end plane of another vehicle. The restrained 17-year-old driver and restrained 18-year-old right-front passenger are case occupants. Both frontal-impact air bags deployed. The case vehicle a 2-door 2000 Honda Civic was northbound in the left-turn lane of a wet, asphalt, seven-lane divided traffic-way approaching a controlled, obliquely-angled, four-leg intersection. Vehicle two (V2) a 1986 Ford E-250 van was in the outside southbound lane of the same roadway, approaching the same intersection. It was dark, but lighted and raining. As the case vehicle was making a left turn, it crossed the path of V2. The front of V2 struck the right-side of the case vehicle. As a result of the impact, the case vehicle rotated counterclockwise approximately 120 degrees and V2 rotated clockwise, which resulted in the right side of the case vehicle side-slapping the left side of V2. V2 rotated approximately 100 degrees and came to a rest in the center southbound lane, on the south side of the intersection facing west. The case vehicle crossed the narrow raised grass median and entered the northbound lanes. It traversed the three northbound traffic lanes approximately 125 meters before it departed the road, crossed the east sidewalk, rode over the raised curb of a private drive, and struck a square brick business sign. It came to rest against the sign facing south facing south-southeast. The 17-year-old male driver was restrained by a three-point belt and the steering-wheel air bag deployed. He sustained critical injuries and was taken to a level-one trauma center at a children's hospital. The 18-year-old male right-front passenger restrained by a three-point belt and the mid-instrument panel air bag deployed. He was pronounced dead at scene by a first responder, but subsequently began breathing and a pulse was obtained. He was taken to a level-one trauma center. He arrived non-breathing and without a pulse. After attempted resuscitation he was pronounced dead. The 17-year-old male rear-center seat was not restrained, he sustained police reported incapacitating injuries and was taken to a level-one trauma center.