Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 33-year-old male driver of a 2005 Ford F-150 Super Crew cab pick-up truck, which was involved in a front, narrow corner impact, with the frontal plane of a 2010 Toyota 4Runner compact utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This three-vehicle collision occurred during the post-midnight hours (dark, street lights present) of a winter weekday, on a five-lane bituminous roadway, at the area of an interchange. The roadway is the southbound travel direction of a north/south trafficway. The southbound roadway is straight, but does have a slight downhill grade, with a speed limit of 55 mph (89 km/h). At the time of the crash, it was raining and the roadway surface was wet. Vehicle 1, the 2005 Ford F-150 pick-up truck, was being operated by the 33-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the far right southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 2010 Toyota 4Runner compact utility vehicle, was able to gain access to the southbound roadway and was traveling northbound, in the far right southbound travel lane. The driver appears to have intended to continue traveling northbound. Vehicle 3, a 2007 Volvo CLN tractor, was pulling one cargo trailer (tractor-trailer combination) in the second southbound travel lane from the left. The driver of Vehicle 3 intended to continue traveling southbound. Crash: Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 approached each other from opposite directions, but were unable to avoid a collision, and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1) in a somewhat corner to corner impact. Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise and spun off the road and came to rest at the western paved shoulder area of the roadway, facing a northeasterly direction. Vehicle 2 rotated counterclockwise out of the impact and spun across the southbound travel lanes and struck the right side of Vehicle 3 with its right side plane (event 2). Vehicle 2 and Vehicle 3 subsequently struck again, right side plane to right side plane (event 3). Vehicle 2 then traveled across the southbound lanes again and came to rest straddling the western paved shoulder and the far right southbound travel lane, facing a southeasterly direction. Vehicle 3 continued on, but came to rest at an unknown location. As a result of the frontal impact (event 1), Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was also transported to the regional trauma center, by land unit, and hospitalized with non-incapacitating injuries. The driver and passenger of Vehicle 3 were not injured. All three vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.