Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 87-year-old female driver of a 2006 Buick LaCrosse 4-door sedan, which was involved in a frontal impact, with the back plane of a 2012 Ford F-150 pick-up truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This three-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight), of a winter weekday, on a two-lane, bituminous, north/south roadway. Leading into the crash area, from the north, the roadway is divided, with a negatively graded right turning curve (termination of a dedicated merge lane). However, at the area of the crash, the roadway becomes undivided and is relatively straight. The speed limit is 40 mph (64 km/h) and at the time of the crash, it was raining and the roadway surfaces were wet, with areas of snow at the shoulders/roadside. Vehicle 1, the 2006 Buick LaCrosse 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 87-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags and roof rail side curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 2012 Ford F-150 large pick-up truck (crew cab) was stopped at the crash area in the southbound travel lane, directly behind Vehicle 3. The driver of Vehicle 2 was waiting for a non-contacted vehicle to complete a left turn into a private driveway. The driver of Vehicle 2 then intended to continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 3, a 2005 Honda Accord 2-door coupe, was also stopped at the crash area in the southbound travel lane, directly ahead of Vehicle 2. The driver of Vehicle 3 was also waiting for the non-contacted vehicle to complete its left turn in order to continue traveling south. Crash: As Vehicle 1 approached from the north, Vehicles 2 and 3 started to accelerate in the southbound travel lane after the non-contacted vehicle completed its left turn. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the rear plane of Vehicle 2 (event 1) subsequently causing Vehicle 2's frontal plane to contact the rear plane of Vehicle 3 (event 2). All three vehicles came to rest in the southbound travel lane, just south of their initial impact areas, facing a southerly direction. As a result of its impact with Vehicle2, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was able to extricate herself from the vehicle and was subsequently transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver and two passengers of Vehicle 2 were also transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but the extent of their injuries and treatments, if any, are unknown. The driver of Vehicle 3 and the right front passenger of Vehicle 2 were reported to be uninjured. Vehicle 1 was towed due to damage sustained in the crash, while Vehicles 2 and 3 were driven from the scene (damaged, but still functional).