Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 20-year-old, right front female passenger of a 2012 BMW 528i 4-door sedan, which was involved in a near side impact (right side), by the frontal plane of a 2008 Jeep Wrangler compact utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the evening hours (dark, street lights present), of a late fall weekday, on a north/south bituminous roadway. This roadway normally consists of two southbound travel lanes and two northbound travel lanes, but at the area of the crash a painted median separates the travel directions (localized) in order to accommodate and additional left turn lane for a nearby intersection. The roadway has an uphill grade and also curves to the right for the northbound travel direction. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The speed limit for the roadway is 45 mph (72 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2012 BMW 528i 4-door sedan, was being operated by a 72-year-old male driver in the left northbound travel lane. Occupying the right front seating position was the 20-year-old female passenger (case occupant). Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts. Vehicle 1 is also noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, knee bolster air bags (front positions), seat back mounted torso side bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 was traveling north, approaching the crash area (painted divider/left turn lane) from the south. Vehicle 2, a 2008 Jeep Wrangler compact utility vehicle, was traveling southbound in the left southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 had just crossed through an intersection and intended to continue traveling south. Crash: For unknown reasons, the driver of Vehicle 1 initiated a left U-turn at the area of the painted divider/beginning of the dedicated left turn lane, in order to travel south. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 1 in the left southbound travel lane (event 1). Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise out of the impact as Vehicle 2 was redirected in a southwesterly direction. At this time, the right side plane of Vehicle 2 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 1 in a sideswipe fashion (event 2), before both vehicles came to rest. Vehicle 1 came to rest in the southbound travel lanes facing a northerly direction, while Vehicle 2 came to rest in the southbound travel lanes, facing a southwesterly direction. As a result of the right side impact, Vehicle 1's passenger's side torso air bag and side rail curtain deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital, with minor injuries, treated and released, while the right front passenger of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was extricated from the vehicle by responding fire/rescue personnel and transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with moderate to severe injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was also transported to a local hospital with non-incapacitating injuries, but the extent of his injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown.