Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 46-year old female driver of a 2013 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, which was involved in a head-on, frontal impact, with the frontal plane of a 2000 Lincoln Town Car 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the evening hours (dark), of a winter weekday, on a straight two-lane bituminous roadway. This roadway is the westbound travel direction of an east/west trafficway (grass median with no positive barriers). The speed limit is 55 mph (89 km/h) and the roadway has a slight hill crest at the area of the crash. At the time of the crash, it was snowing and sleeting and the roadway surface was wet. Vehicle 1, the 2013 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 46-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the right westbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, front knee bolster air bags, seat back mounted side bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling west. Vehicle 2, a 2000 Lincoln Town Car 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound in the right westbound travel lane. Vehicle 2 likely accessed the westbound roadway at an intersection some distance west of the crash area. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling eastbound. Crash: Both vehicles approached the crash area (hill crest) from their respective travel directions. The driver of Vehicle 1, seeing the approach of Vehicle 2, attempted to steer left and brake, but was unsuccessful in avoiding a crash. The frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 somewhat head-on. Both vehicles came to rest within the road at or near the area of the impact and in close proximity to each other (specific rest positions are unknown). As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag and knee bolster air bag deployed, as did both side rail curtains. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was transported to a local hospital, but subsequently expired due to injuries sustained in the crash. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.