Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 41-year-old female driver of a 2007 Acura MDX utility vehicle, which was primarily involved an offset frontal impact with the frontal plane of a 2002 Chevrolet Venture minivan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the mid-day hour (daylight), of a winter weekend, at the intersection of a five-lane, bituminous north/south roadway and a two-lane east/west roadway. The north/south roadway consists of two southbound lanes, two northbound lanes and mutual center turn lane. The north/south roadway is straight with a positive uphill grade for the southbound travel direction. The east/west roadway intersects the north/south roadway on the west side forming a "T-type" intersection. The north/south roadway has a speed limit of 40 mph (64 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. The overall environment consists of numerous commercial establishments on either side of the roadways. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Acura MDX utility vehicle, was being operated by the 41-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the left southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, seat back mounted side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 was approaching the intersection from the north and intended to continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 2002 Chevrolet Venture minivan, was traveling northbound in the mutual center turn lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling westbound. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time with Vehicle 2 initiating its left turn. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the front right plane of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Vehicle 2 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest south of the impact area, in the southbound travel lanes, facing a southerly direction. Vehicle 1, after the initial impact with Vehicle 2, was redirected in a southwesterly direction towards the western roadway edge. Vehicle 1's right front wheel struck the curb at the western roadway edge (event 2) before it traveled a short distance along a sidewalk area. At this time, Vehicle 1 struck a small roadway sign post with its frontal plane (event 3). Vehicle 1 regained the roadway and traveled south coming to rest, south of the impact area, straddling the left southbound lane and the mutual center turn lane, facing a southerly direction. As a result of the initial frontal impact with Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver and passenger of Vehicle 2 were also transported to the regional trauma center, by land unit, but the extent of their injuries and treatments, if any, are unknown. Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.