Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 31-year-old female driver of a 2013 Hyundai Elantra 4-door hatchback, which was involved in a moderate frontal (front right) impact with the back plane of a 2009 Range Rover Sport utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the late afternoon hours (dusk), of a winter weekday, within the area of an interchange. The crash area consists of seven bituminous travel lanes, which split at the interchange into three northbound travel lanes and four westbound travel lanes. The three right northbound travel lanes curve to the right with a downhill grade, while the four westbound travel lanes curve to the left with a downhill grade. Paved shoulder areas border the north edge of the seven-lane roadway and the western and eastern edges of the three northbound lanes. The overall speed limit for the roadway is 55 mph (89 km/h). At the time of the crash, it was raining and the roadway surfaces were wet. Vehicle 1, the 2013 Hyundai Elantra 4-door hatchback, was being operated by the 31-year old female driver (case occupant) in the left northbound travel lane (3rd lane from the right), approaching the roadway split. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, a driver's knee bolster air bag, seat back mounted side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling northbound, at the split, in the left northbound travel lane. Vehicle 2, a 2009 Range Rover Sport utility vehicle, was stopped at the north paved shoulder area (right side of the roadway) just prior to the roadway split. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to enter the roadway at the split area and gain access to the westbound travel lanes. Crash: Vehicle 2 entered the roadway while changing lanes to the left. At this time, Vehicle 1's driver attempted to brake, but was unsuccessful. As a result, Vehicle 1's frontal plane (front right corner area) struck the back plane (back left corner area) of Vehicle 2 in the left northbound travel lane (3rd lane from the right). Both vehicles came to rest at unknown locations, at the left northbound travel lane/shoulder area, facing unknown directions. As a result of the frontal impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal and knee bolster air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was later transferred, post-midnight, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured and was able to drive Vehicle 2 away from the crash area. However, Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash scene due to damage sustained in the crash.