Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 34-year-old male driver of a 2011 BMW 335d 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a near side impact (left side) by the frontal plane of a 2006 Chevrolet Impala 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the evening hours (dark, street lights present), of a late fall weekday, at the intersection of a residential roadway and a multi-lane, north/south roadway. The residential roadway intersects the north/south roadway only on the west side, as a spur. This western leg of the intersection consists of one westbound lane and one eastbound lane. The northern leg of the intersection consists of three southbound lanes (two through lanes and a dedicated right turn lane) separated from the two northbound through lanes by a dedicated mutual center-left turn lane. The north/south roadway is relatively level and straight. The southern leg of the intersection consists of three northbound travel lanes (two through lanes and a dedicated left turn lane) and two southbound through lanes. The intersection itself is controlled by standard, overhead, tri-colored electric signals. At the time of the crash, the traffic signals controlling traffic into and through the intersection were on a flashing mode. The speed limit for the north/south roadway is 50 mph (80 km/h) and at the time of the crash, it was raining and the roadway surfaces were wet. Vehicle 1, the 2011 BMW 335d 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 34-year old male driver (case occupant) in the eastbound travel lane of the western leg/spur of the intersection. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, seat back mounted hip/torso side bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling northbound. Vehicle 2, a 2006 Chevrolet Impala 4-door sedan, was traveling southbound in the left southbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the north. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling southbound. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1). Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise out of the impact as it traveled towards the southeastern edge of the intersection. Vehicle 1's right rear wheel (event 2) struck the curb as it partially departed the roadway. Vehicle 1 came to rest straddling the roadway edge, at the southeastern area of the intersection, facing a northwesterly direction. Vehicle 2 also rotated counterclockwise out of the impact and came to rest at the southern leg of the intersection, straddling the north/south painted line divider, facing a northerly direction. As a result of the left side impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed, as did the driver's seat back mounted, side hip/torso air bag and the left roof side rail curtain. Vehicle 1's right roof side rail curtain also deployed, but unknown as to which event this can be attributed to (event 1 or event 2). Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was extricated from the vehicle by responding fire/rescue personnel and transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to critical injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was also transported to the regional trauma center, by land unit, but was treated and released with minor injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.