Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 17-year-old female driver of a 2006 Honda Civic 2-door coupe, which was involved in a narrow corner, frontal impact with the frontal plane of a 1997 Toyota Land Cruiser large utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the late morning hours, of a winter weekend day (daylight), on a curved, two-lane, bituminous roadway. This level roadway runs generally east and west and has a right turning curve for the eastbound travel direction. The roadway has a speed limit of 40 mph (64 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear, but the roadway surface was icy. Vehicle 1, the 2006 Honda Civic 2-door coupe, was being operated by the 17-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the eastbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, side impact hip/torso air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling eastbound. Vehicle 2, a 1997 Toyota Land Cruiser large utility vehicle, was traveling westbound. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to negotiate the curve and continue traveling westbound. Crash: Vehicle 2 reportedly experienced a loss of control on the icy roadway surface and subsequently entered the eastbound travel lane, traveling westbound. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 (front left corner) struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 (front left corner). Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise out of the impact and came to rest off the south edge of the roadway, facing a northerly direction. Vehicle 2 came to rest in the roadway, just west of the impact area, facing a northwesterly direction. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag, hip/torso side air bag and roof side rail curtain deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured. Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed due to damage sustained in the crash.