This 72-year-old female case occupant was the belted driver of a 2013 Subaru Outback 4-door wagon, which was primarily involved in a moderate, non-horizontal frontal undercarriage impact with a ditch/embankment (with subsequent 4-quarter turn rollover). The case occupant was sitting upright in a bucket seat, which was adjusted to the mid seat track position. At the time of the crash, the case occupant was 163 cm (64 inches) in height and weighed 77 kg (170 pounds). During the first impact with ditch/embankment, the case occupant was projected mostly downward and somewhat forward in reference to the vehicle. The case occupant loaded her seat belt restraint with her upper torso evident by the loading marks at the D-ring and latch plate, as her head flexed forward and down. Her chin possibly contacted the steering wheel rim as her buttocks and thighs loaded and deformed the seat pan. However, during the rollover phase of the crash, the case occupant was projected upward possibly making contact with the roof panel with her head. The case occupant came to rest with her respective seating area, but with an unknown post-crash posture, where she was found by responding emergency medical services personnel. The case occupant's injuries include a lumbar body and transverse process spine fractures of the L1 and L3, a left transverse process fracture of the L2 and an inferior gluteal artery injury, all due to certain pelvis/buttock contact with the seat pan. A C2 fracture ("hangman" type) was probable result of contact with the roof panel during the rollover or possibly contact with the steering wheel rim during the ditch/embankment impact, while a right forehead contusion was the possible result of either the roof or the steering wheel. A left knee abrasion was attributed to certain contact with the knee bolster panel during either phase of the crash, while a chin abrasion was attribute to possible contact with the steering wheel rim during the ditch/embankment impact. A sternum fracture was the certain result of contact with the seat belt webbing, while a left 7th rib fracture was attributed to the seat belt (probable). Finally a posterior scalp laceration was due to contact with an unknown source. The maximum Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS) for this case occupant was MAIS 2.