Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 17-year-old female driver of a 2012 Mini Cooper 2-door hatchback, which was involved in a moderate head-on collision with a 2013 Honda Pilot large utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight) of a winter weekday, on an east/west, bituminous roadway. This roadway generally consists of two travel lanes, but at the area of the crash, the roadway transitions into four travel lanes to accommodate a local intersection (one through lane for each travel direction, with dedicated right turn lanes). The intersection itself did not play a part in the crash. The westbound travel direction, as one approaches the intersection from the east, has a negative downhill grade and a left turning curve. The roadway's western approach to and through the intersection is relatively straight with the beginning of slight uphill grade. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The roadway speed limit is 50 mph (80 km/h) and the overall environment is rural. Vehicle 1, the 2012 Mini Cooper 2-door hatchback, was being operated by the 17-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the westbound travel lane, approaching the transition area from the east. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, seat back mounted side impact air bags (front and rear outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the graded left turning curve and continue traveling westbound. Vehicle 2, a 2013 Honda Pilot large utility vehicle, was traveling eastbound. The driver of Vehicle 2 had just passed through the intersection and was approaching the termination of the intersection transition area. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to negotiate the right turning curve and continue traveling east. Crash: As Vehicle 2 approached from the west, it drifted into the westbound travel lane. Based upon vehicle damage and rest positions, there appears to have been an attempt at an evasive maneuver by one or both of the vehicles, but without success. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 in a head-on fashion. Vehicle 1 was pushed backwards and came to rest in the westbound travel lane, facing a westerly direction (skewed somewhat to the northwest). Vehicle 2 disengaged from Vehicle 1 in a southeasterly direction and came to rest, east of the impact area, slightly off the south side of the roadway, near the termination of the right eastbound merge lane and the beginning of the paved shoulder area, facing an easterly direction. As a result of the frontal impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was extricated from the vehicle (driver's door removed with dash-roll) and transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 2 was transported to a local hospital, by land unit, with incapacitating injuries, but the extent of those injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.