Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 21-year-old male driver of a 2009 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a near side impact (left side) with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (dawn), of a winter weekday, on a two-lane bituminous roadway. This roadway runs generally north and south and has a speed limit of 30 mph (48 km/h). At the area of the crash, the roadway consists of a sharp right turning curve which leads into a long, left turning curve, with a downhill/negative grade. At the time of the crash, it was snowing / raining and the roadway surface was wet with areas of ice and slush. The overall environment is rural, with groves of trees bordering either side of the roadway. Vehicle 1, the 2009 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 21-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was not restrained, but the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, seat back mounted, side air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the curved sections of the roadway and continue traveling northbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 experienced a loss of control and subsequently departed the east edge of the roadway, left side leading, at the area of the long, left turning curve. At this time, Vehicle 1's left plane (left front area) struck shrubs/brush (yielding / event 1) before striking a larger tree with its left side plane at the driver's door area (event 2). Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise somewhat about the tree and contacted some fallen tree trunks with its front under carriage/frame area (event 3) before coming to rest, facing a northeasterly direction. As a result of the large tree impact (event 2), Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag, hip/torso side bag and roof side rail curtain deployed. Post-Crash: Vehicle 1's roof structure, right side doors, including the B-pillar, and the right front seat backrest were removed by fire/rescue personnel. The driver of Vehicle 1 was extricated and transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.