Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted, 73-year old right front female passenger, of a 2008 Ford F-150 large pick-up truck, which was involved in a moderate frontal impact with the right side plane of a 2012 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the late evening hours (dark, street lights present) of a spring weekend, at the intersection of a north/south trafficway and the access ramp to an east/west trafficway (interchange area). The bituminous southbound roadway consists of two travel lanes and is straight, with a slight downhill grade leading into the intersection (northern leg). The northbound roadway, at the south leg of the intersection, consists of two northbound travel lanes and a dedicated left turn lane (ramp access). The intersection is controlled by standard electric, overhead tri-colored traffic signals. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The north/south roadway has a speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2008 Ford F-150 large pick-up truck, was being operated by a 73-year-old male driver in the right southbound travel lane. Occupying the right front seating position was the 73-year-old female passenger (case occupant). Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 2012 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan, was traveling northbound in the dedicated left turn lane, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling westbound. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the right front plane of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Vehicle 2 rotated counterclockwise as Vehicle 1 was redirected in a southwesterly direction. At this time, the right rear corner area of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 as both vehicles traveled to rest (event 2). Vehicle 1 departed the southwest corner of the intersection and struck a guardrail with its front right plane (event 3) before coming to rest, facing a southwesterly direction. Vehicle 2 traveled south and came to rest straddling the left southbound lane, just south of the intersection, facing a southeasterly direction. As a result of the first impact/event, Vehicle 1's frontal impact air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was reported to be uninjured, while the right front passenger (case occupant) of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, treated and released with minor injuries. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.