Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 58-year-old, male driver of a 2013 Toyota Corolla S 4-door sedan, which was involved in a severe frontal impact with the rear plane of a 2008 Ford F-250 super duty large pick-up truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the evening hours (dark, street lights present) of a late winter weekday, on a two-lane, bituminous roadway, just north of an interchange/transition area. This roadway is the southbound travel direction of a north/south trafficway and is relatively straight and level. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear, but the roadway surface was wet. The southbound roadway has a speed limit of 55 mph (89 km/h) and the overall environment is rural. Vehicle 1, the 2013 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 58-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the right, southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, seat back mounted side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 2008 Ford F-250 super duty large pick-up truck, was in the right southbound travel lane, directly ahead of Vehicle 1. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling southbound. Crash: Vehicle 2 decelerated and came to a stop for traffic congestion directly ahead, but Vehicle 1 was unable to stop and subsequently the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck and under rode the rear plane of Vehicle 2 in a rear-end type collision (event 1). In addition to braking and based upon the impact damage to Vehicle 1, it suspected, but unconfirmed that the driver of the Vehicle 1 may have initially attempted to steer left. Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise and came to rest straddling the southbound travel lanes, facing a southwesterly direction. Vehicle 2 was pushed forward, coming to rest in the right southbound travel lane, facing a southerly direction. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed as did both roof side rail curtains. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 2 and two passengers were reported to be uninjured. The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital (overnight admission), but was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash, but Vehicle 2 was driven from the scene by the driver.