Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 72-year-old female driver, of a 2011 Hyundai Tucson compact utility vehicle, who was involved in a moderate, narrow corner frontal impact with the frontal plane of a 2006 Mazda 6 4-door sedan (offset/small overlap). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) of a spring weekend, at the intersection of an east/west roadway and a north/south roadway. At the intersection, the east/west roadway consists of five travel lanes with both eastern and western legs having one dedicated through lane (both directions), dedicated left and right turn lanes (both directions) and a dedicated merge/access lane (both directions) for the intersecting roadway. The north/south legs of the intersection did not play a part in the crash. Traffic traveling into and through the intersection is controlled by overhead, standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals (working properly at the time). For the westbound travel direction, as one approaches the intersection from the east, the roadway has a positive uphill grade with a slight left turning curve which straightens as one enters the confines of the intersection. The eastbound roadway, as one approaches the intersection from the west, is straight, but with a negative downhill grade. Both travel directions prior to and through the intersection have a posted speed limit of 55 mph (89 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. The overall environment is rural. Vehicle 1, the 2011 Hyundai Tucson compact utility vehicle, was being operated by the 72-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the westbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the east. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her 3-point lap/shoulder belt and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, seat back mounted side impact air bags (outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling westbound. Vehicle 2, a 2006 Mazda 6 4-door sedan, was stopped in the left eastbound travel lane (left turn lane), at the western leg of the intersection. The driver of Vehicle 2 was waiting for a change in traffic signals in order to turn left and continue traveling northbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, as Vehicle 1 traveled through the intersection it drifted left. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 in an offset fashion (small overlap), at the western leg of the intersection (event 1). Vehicle 2 is believed to have been pushed backward somewhat as Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise and unknown degree. Both vehicles came to rest at the western leg of the intersection with Vehicle 2 facing a northeasterly direction and Vehicle 1 facing a southwesterly direction. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 and its two passengers were transported, by land unit, to a local hospital with minor injuries. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.