Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted 65-year-old female driver of a 2013 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a severe, off-set, narrow corner frontal impact (with subsequent one-quarter turn roll), with the frontal plane of a 2007 Ford Edge 4-door wagon. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight) of a spring weekday, at the intersection of a three-lane roadway and an entrance way to a school. The bituminous roadway runs generally east and west, with the school entrance intersecting it on the north side. The western leg of the intersection is composed of three lanes, with the eastbound travel direction having a dedicated left turn lane and one through lane. The eastern leg of the intersection also has three travel lanes with the westbound travel direction having a dedicated right turn lane and one westbound through lane. Leading into the intersection, the westbound travel direction has left turning curve with a negative downhill grade, while the roadway at the western leg is relatively straight, with a positive uphill grade. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear, but the roadway surface was reported to be wet. The east/west roadway as a speed limit of 40 mph (64 km/h) and the overall environment is suburban. Vehicle 1, the 2013 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 65-year-old female driver (case occupant) at the western leg of the intersection, in the dedicated left turn lane (stopped, waiting to turn left). The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, seat back mounted side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to turn left and enter the entrance way to the school. Vehicle 2, a 2007 Ford Edge 4-door wagon, was in the westbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the east. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling westbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 2 drifted left as it passed through the intersection and subsequently struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 with its frontal plane, in an offset manner (small overlap). Vehicle 2 rotated counterclockwise approximately 270 degrees and came to rest in the eastbound travel lanes, facing a northerly direction. Vehicle 1 was pushed rearward while rotating counterclockwise and subsequently rolled over one-quarter turn (left rear wheel trip at curb as left front rim scraped roadway surface) before departing the south edge of the roadway. Vehicle 1 came to rest at the south roadside edge, resting on its left side plane, facing a southerly direction. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed as did the driver's side hip/torso air bag and roof side rail curtain. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was extricated and transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was also transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center with incapacitating injuries, but the extent of their injuries and/or treatment are unknown. Vehicle 1 and 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.