Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted 79-year-old male driver of a 2009 Honda Fit 4-door hatch-back, which was involved in a moderate, frontal impact with the towed unit (no specifics), of a parked 2012 Ford F-750 medium truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the post afternoon hour (daylight) of a spring weekday, on a straight, two-lane residential roadway. This roadway runs generally north and south and has a positive uphill grade for the southbound travel direction. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The roadway has a speed limit of 25 mph (40 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2009 Honda Fit 4-door hatch-back, was being operated by the 79-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, seat back mounted side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 2012 Ford F-750 medium straight truck with a towed unit (no-specifics), was parked in the southbound travel lane (surrounded by safety cones). Vehicle 2 was performing tree removal/trimming services at an adjacent property near the roadside. Crash: For unknown reasons, as Vehicle 1 traveled south it struck the rear of the towed unit of Vehicle 2 and came to rest at or near the impact area, facing a southerly direction. Vehicle 2 came to rest in its original parked position, but the position and damage extent of the towed unit is unknown. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash, but Vehicle 2 remained on scene and was eventually driven from the scene by its driver.