Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted 64-year-old female driver of a 2013 Subaru Outback 4-door wagon, who was involved in a near side collision (left side plane), with the frontal plane of a 2001 Dodge Ram 2500 pick-up truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) at the intersection of two roadways. The east/west roadway consists of two travel lanes while the north/south roadway consists of three travel lanes (one southbound lane and two northbound lanes). The eastern and western legs of the intersection are controlled by posted stop signs while there are no traffic controls for the north/south roadway. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Both roadways have a speed limit of 40 mph (64 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2013 Subaru Outback 4-door wagon, was being operated by the 64-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the eastbound travel lane, at the western leg of the intersection. Vehicle 1 was stopped at the intersection and the driver intended to turn left to continue traveling northbound. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the case vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, front seatback mounted side impact air bags (hip/torso side bags) and roof side rail curtains. Vehicle 2, a 2001 Dodge Ram 2500 large pick-up truck, was traveling in the southbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the north. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling south. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the driver of Vehicle 2, seeing the approach of Vehicle 1, braked and steered left, but was unsuccessful in avoiding a collision. The frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1. Both vehicles were redirected toward the southeast corner of the intersection and eventually came to rest. Vehicle 1 came to rest at the southeast corner of the intersection, facing an easterly direction, while Vehicle 2 came to rest at the eastern leg of the intersection, near the southeast corner. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's left side rail curtain deployed as did the driver's seat back mounted side hip/torso air bag. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle by responding emergency medical services personnel and transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured and was not transported. Both vehicles were towed due to damage sustained in the crash.