Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted 62-year-old male driver of a 2011 Ford Edge large 4-door wagon, which was primarily involved in an offset frontal impact with the right side plane of a 2002 GMC Sierra 1500 large pick-up truck (extended cab). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) of summer weekday, at the intersection of a north/south trafficway and a two-lane, east/west roadway. The southbound roadway of the north/south trafficway is straight and composed of four travel lanes (two-through lanes, a left turn lane and right turn lane). The east/west roadway is also straight and composed of two travel lanes, one for each travel direction. The southbound roadway intersects the east/west roadway at a slightly obtuse angle (based upon vehicle travel directions). Both roadways are relatively level and the intersection has electric, flashing yellow signals for the southbound travel direction, while the east/west roadway has electric, flashing red signals and stop signs. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. The southbound roadway has a speed limit of 55 mph (89 km/h), while the east/west roadway has speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2011 Ford Edge large 4-door station wagon, was being operated by the 62-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the left southbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the north. Occupying the right front seating position was a female passenger of unknown age. Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts (with retractor type belt pretensioners). Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling south. Vehicle 2, a 2002 GMC Sierra 1500 large pick-up truck (extended cab), was in the west bound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the east (eastern leg). The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling west. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the driver of Vehicle 1 appears to have steered right, based upon information from the event data record/crash data record (EDR/CDR). However, this steering maneuver was unsuccessful and the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the right front plane of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Vehicle 1 was redirected towards the southwest corner of the intersection and departed the roadway. Vehicle 1 came to rest at the west roadside, facing a southerly direction, after striking some vines/branches with its frontal plane (event 2). As a result of the impact, Vehicle 2 spun counterclockwise and came to rest in the intersection, facing an easterly direction. As a result of the main frontal impact (event 1), Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed and the front seat belt pretensioners actuated. The left roof side rail curtain air bag also deployed as a result of the crash/impact. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle by responding emergency medical services personnel after a twenty-minute plus extrication. Both the driver and passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center. The driver (case occupant) was hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries, while the right front passenger was treated for moderate injuries and released. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured and was not transported. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.