Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 21-year-old male driver of a 2008 Scion tC 2-door hatchback, which was primarily involved in a frontal impact with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the post-midnight hours (dark, street lights present) of a spring weekend day, on a two-lane, bituminous roadway. This roadway runs generally north and south and has a left turning curve for the northbound travel direction at the area of the crash. The roadway is graded with a negative downhill grade just prior to the curve (roadway is also straight for some distance prior to the curve as well) and then transitions to an uphill grade at the area of the curve. The posted speed limit of 35 mph (56 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The overall environment is residential. Vehicle 1, the 2008 Scion tC 2-door hatchback, was being operated by the 21-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his 3-point lap/shoulder belt and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, a driver's knee bolster air bag, seat back mounted side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the graded and curved area and continue traveling northbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, as Vehicle 1 negotiated the curved section of roadway, it drifted left, across the southbound travel lane and off the west roadway edge. At this time Vehicle 1's left front wheel/undercarriage/sill area bottomed out at a shallow ditch fill with organic debris. Vehicle 1 continued on, sideswiping shrubs/tree branches with its left side plane before impacting a large tree with its frontal plane. Vehicle 1 is believed to have rotated somewhat counterclockwise before coming to rest, at the tree, facing a westerly direction. As a result of the crash (possibly the ditch impact), Vehicle 1's driver's frontal and knee bolster air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 extricated himself from the vehicle and was subsequently transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.