Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a unbelted 59-year-old male driver of a 2012 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 large pick-up truck, which was involved in a head-on collision with a 2009 Ford F-150 large pick-up truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the evening hours (dusk) of a summer weekend, on a two-lane rural roadway. This level roadway runs generally north and south and has a right turning curve for the southbound travel direction. At the time of the crash, the weather was cloudy and the roadway surface was dry. The roadway has a speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2012 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 large pick-up truck, was being operated by the 59-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the southbound travel lane. The case occupant was not belted, but the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted side air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the right turning curve and continue traveling south. Vehicle 2, a 2009 Ford F-150 large pick-up truck, was traveling northbound, approaching the curved section of roadway from the south. The female driver, and a right front passenger, of Vehicle 2 intended to negotiate the left turning curve and continue traveling north. Crash: For unknown reasons (suspected driver distraction), Vehicle 1 crossed into the northbound travel lane at the termination area of the right turning curve. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 head-on. Both vehicles came to rest at or near the impact area, facing their original travel directions. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed, as did the roof side rail curtains. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was transported by land unit to a local hospital, but was transferred (post-midnight) to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with moderate to serious injuries. The driver and right front passenger of Vehicle 2 were also transported, by land unit, to a local hospital with non-incapacitating injuries. The extent of their injuries and treatments, if any, are unknown. Both vehicles involved were towed due to damage sustained in the crash.