Case Focus: The focus of this case is on an unbelted 25-year-old female driver of a 2009 Chevrolet Malibu 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a frontal collision with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight) on a two-lane, north/south roadway. This bituminous roadway is mostly level, but has a left turning curve for the southbound travel direction. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The speed limit of this north/south roadway is a 35 mph (56 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2009 Chevrolet Malibu 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 25-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the southbound travel lane. Occupying the left rear and right rear seating positions were a 5-year-old male and a 4-year-old female, respectively. All three occupants of Vehicle 1 were not belted, but Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, front seatback mounted side impact air bags and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the left turning curve in the roadway and continue traveling southbound. Crash: Due to a prior medical condition, the driver of Vehicle 1 was unable to negotiate the left turning curve of the north/south roadway and continued in a straight path while departing the right side of the roadway. Vehicle 1 subsequently struck a tree, and its branches, with its frontal plane (front right corner area), with noted swiping down the right side plane (event 1). Vehicle 1 continued on a short distance and struck another tree with its frontal plane (event 2). Vehicle 1 came to rest at the area of impact, facing a southerly direction. As a result of the first impact, the right side rail curtain air bag deployed. As a result of the second impact, the driver's frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle by responding emergency medical services personnel and transported to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The two child passengers were reported to have sustained minor injuries and were transported to a local hospital where they were treated and released. Vehicle 1 was towed due to damage sustained in the crash.