Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 19-year-old male driver of a 2011 Ford F-350 Super Duty large pick-up truck, which was primarily involved in a moderate, narrow corner frontal impact with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the evening hours (dark, no street lights) of a spring weekday, on a two-lane, east/west, bituminous roadway. At the area of the crash, this roadway has a negatively graded left turning curve for the eastbound travel direction. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The posted speed limit is 35 mph (56 km/h) and the overall environment is rural. Vehicle 1, the 2011 Ford F-350 super duty large pick-up truck, was being operated by the 19-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the eastbound travel lane, approaching the curved section of the roadway. Occupying the right seating position was a 19-year-old male passenger. Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point lap/shoulder belts. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, seat back mounted side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the curved section of roadway and continue traveling eastbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, as Vehicle 1 negotiated the left turning curve, it headed toward the right roadside edge. The driver of Vehicle 1 appears to have attempted to brake and steer left, but was unsuccessful. At this time, the right side plane of Vehicle 1 struck/sideswiped a mail box (event 1 / minor) at the south roadside edge. Vehicle 1 then traveled back across the eastbound and westbound travel lanes and departed the roadway on the north side and subsequently struck a tree with its front left corner area (event 2). Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise somewhat and came to rest at the north roadside, just east of the impacted tree. As a result of the tree impact, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed as did both roof side rail curtains and the driver's side hip/torso air bag. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries, while the right front passenger of Vehicle 1 was reported to be uninjured. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.