Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 54-year-old male driver of a 2013 Ford F-150 XL regular cab pick-up truck, which was primarily involved in a near side impact (left side) with the frontal plane of a 1998 Dodge Avenger 2-door coupe. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the post-midnight hours (dark, street lights present), of a winter weekend, at the intersection of an east/west trafficway and a north/south roadway. The bituminous east/west trafficway consists of two eastbound lanes and two westbound lanes, with a raised concrete median dividing the two travel directions. This trafficway is straight, with an uphill grade for the eastbound travel direction. The north/south roadway is straight and consists of one travel lane for each direction and has a downhill grade for the southbound travel direction. Northbound and southbound traffic, leading into and through the intersection, are controlled by signage at the northwest and southeast corners. Both the east/west trafficway and the north/sought roadway have a speed limit of 30 mph (48 km/h). The overall environment is urban, with curb side parking for all roadways. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2013 Ford F-150 XL regular cab pick-up truck, was being operated by the 54-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the right eastbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the west. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags, hip/torso side impact air bags (outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling eastbound. Vehicle 2, a 1998 Dodge Avenger 2-door coupe, was approaching the intersection from the north in the southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling south. Crash: Both Vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1). Both vehicles were redirected in a southeasterly direction and subsequently "side slapped" with the right side plane of Vehicle 2 striking the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 2). Vehicle 2 came to rest at the southeast corner of the intersection, facing an easterly direction. Vehicle 1 also departed the intersection at the southeast corner, heading in a southeasterly direction and subsequently struck a small highway sign with its frontal plane (event 3), a curb with its right front wheel (event 4), a tree with its right side plane (event 5) and brick steps to a residential building with its frontal plane (event 6), before coming to rest, facing a southeasterly direction. As a result of the initial left side impact (event 1), Vehicle 1's left and right side rail curtains deployed as did the driver's side hip/torso air bag and the driver's retractor type pretensioner. The driver's frontal air bag deployed at a later event, but it could not be determined as to which subsequent event caused the deployment. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with a serious injury. The driver and right front passenger of Vehicle 2 were also transported to the regional trauma center, by land unit. The driver of Vehicle 2 was hospitalized, but the extent of their injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. The passenger of Vehicle 2 was treated and released. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.