Case Focus: The focus of this case is on an unbelted 88-year-old male driver of a 2013 Nissan Rogue 4-door station wagon, which was primarily involved in a moderate frontal impact with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) of a summer weekday, on a single-lane access ramp/roadway between two trafficways (interchange area). At the area of the crash, this single-lane roadway runs generally north and has paved shoulders on either side. The roadway starts off straight, but at the area of the crash the roadway is noted to have a sweeping left turning curve. At the curved area of the roadway, the east roadside has a negatively graded grass embankment leading into an area of dense vegetation (vines/brush) and trees. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The roadway has a suggested speed limit of 25 mph (40 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2013 Nissan Rogue 4-door station wagon, was being operated by the 88-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was not belted, but the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat back mounted side impact air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the left turning curve and continue traveling north. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 continued to travel straight at the area of the left turning curve and subsequently departed the right side (east edge) of the roadway. Vehicle 1 continued on in a relatively straight path and traversed the grass covered embankment. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck shrubs/brush/branches at the area of dense vegetation (event 1). Vehicle 1 continued to travel through the dense vegetation and struck a small tree with its right side plane (sideswiping / event 2). Vehicle 1 continued on and eventually struck a tree with its frontal plane (event 3 / main impact) before coming to rest at or near the tree impact, within the area of dense vegetation, facing a northeasterly direction. This last impact with the tree resulted in the driver's frontal air bag deploying. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.