Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted 34-year-old, female driver of a 2014 Mitsubishi Lancer 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a frontal impact with the front right corner area of a 2011 Dodge Ram 1500 large pick-up truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred in the late afternoon hours (daylight) of a winter weekday, at the intersection of an east/west trafficway and a north/south roadway. The western leg of the intersection consists of four eastbound travel lanes separated from three westbound travel lanes by a grass covered median (positive barriers present). The east bound travel direction, leading into the intersection, is straight, with an uphill grade. The eastern leg of the intersection consists of four westbound travel lanes separated from two eastbound travel lanes by a grass covered median (positive barriers present). The westbound travel direction, leading into the intersection, is straight, with a downhill grade. Traffic leading into and through the intersection is controlled by overhead, standard electric, tri-colored signals (functioning properly). The speed limit for the east/west roadway is 55 mph (89 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2014 Mitsubishi Lancer 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 34-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the left eastbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the west. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat-back mounted side air bags (front, outboard positions), roof side rail curtains and a driver's knee bolster air bag. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling east. Vehicle 2, a 2011 Dodge Ram 1500 large pick-up truck, was traveling westbound in the left turn lane, approaching the intersection from the east. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling southbound. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the front right corner area of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Vehicle 1 spun/rotated clockwise as Vehicle 2 spun/rotated counterclockwise and subsequently "side slapped" with Vehicle 1's left side plane striking Vehicle 2's right side plane (event 2). Both vehicles came to rest at unknown locations within the westbound confines of the intersection, likely at or near the southeast corner of the intersection. As a result of the initial impact between the two vehicles, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag and knee bolster air bag deployed. It is suspected that Vehicle 1's driver's side impact air bag (hip/torso) and left roof side rail curtain also deployed during the initial impact, but this cannot be confirmed. Post-Crash: The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle by responding fire/rescue personnel and transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 2 was reported to have sustained non-incapacitating injuries and was also transported from the scene, by land unit, to a local hospital, but the extent of his injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.