Case Focus: The focus of this case is on an unbelted 21-year-old, female driver of a 2010 Mazda 3 4-door sedan, which was involved in a frontal impact with the back plane of a 2003 Chevrolet Trailblazer 4-door utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight) of a fall weekday, at the intersection of a two-lane north/south roadway and a two-lane east/west roadway. The north/south roadway is straight with a slight downhill grade leading into the intersection for the northbound travel direction. The east/west roadway intersects the north/south roadway on the west side, but at a slightly less than ninety-degree angle. Both bituminous roadways were dry at the time of the crash and the weather was cloudy. The north/south roadway has a speed limit of 50 mph (80 km/h) and the overall environment is rural. Vehicle 1, a Mazda 3 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 21-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was not belted, but the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat-back mounted side air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling north. Vehicle 2, a 2003 Chevrolet Trailblazer utility vehicle, was stopped in the northbound travel lane, at the intersection. The driver of Vehicle 2 was intending to turn left and continue traveling westbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the back plane of Vehicle 2 in a rear-end type impact (event 1). Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest, just north of the impact area, at the east paved shoulder area, facing a southwesterly direction. Vehicle 2 was pushed through the intersection in a northerly direction and came to rest in the southbound travel lane, well beyond the intersection, facing a northwesterly direction. As result of the impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was extricated from the vehicle by responding fire/rescue personnel and transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 2 was reported to be un-injured and was not transported from the scene. Both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.