Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted 67-year-old, male driver of a 2013 Toyota Camry, which was primarily involved in a narrow corner, frontal impact with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the post-midnight hour (dark, no street lights) of a fall weekday, on a two-lane bituminous roadway. This roadway runs north and south and has an uphill graded, right turning curve for the southbound travel direction. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The roadway has a speed limit of 40 mph (64 km/h) and the overall environment is rural. Vehicle 1, a 2013 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 67-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat-back mounted side air bags (front and rear, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the right turning curve and continue traveling southbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 drifted off the left side of the roadway (east edge) at the area of the right turning curve. The driver steered right, but Vehicle 1 struck a tree with its left side plane (event 1). Vehicle 1 pivoted/rotated slightly counterclockwise and subsequently struck another tree with its front left corner area (event 2). At this time, Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise off the second tree and across the north/south roadway. Vehicle 1 came to rest in the southbound travel lane, facing a northeasterly direction. As a result of the first tree impact, Vehicle 1's left rear seat-back mounted side air bag deployed, the left side rail curtain deployed and the driver's pretensioner actuated. As a result of the second tree impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag, the driver's knee-bolster air bag, the driver's hip/torso side air bag, and the right side rail side rail curtain deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was extricated from the vehicle by responding fire/rescue personnel (left front door removed) and transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.