Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted 29-year-old, female driver of a 2008 Chevrolet HHR 4-door wagon, which was involved in a severe near side collision (left side plane), with the frontal plane of a 2013 Toyota Tundra pick-up truck. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (dawn), of a summer weekday, at the intersection of an east/west roadway and a north/south trafficway. The east/west roadway (western leg of the intersection) consists of two travel lanes and intersects the north/south trafficway on the west side. At the northern leg of the intersection, the southbound roadway consists of four travel lanes (three through lanes and one dedicated left turn lane/U-turn lane). The southbound lanes are separated from the northbound travel lanes by a grass covered median. Both roadways are straight, with the southbound roadway having a slight uphill grade leading into the intersection. Traffic entering and moving through the intersection is controlled by overhead, standard electric, tri-colored signals. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. The east/west roadway has a speed limit of 40 mph (64 km/h), while the southbound roadway has a speed limit of 45 mph (72 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2008 Chevrolet HHR 4-door wagon, was being operated by the 29-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the eastbound travel lane, at the western leg of the intersection. Vehicle 1 was approaching the intersection and the driver of Vehicle 1 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling northbound. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her respective 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the case vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal impact air bags only. Vehicle 2, a 2013 Toyota Tundra pick-up truck, was traveling in the right southbound through travel lane, approaching the intersection from the north. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling south. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1). Vehicle 2 continued to push Vehicle 1 sideways (sustained contact) as both vehicles traveled in a southeasterly direction. Due to the sustained contact and lateral resistance of the roadway/median surface, Vehicle 1's right side wheels/rims were damaged as it traveled to rest (events 2 and 3). Vehicle 1 eventually came to rest at the grass median (south of the intersection), facing a northeasterly direction. Vehicle 2 came to rest, in close proximity to Vehicle 1, at or near the grass median, facing a southeasterly direction. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed. Post-Crash: The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle by responding emergency medical services personnel and transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 2 was reported to have sustained non-incapacitating injuries and was transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center where they were treated and released with minor injuries. Both vehicles were towed due to damage sustained in the crash.