Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted 37-year-old, female driver of a 2010 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a moderate frontal impact with the right side plane of a 2013 Chevrolet Impala 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the evening hours (dark, street lights present) of a winter weekday, on a six lane, east/west roadway (overpass/bridge). This roadway consists of three westbound travel lanes and three eastbound travel lanes and is straight, with an uphill grade for the westbound travel direction. The speed limit for the roadway is 25 mph (40 km/h). At the time of the crash, it was snowing (intermingled with freezing rain and sleet) and the roadway surface was icy and snow covered. The overall environment is urban. Vehicle 1, the 2010 Honda Civic 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 37-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the left westbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat-back mounted side hip/torso air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling westbound in the left westbound travel lane. Vehicle 2, a 2013 Chevrolet Impala 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound in the far left eastbound travel lane. Vehicle 2 had just crested the top of the overpass and was starting to travel downhill. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling east in the left, eastbound travel lane. Crash: As Vehicle 2 traveled downhill, it experienced a loss of control due to the icy and snow covered roadway surface. Vehicle 2 subsequently slid sideways, right side leading, and into the left westbound travel lane as Vehicle 1 approached from the east. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 2 (event 1). As the vehicles disengaged, Vehicle 2 rotated counterclockwise and its right side plane struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 as it passed by (event 2). Both vehicles came to rest in the roadway, with Vehicle 1 coming to rest in the westbound portion of the roadway and Vehicle 2 coming to rest in the eastbound travel lanes. As a result of the initial impact with Vehicle 2 (event 1), Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed. As a result of the secondary impact (event 2), Vehicle 1's driver's hip/torso air bag deployed as did the left roof side rail curtain. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle by responding fire/rescue personnel and transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with moderate to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to have sustained possible incapacitating injuries and was also transported from the scene, by land unit, to the regional trauma center. The extent of his injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.