Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted 79-year-old, female driver of a 2013 Honda Pilot large utility vehicle, which was primarily involved in a moderate frontal impact with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the post mid-day hours (daylight) of a fall weekday, on a two-lane, east/west trafficway. This bituminous trafficway is level and consists of one eastbound travel lane separated from one westbound travel lane by a grass covered and tree-lined median. The eastbound travel direction, at the area of the crash, has a left turning curve. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. The trafficway has a speed limit of 35 mph (56 km/h) and the overall environment is residential. Vehicle 1, a 2013 Honda Pilot large utility vehicle, was being operated by the 79-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the eastbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat-back mounted side air bags (front outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. Occupying the second-row right seating position was a 9-month-old female passenger who was reported to be utilizing a rear facing child safety seat (unknown manufacturer - model / unknown if "anchor/tether" system used) in conjunction with the vehicle's 3-point lap/shoulder belt (based upon belt loading evidence at that position). The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the left turning curve and continue traveling eastbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 drifted off the right side of the roadway (south roadway edge) and struck a culvert with its lower frontal plane (event 1). At this time, Vehicle 1 traversed a residential driveway and the front yard of private residence (grass covered) before striking a tree with its frontal plane (event 2). Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise a small degree and struck another smaller tree (event 3) and two electrical/cable junction boxes (events 4 & 5) with its left side plane at respective locations before coming to rest, facing a southeasterly direction. As a result of the culvert impact (event 1), Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed and was not available for the more severe second event impact with the tree (event 2). Post-Crash: Both the driver and the 2nd row, right rear 9-month-old female passenger of Vehicle 1 were removed by responding fire/rescue personnel and transported, by land units, to respective local hospitals. The driver of Vehicle 1 was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The child passenger of Vehicle 1 was reported to be uninjured and was released. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.