Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted 83-year-old, female driver of a 2014 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a narrow corner (small overlap) frontal impact with a utility pole. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the late afternoon hours (daylight) of a winter weekend day, on a two-lane, bituminous roadway. This roadway runs north and south with a speed limit of 30 mph (48 km/h). At the area of the crash, the roadway has a right turning curve with a downhill grade for the northbound travel direction. There are no paved shoulders and the overall environment is rural with trees and open fields bordering the roadway. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, a 2014 Toyota Camry 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 83-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her 3-point lap/shoulder belt and the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, driver and right front passenger knee bolster air bags, seat mounted side impact air bags (front and rear outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the graded, right turning curve and continue traveling northbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 traveled north, it drifted left and departed its travel lane and subsequently departed the roadway at the western edge (issue of driver fatigue). Vehicle 1 traveled a short distance at the west roadside before striking some minor brush (event 1) and a 22 cm diameter wooden utility pole (event 2) with its front left corner area. Vehicle 1 dislodged and sheared the pole. Vehicle 1 struck additional roadside brush/shrubs with its frontal plane (event 3) and rotated counterclockwise an unknown degree before coming to rest at the west roadside, facing a northwesterly direction. As a result of the pole impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal and knee bolster air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle by responding fire/rescue personnel and transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.