Case Focus: The focus of this case is on an unbelted 73-year-old, female driver of a 2013 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a frontal impact with the frontal plane of a 2010 Chevrolet Malibu 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the post mid-day hour (daylight) of a fall weekend, at the intersection of a five-lane east/west roadway and a three-lane north/south roadway. The east/west roadway, for both travel directions, consists two eastbound through lanes, two westbound through lanes and a dedicated left turn lane. This roadway is straight and has positive uphill grades leading into the intersection for both travel directions. The north/south roadway, for both travel directions, consists of one northbound lane, one southbound lane and a dedicated left turn lane. This roadway is also straight, with a positive uphill grade leading into the intersection from the south. Traffic leading into and through the intersection is controlled by overhead, standard electric tri-colored traffic signals. The speed limit for the east/west roadway is 45 mph (72 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2013 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 73-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the left eastbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the west. The driver of Vehicle 1 was not belted, but the vehicle is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat-back mounted side air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling east. Vehicle 2, a 2010 Chevrolet Malibu 4-door sedan, was stopped at the intersection in the westbound left turn lane, waiting for traffic to clear. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to turn left and continue traveling southbound. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Vehicle 1 was redirected towards the southeast corner of the intersection where it departed the roadway and struck the end plane of a raised metal fence with its frontal plane (front right corner / event 2) and then a highway sign post with its right side plane (event 3). The sign post was sheared and the broken debris contacted the top plane of Vehicle 1 as it fell to the ground (event 4). Vehicle 1 came to rest at the southeast corner of the intersection facing an easterly direction. As a result of the initial impact, Vehicle 2 was pushed rearward while rotating counterclockwise and came to rest in the eastern leg of the intersection, at the westbound travel lanes, facing a northerly direction. As a result of the initial impact with Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed, as did both roof side rail curtains. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle by responding fire/rescue personnel and transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to have sustained non-incapacitating injuries and was also transported from the scene, by land unit, to the regional trauma center. The extent of his injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.