Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 26-year-old male driver of a 2012 Nissan Rogue 4-door wagon, which was involved in a frontal impact with a wooden utility pole (cracked). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) of a spring weekday, on a two-lane, north/south roadway. This bituminous roadway is level, but has a left turning curve for the southbound travel direction. The speed limit for this roadway is 35 mph (56 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2012 Nissan Rogue 4-door wagon, was being operated by the 26-year-old male driver (case occupant) in the southbound travel lane. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 1 was utilizing his 3-point, lap/shoulder belt and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat-back mounted side air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 was in the process of negotiating the left turning curve and intended to continue traveling southbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 traveled south along the curved section of the roadway, the driver became distracted (reaching for cell phone) and placed himself somewhat out of position in reference to position and belt placement. At this time, Vehicle 1 drifted right and partially off the west roadside edge. At this time, Vehicle 1's frontal plane (front right area) struck a wooden utility pole (cracked). Vehicle 1 rotated/pivoted clockwise about the pole and came to rest straddling the southbound travel lane, facing a southwesterly direction. As a result of the impact with the utility pole (event 1), Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag deployed, as expected, but so did the right roof side rail curtain and the right front seat back mounted side impact air bag. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.