Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 48-year-old male driver of a 2007 Nissan Sentra 4-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a frontal impact with a fixed, traffic light support pole. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the evening hours (dark, street lights present) of an early spring weekday, on a five-lane, east/west roadway, within the area of an intersection. The bituminous east/west roadway, prior to the intersection (eastern leg), is composed of three westbound travel lanes and two eastbound travel lanes. The westbound travel direction, prior to the intersection, has a downhill grade as well as a right turning curve. Although the crash occurred within the confines of a controlled intersection (standard, tri-colored electric traffic signals), the intersection itself did not play a part in the crash. The speed limit for the westbound travel direction is 45 mph (72 km/h) and at the time of the crash, it was raining and the roadway surfaces were wet. Vehicle 1, the 2007 Nissan Sentra 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 48-year-male driver (case occupant) in the center, westbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the east. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his 3-point, lap/shoulder belt and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat-back mounted side air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the graded and curved roadway and pass through the intersection in order to continue traveling westbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 traveled west, in drifted left and across the roadway and then through the intersection, departing the intersection at the southwest corner. At this time, Vehicle 1's front wheels struck a curb (events 1 and 2) before striking a metal traffic support pole with its frontal plane (event 3). Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise about the pole as its rear plane lifted off the ground. As Vehicle 1 came to rest, its left rear wheel struck the ground (event 4). Vehicle 1 came to rest at the impact area (southwest corner of the intersection), facing a westerly direction. As a result of the crash, the driver's frontal air bag deployed as did the right roof side rail curtain and the front right, seat back mounted hip/torso air bag. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.