Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted 30-year-old, female driver of a 2008 Dodge Caliber 4-door hatchback, which was primarily involved in a near side impact with the frontal plane of a 2004 Thomas school bus (cab forward). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (daylight) of a spring weekday, at the intersection of a bituminous east/west roadway and a bituminous north/south roadway. The north/south roadway intersects the east/west roadway on the south side, forming a "T-type" intersection. Both roadways are straight and level. At the time of the crash, the weather was reported to be clear, but the roadway surfaces were wet. The speed limit for the east/west roadway is 40 mph (64 km/h), while the north/south roadway has a speed limit of 25 mph (40 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were wet. Vehicle 1, the 2008 Dodge Caliber 4-door hatchback, was being operated by the 30-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the northbound travel lane. Vehicle 1 was stopped, at the intersection, waiting to turn left. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 1 was restrained by her 3-point, lap/shoulder belt and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, a driver's knee bolster air bag and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling west. Vehicle 2, a 2004 Thomas school bus (cab forward, medium duty), was traveling eastbound approaching the intersection from the west. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling east. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1). Vehicle 2 pushed Vehicle 1 in a southeasterly direction before disengaging. As Vehicle 1 disengaged, Vehicle 1's left side plane struck (sideswiped) the left side plane of Vehicle 2 (event 2). Vehicle 1 eventually departed the roadway, south of the intersection, where its back plane struck small shrubs/bushes (event 3) and its undercarriage struck and embankment of a drainage ditch (event 4), before coming to rest. Scraping to the right rear door (event 5) is present, but to how and when this damage occurred is unknown. Vehicle 1 came to rest, off road, facing a northwesterly direction. Vehicle 2 came to rest in the eastbound travel lane just south of the intersection. As a result of the first impact (event 1) Vehicle 1's left side rail curtain deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured and drove Vehicle 2 away from the scene. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.