Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a belted 83-year-old, right front female passenger of a 2006 Subaru Legacy station wagon, which was involved in a right side impact (near side) with a wooden utility pole. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the evening hours (dark, no street lights) of a winter weekday, on a two-lane east/west roadway. This roadway has a downhill grade and a left turning curve for the eastbound travel direction. At the time of the crash, it was sleeting and the roadway surface was icy with snow and ice accumulations at the roadsides. The speed limit for this east/west roadway is 50 mph (80 km/h). Vehicle 1, the 2006 Subaru Legacy station wagon, was being operated by an 84-year-old female driver in the eastbound travel lane. Occupying the right front seating position was the 83-year-old female passenger (case occupant). Both the driver and right front passenger were restrained by their respective 3-point, lap/shoulder belts. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat-back mounted side air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the graded and curved section of roadway and continue traveling east. Crash: As Vehicle 1 descended the downhill left turning curve, it experienced a loss of control due to the icy roadway surface. Vehicle 1 subsequently departed the south side of the roadway, near the termination point of the left turning curve, and slid, right side leading, into a wooden utility pole. Vehicle 1 reportedly broke the pole in half before rotating clockwise and sliding to rest, east of the struck pole, near some off-road brush (no impact), facing a possible easterly direction. As a result of the impact with the pole, Vehicle 1's right roof rail curtain air bag deployed as did the right front passenger's side hip/torso air bag (seat back mounted). Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a local hospital and was treated for minor injuries and released. The right front passenger of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle by responding fire/rescue personnel (right front door removed) and transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred (post-midnight) to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.