Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 23-year-old male driver of a 2013 Chevrolet Cruze 4-door sedan, which was involved in a head-on impact with the frontal plane of a 2003 Toyota Sequoia large utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the evening hours (dark, street lights present) of a summer weekday, on a curved and graded, interchange exit ramp, near the intersection with an east/west trafficway. This single ramp lane runs generally southbound and has a right turning curve, with an uphill grade. Just prior to the intersection (northern leg), the ramp widens into a three lanes (two left turn lanes and a right turn/merge lane). The speed limit is 30 mph (48 km/h) and at the time of the crash it was raining and the roadway surface was wet. Vehicle 1, the 2013 Chevrolet Cruze 4-door sedan, was being operated by the 23-year-old male driver (case occupant). The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 1 was restrained by his 3-point, lap/shoulder belt and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, driver and passenger knee-bolster air bags, seat-back mounted side air bags (front and rear, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 gained access to the southbound exit ramp area while traveling northbound (wrong way). It is unknown as to which travel direction the driver of Vehicle 1 intended to take nor which area of the intersection access was made. Vehicle 2, a 2003 Toyota Sequoia large utility vehicle, was traveling southbound in the south exit ramp lane, approaching the intersection from the north. The driver of Vehicle 2 had just maneuvered into the center lane (right, left turn lane) and intended to enter the intersection (dependent upon traffic signals). Crash: Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 struck head-on in the southbound exit ramp, at or near the area of widening. It is believed that both vehicles rotated clockwise an unknown degree before coming to rest in the travel lanes. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal and knee bolster air bags deployed as did both left and right side rail curtains. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by land unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 2 was reported to have sustained non-incapacitating injuries, but the extent of those injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.