Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 70-year-old female driver (case occupant 1) and a 67-year-old, right front female passenger (case occupant 2), both the occupants of a 2009 Audi Q7 compact utility vehicle, which was involved in a head-on collision with a 2004 Kia Optima 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) of an early fall weekday, on a curved two-lane roadway. This bituminous roadway runs generally north and south and has a right turning curve for the southbound travel direction. The roadway has a slight downhill grade for the southbound travel direction as well as paved shoulders for either side. Though the crash occurred at an intersection with a residential roadway, the intersection did not play a part in the crash. The speed limit for the north/south roadway is 45 mph (72 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2009 Audi Q7 compact utility vehicle, was being operated by the 70-year-old female driver (case occupant 1) in the southbound travel lane. Occupying the right front seating position was the 67-year-old female passenger (case occupant 2). Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point, lap/shoulder belts. Vehicle 1 is also noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat-back mounted side air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the right turning curve and continue traveling south. Vehicle 2, a 2004 Kia Optima 4-door sedan, was being operated by a 29-year-old male driver and sole occupant, in the northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to negotiate the left turning curve and continue traveling northbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 entered the northbound travel lanes while traveling south. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 in a head-on fashion (event 1). Both vehicles are believed to have come to rest at or near the impact area, but facing unknown directions. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's driver's and passenger's frontal air bags deployed and the front, seat belt pretensioners actuated. Post-Crash: All three occupants of the involved vehicles were transported, by land units, to a regional trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 2 died prior to admission. The driver and right front passenger of Vehicle 1 were both hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.