Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 66-year-old right front female passenger of a 2006 Nissan Xterra utility vehicle, which was primarily involved in a frontal impact with the frontal planeof a 2015 Chevrolet Cruze 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the late morning hours (daylight) of a spring weekday, at the intersection of an east/west trafficway and a north/south roadway. The eastbound travel direction, prior to the intersection is straight and composed of four travel lanes (two-through lanes, a left turn lane and a right turn lane), with an uphill grade. The westbound travel direction, prior to the intersection, is also composed of four travel lanes (same configuration), straight, but with a downhill grade. The north and south legs of the intersection did not play a part in the crash. Traffic entering and passing through the intersection is controlled by overhead, standard electric tri-colored traffic signals. The speed limit for the east/west trafficway is 55 mph (89 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2006 Nissan Xterra utility vehicle, was being operated by a 70-year-old male driver in the left, eastbound through lane, approaching the intersection from the west. Occupying the right front seating position was the 66-year-old female passenger (case occupant). Both occupants of Vehicle 1 were restrained by their respective 3-point, lap/shoulder belts and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling eastbound. Vehicle 2, a 2015 Chevrolet Cruze 4-door sedan, was in the left turn lane at the eastern leg of the intersection. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling southbound. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the front right area (inclusive of the right side) of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Vehicle 2 spun counterclockwise in an easterly direction as Vehicle 1 was redirected to the southeast corner of the intersection. Vehicle 1 departed the intersection and struck a utility pole with its frontal plane (event 2) before coming to rest, at the pole, facing a southeasterly direction. Vehicle 2 came to rest in the intersection, in the eastbound through lanes, facing a southwesterly direction. As a result of the first event, Vehicle 1's frontal impact air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The driver and right front passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported, by land unit, to a local hospital. The driver of Vehicle 1 was treated and released, but the case occupant was transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to moderate injuries. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 2 was reported to have sustained non-incapacitating injuries and was also transported to a local hospital. The extent of their injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. Both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.