Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 21-year-old right front female passenger of a 2011 Jeep Compass wagon, which was involved in a frontal impact with a tree. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the post-midnight hours (dark, no street lights) of a spring weekday, on a straight and level, two-lane bituminous roadway. This roadway runs generally east and west and has a speed limit of 35 mph (56 km/h). At the time of the crash, it was raining and the roadway surface was wet. The overall environment is rural with trees/woods bordering either roadside edge. Vehicle 1, the 2011 Jeep Compass wagon, was being operated by a 25-year-old male driver in the eastbound travel lane. Occupying the right front seating position was the 21-year-old female passenger (case occupant), while a 32-year-old male passenger occupied the right rear seating position. Both the driver and the right front passenger were restrained by their respective 3-point, lap/shoulder belts. The right rear male passenger was unrestrained. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat-back mounted side air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling eastbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 traveled off the south edge of the roadway (right side) and eventually struck a tree (37-40 cm in diameter) with its frontal plane (front right). Vehicle 1 pivoted/rotated slightly clockwise and came to rest straddling the south roadway edge, at or near the impacted tree, facing a southeasterly direction. As a result of the frontal impact with the tree, Vehicle 1's front seat belt pretensioners actuated and the frontal impact air bags deployed. Post-Crash: The right front and right rear passengers of Vehicle 1 were transported, by respective land units, to a local hospital. The 21-year-old female (case occupant) was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. The extent of the 32-year-old right rear male passenger's injuries and treatment, if any, are unknown. The driver of Vehicle 1 was reported to have sustained only minor injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.