Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 35-year-old female driver of a 2010 Jeep Grand Cherokee utility vehicle, which was primarily involved in a rollover event. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours (daylight) of a spring weekday, on a bituminous, two-lane, north/south roadway. This roadway is relatively level, but the southbound travel direction has a long, gentle sweeping right hand curve leading into the area of the crash and beyond. The speed limit for the roadway is 55 mph (89 km/h) and at the time of the crash, it was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, the 2010 Jeep Grand Cherokee utility vehicle was being operated by the 35-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the southbound travel lane. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 1 was not restrained by her 3-point, lap/shoulder belt, but Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the right hand curve and continue traveling southbound. Crash: As Vehicle 1 traveled south along the curved section of roadway, it drifted left and across the northbound travel lane and eventually departed the eastern edge of the roadway. Subsequently, Vehicle 1 traveled across/engaged a small grass embankment/ditch area with its undercarriage area (event 1). Vehicle 1 continued on a short distance and traveled across and over a raised driveway, yawing left and probably becoming airborne. Vehicle 1 landed a short distance south of the raised driveway area and contacted the ground with its front right corner area (inclusive of the right front wheel) and right rear wheel (event 2) and began to roll right about its longitudinal axis (event 3). Vehicle 1 rolled approximately 30 meters before coming to rest on its wheels (8 quarter turns), off road, facing a northerly direction. As a result of the crash, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags and roof side rail curtains deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.