Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 14-year-old right front male passenger, of a 2014 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan, who was primarily involved in a far side impact by the frontal plane of a 2013 Nissan Armada utility vehicle. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours (daylight) of a spring weekday, at the intersection of a two-lane, bituminous east/west roadway and a two-lane, bituminous north/south roadway. The north/south roadway is relatively straight and level, while the east/west roadway, at both sides of the intersection, is curved and graded (uphill), with a noted offset between the eastern and western legs. Traffic control devices (stop signs) are also posted at the eastern and western legs. The speed limit for both roadways is 45 mph (72 km/h). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. The overall environment is rural. Vehicle 1, the 2014 Hyundai Elantra 4-door sedan, was being operated by a 52-year-old female driver in the westbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the east. Occupying the right front seating position was a 14-year-old male passenger (case occupant), while a 15-year-old male passenger occupied the right rear seating position. The driver, right front passenger and right rear passenger were restrained by their respective 3-point, lap/shoulder belts. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, seat-back mounted side air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling westbound. Vehicle 2, a 2013 Nissan Armada utility vehicle, was traveling northbound, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling northbound. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1). At this time, Vehicle 1 was spun counterclockwise (approximately 180 degrees) towards the northwest corner of the intersection where it departed the intersection/roadway, striking a utility pole with its frontal plane (event 2) and coming to rest, facing a westerly direction. Vehicle 2 moved through the impact and came to rest just north of the intersection, in the northbound travel lane, facing north. As a result of the first impact (event 1), Vehicle 1's driver's seat back mounted side hip/torso air bag deployed as did the left roof side rail curtain. Post-Crash: The driver and right front passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported, by respective air units, to a regional trauma center. The driver was treated and released with minor injuries, while the right front passenger (case occupant) sustained minor to serious injuries. The right rear passenger of Vehicle 1 was also transported, by land unit, to a local hospital and was treated and released. The driver and three passengers of Vehicle 2 were transported, by land units, to a local hospital where they were treated and released. Both Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.