This 44-year old female case occupant was the belted right front passenger of a 2013 Acura RDX compact utility vehicle, which was involved in a moderate 11 o'clock frontal collision with a stone wall (reinforced by earth). As a result of the wall impact, the case vehicle's frontal impact air bags deployed, as did the case occupant's side hip/torso air bag and roof side rail curtain. The case occupant was sitting upright in a bucket seat, which was found, at inspection, adjusted to the mid-to-rear seat track position. At the time of the crash, the case occupant was 57 inches (145 cm) in height and weighed 179 pounds (81 kg). Prior to the main impact, the case vehicle was in a slight left turn and struck a curb with its right front wheel causing the case occupant to be biased slightly right, forward and downward. However, during the main impact with the wall, the case occupant was projected mostly forward and somewhat to the right, in reference to the vehicle. The case occupant loaded her seat belt restraint with her upper torso and pelvis/abdomen (issue of submarining during the crash) as her pelvis slightly deformed the forward portion of the seat pan. Her left knee slightly deformed the instrument panel (just left of the glove box door) while her right knee is suspected of contacting the right side of the instrument panel (inferred based upon injury). Her upper right leg (thigh) is suspected of contacting the right door panel armrest trim panel (displaced), while her right upper extremity possibly contacted the interior door panel (rear upper quadrant area). The case occupant eventually rebounded and came to rest within her respective seating area where she was found by responding emergency medical services personnel (EMS). She was removed from the vehicle and transported, by land unit, to nearby medical facility (hospital), but was pronounced dead on arrival. The case occupant's injuries include: bilateral lung contusions, fractures of the right 2nd, 4th through 8th ribs, fractures of the left 1st through 5th ribs, a stomach laceration, a neck abrasion/contusion, chest contusions, a colon laceration, a jejunum laceration, a liver laceration, a mesentery laceration and a spleen laceration, all due to certain contact/interaction with the seat belt webbing at respective regions. The case occupant also sustained fractures of the T8 and T9 due to possible thoracic flexion about the seat belt. A right knee laceration was due to probable contact with the knee bolster/right instrument panel, while a left knee contusion and a lower left leg contusion were due to certain contact with the knee bolster/lower instrument panel. Right forearm contusions, a right elbow contusion and a right hand contusion were the possible result of contact with the right interior door panel (rear upper quadrant area). Finally, a chin contusion was the probable result of contact with a deployed frontal air bag, while a left hand abrasion and a left thigh contusion were both due to unknown contact sources respectively. The maximum Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS) for this case occupant was AIS 3.