Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 46-year-old male driver and a 44-year-old right front female passenger, both the occupants of a 2013 Acura RDX compact utility vehicle, which was primarily involved in a frontal impact with a stone wall. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) of a summer weekday, at the intersection of an east/west roadway and a north/south roadway. The east/west roadway is straight, with a downhill grade for the eastbound travel direction, and consists of two eastbound lanes and one westbound lane. The east/west roadway intersects the north/south roadway on the west side forming a "T-type" intersection. The multi-lane north/south roadway is straight, with an uphill grade for the northbound travel direction and did not play a part in the crash. Traffic entering and passing through the intersection is controlled by overhead, standard electric tri-colored traffic signals. The speed limit for the east/west roadway is 30 mph (48 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, the 2013 Acura RDX, was being operated by the 46-year-old male driver (case occupant 1) in the left, eastbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the west. Occupying the right front seating position was the 44-year-old female passenger (case occupant 2). The driver of Vehicle 1 was unbelted while the right front passenger was restrained by her 3-point lap/shoulder belt. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, side hip/torso air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. It is believed that the driver of Vehicle 1 intended to stop at the intersection and eventually turn left at the intersection and continue traveling northbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 1 entered the intersection, but departed the east side of the intersection while in a left turning mode. It is unknown if the driver was under steering for the turn or steering left to avoid an impact or a combination. At this time, the front right wheel of Vehicle 1 struck a 20 cm high curb (event 1). Subsequently, Vehicle 1 struck a stone wall (earth reinforced) with its frontal plane (event 2) before pivoting/rotating clockwise and coming to rest within the intersection (northbound travel lanes), facing an easterly direction. As a result of the wall impact (event 2), Vehicle 1's frontal impact air bags deployed, as did the right front passenger's side hip/torso air bag and roof side rail curtain. Post-Crash: The driver and right front passenger of Vehicle 1 were extricated from the vehicle, after all four doors and B-pillars were removed by fire/rescue personnel, and transported, by land units, to respective treatment facilities. The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to serious injuries, while the right front passenger of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital, but pronounced dead on arrival. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.