Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 62-year-old female driver of a 2014 Hyundai Elantra 4-door hatchback, which was involved in a far side impact (right side plane) by the frontal plane of a 2009 Kenworth T660 heavy truck-tractor pulling a single semi-trailer. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the morning hours (dawn, street lights present) of a fall weekday, at the intersection of a north/south trafficway and an east/west trafficway access ramp (interchange area). Leading to the intersection from the south is one northbound travel lane, while leading into the intersection from the north, the southbound travel direction consists of one dedicated through lane separated from a dedicated left turn lane by a painted median/island. The north/south trafficway is relatively straight but is graded with a notable negative grade for the southbound direction and a notable positive grade for the northbound direction. A raised, curbed grass median separates the northbound travel lanes from the southbound travel lanes. There are no traffic controls for the two travel directions at the intersection and the speed limit is 50 mph (80 km/h). At the time of the crash, in was raining and the roadway surfaces were wet. Vehicle 1, the 2014 Hyundai Elantra 4-door hatchback, was being operated by the 62-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the southbound travel direction, in the left turn lane, approaching the intersection from the north. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 1 was restrained by a 3-point lap/shoulder belt and Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with frontal impact air bags, a driver's knee bolster air bag, side impact hip/torso air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to turn left at the intersection and take the eastbound access ramp to the east/west trafficway. Vehicle 2, the 2009 Kenworth T660 heavy truck-tractor pulling one semi-trailer, was traveling northbound, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling north. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1) in the northbound travel lane of the intersection. Vehicle 2 moved northward pushing Vehicle 1 with it. As Vehicle 2 came to stop just north of the intersection, Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise and disengaged from Vehicle 2. At this time, the right rear corner of Vehicle 1 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 2 (event 2). Vehicle 1 continued to rotate counterclockwise as it moved in a northwesterly direction. Vehicle 1 eventually struck the curb of the north median with its left front wheel (event 3) as it departed the roadway. Vehicle 1 came to rest, in the grass covered north median, facing a northerly direction. It should be noted that Vehicle 1 exhibited minor left side scraping/abrasion at the left rear door handle suggesting a minor impact (event 4), though the object struck could not be located or identified at the scene (possible collapsible reflector post or sign post at the north median, but unconfirmed). As a result of the crash, Vehicle 1's driver's frontal air bag, driver's knee bolster air bag, both side hip/torso air bags and both roof side rail curtains deployed. Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was removed from the vehicle and transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to critical injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was also transported, by land unit, to a local hospital. The extent of their injuries, and treatment, if any are unknown. Vehicle 1 was towed to due to damage sustained in the crash. Vehicle 2 was towed as well, but not due to disabling damage (still functional).