Case Focus: The focus of this case is on a 53-year-old female driver of a 2011 Ford Flex station wagon, which was involved in an offset frontal collision with the frontal plane of a 2011 BMW 528i 4-door sedan. Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This two-vehicle collision occurred during the afternoon hours (daylight) of a winter weekday, on an east/west, two-lane bituminous roadway. This roadway is level, but has a right-turning curve for the westbound travel direction. The speed limit for the roadways is 40 mph (64 km/h) and at the time of the crash, the weather was clear, but the roadway surface was wet. The overall environment is rural with low marshy areas bordering either side of the roadway. Vehicle 1, the 2011 Ford Flex station wagon, was being operated by the 53-year-old female driver (case occupant) in the westbound travel lane. Occupying the right front seating position was a 19-year-old male passenger. Occupying the second row left, center and right positions were a 35-year-old female adult, a 6-year-old female child and a 9-year-old male child, respectively. All occupants of Vehicle 1 were restrained by 3-point lap/shoulder belts with the second row, center occupant also using an unknown booster seat. Vehicle 1 is noted to be equipped with advanced frontal air bags, side impact hip/torso air bags (front, outboard positions) and roof side rail curtains. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to negotiate the right turning curve and continue traveling westbound. Vehicle 2, a 2011 BMW 528i 4-door sedan, was traveling eastbound, approaching the left turning curve from the west. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to negotiate the curve and continue traveling eastbound. Crash: For unknown reasons, Vehicle 2 drifted into the westbound travel lane as it rounded the curved section of the roadway. At this time, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 in an offset fashion. Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise approximately 180 degrees and departed the north side of the roadway and came to rest in the marshy area, at the north roadside, facing an easterly direction. Vehicle 2 also rotated counterclockwise and came to rest in the roadway, facing a northerly direction (unconfirmed). As a result of the impact, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed as did the driver's side hip/torso air bag and both roof side rail curtains. Post-Crash: The driver, the right front passenger, the second row left passenger and the second row right passenger of Vehicle 1 were removed from the vehicle by responding emergency medical services personnel (roof structure and left side doors removed), while the second row, center occupant was able to extricate herself. The right front passenger, the second row, center passenger and the second row, right passenger were transported, by land unit, to a local hospital, while the driver and the second row, left passenger were transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center. The driver of Vehicle 1 was hospitalized with minor to serious injuries, while all the other occupants of Vehicle 1 were treated and released. The driver of Vehicle 2 refused treatment and it is unknown if he sought treatment later. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.