This case involved an unbelted 2nd row right seat passenger responding to a left side leading rollover sequence. The case subject suffered 'severe' injury. This single vehicle crash occurred on a four-lane, divided, north/south state route traveling through an agricultural/rural area. The north/south trafficway had two lanes for travel in each direction divided by a depressed median. The level trafficway curves as it passes over an irrigation canal. The weather was clear and the concrete lanes dry during the early morning (dark-not lit), weekend crash. The case vehicle (2005 Ford Ranger, 2-door, extra cab pickup) was traveling northbound on its approach to the crash site. The roadway curves right as it passes over the irrigation canal. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row frontal impact air bags. There were six occupants riding in the vehicle, none of whom were using their belt restraint. Present were the 18-year-old male driver, 19 year-old female front center passenger, 19 year-old male front right passenger, 19 year-old male 2nd row left passenger, 18-year-old male 2nd row center passenger and the 23-year-old male 2nd row right passenger (case subject). The driver of the case vehicle allowed the vehicle to travel off of the left (west) roadside into the dirt median as he was negotiating the right curve. He attempted to steer back to the roadway but had to suddenly turn back to the left because of another vehicle passing by on roadway. He steered again to the right and the vehicle began a clockwise yaw as it came back from the dirt median to the roadway. The vehicle tripped to the left landing first on its right roof rail. The vehicle continued and struck down a square wooden sign post with its left plane as it completed an estimated 12 quarter-turn sequence coming to rest on its wheels with its back half submerged in the irrigation canal and its front pointed uphill out of the ditch. The front right seat passenger was completely ejected during the overturn sequence, presumably as it came up off of the roadway after its first landing (right roof rail). The vehicle was towed from the scene due to disabling damage. All of the occupants were transported to a local medical facility. The subject was transferred to a trauma facility due to 'severe' injury(s). The, ejected, front right-seat passenger was pronounced deceased as a result of this crash.