This case involved the belted 35-year-old female driver of a passenger car responding to a frontal impact, offset left, with an unknown pickup. The case vehicle's frontal-impact air bags deployed during the eleven o'clock principal direction of force impact. The collision resulted in 'moderate' to 'severe' severity damage to the vehicle while the subject sustained serious injuries. This two-vehicle crash occurred at the four-way intersection of two urban trafficways traveling through an urban area. The north/south trafficway consisted of three lanes, with one lane in each direction, and a center turn lane. The roadway was relatively level until crossing the intersecting street, which had a notably significant crown. The southbound approach was set at an angle to the straight northbound approach. There was diagonal parking along the right side of the travel lanes. The intersection was controlled by tri-color traffic signals at all corners. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the afternoon, weekday crash. The Case Vehicle (V1, 2002 Ford Mustang convertible) was traveling northbound on its approach to the intersection with the intention of traveling straight through. V1 was lap and shoulder belt equipped and had first row frontal-impact air bags. The 35-year-old female driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint during the crash. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2006 unknown make/model/size "truck" presumed pickup) was traveling southbound on its approach to the intersection with the intention of turning left. Both vehicles entered the intersection simultaneously with V2 making the left turn across the path of V1. The front left corner of V1 struck the front center of V2. V1's frontal-impact air bags deployed. The 11 o'clock principal direction of force impact rotated V1 approximately 35-degrees clockwise as V1's rear end lifted up off of the ground. V1 came to rest facing northeast with a few meters of impact. V2 was deflected to the left, rotating approximately 30-degrees and came to rest facing southeast adjacent to V1. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The case subject (driver V1) was transported to a trauma facility due to serious injury.