This case involves the belted 79-year-old female driver of a passenger car responding to a 10 o'clock principal direction of force, near side (off center forward) impact with the front of a large pickup without air bag protection. The subject sustained severe injury as a result. This two-vehicle crash occurred at the three-way intersection of a four-lane, east/west, divided trafficway and a two-lane, north/south driveway that adjoined from the north. The residential intersection was controlled by a Stop sign at the north (driveway) leg. The driveway had two lanes designated either left turn or right turn, was straight and level, and constructed of concrete. The east/west trafficway was curved, level and bituminous. The weather was clear and the roadways dry during the afternoon, weekend crash. The Case Vehicle (V1, 2007 Toyota Camry, 4-door sedan) was traveling south in the designated left turn lane on its approach to the intersection intending to turn left. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts (pretensioner), first row frontal impact air bags, driver's bolster mounted frontal impact knee-bag and roof rail mounted side impact air bags. The 79-year-old female driver (Case subject/sole occupant) was determined to have been using the belt restraint based on circumstantial evidence. The opposing vehicle (V2, 1972 Ford F250 pickup) was traveling westbound in the number-two lane (left) intending to travel straight through. The four-lane, divided, level roadway had a left curvature. The driver of V1 (subject) approached the intersection and reportedly came to a stop. V1's driver then began to pull into the intersection anticipating a left turn maneuver just as V2 neared the intersection. The driver of V2 observed this but not able to avoid V1. The front of V2 struck the left side of V1 forward of it's A-pillar. The impact caused V1 to rotate clockwise approximately 180-degrees as it was deflected to the west and then north where it mounted the northwest corner and struck down the Stop sign with its right side. V1 came to rest there, facing NW. V2 was deflected to the nort west and also mounted the NW corner, coming to rest facing NW Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case subject (driver V1) was transported to a trauma facility due to serious injuries. The driver of V2 suffered a laceration to his forehead.