This case involved the twenty-two year old, twenty-eight weeks pregnant, female driver of a passenger car responding to an offset frontal impact with a median barrier. The subject was using the pretensioner equipped lap and shoulder belt and the steering hub mounted frontal-impact air bag deployed. The twelve o'clock principal direction of force impact caused moderate vehicle damage and resulted in the vehicle being towed, however, the subject was treated only for a mild abrasion to the face. This crash occurred on the southbound side of a, divided, multi-lane interstate traveling through an urban area. There were four lanes for southbound travel, and two exiting lanes divided from the northbound lanes by a concrete barrier. The right two lanes make up a long, gradual divergence from the continuing interstate and are separated by a solid white delineation. The lanes were straight and relatively level, with the crash occurring on a slightly elevated overpass. The weather was clear and the concrete roadway dry during the afternoon, weekday crash. The Case Vehicle (2003 Hyundai XG350, 4-door sedan) was traveling southbound in the # 4 lane intending to change lanes to the right. The vehicle's first row lap and shoulder belts were pretensioner equipped, and there were first row frontal-impact air bags and first row seat back mounted side-impact air bags available. The 22-year-old female (28 weeks pregnant) driver is the case subject and sole occupant of the vehicle. She was using the belt restraint. A non-contact vehicle, described on the crash report as a "white Jeep Cherokee", was traveling southbound in the # 2 lane (an exit lane) ahead of the case vehicle's position. As this vehicle got to the separation point of the exiting lanes, the non-contact driver changed lanes to the left, into the continued southbound lane, apparently deciding not to exit. The case vehicle (southbound # 4) was approaching the point where the two exit lanes diverged from the continuing interstate and determined to change lanes to the right (southbound # 3) just as the non-contact vehicle also began its left lane change ahead of her. The vehicles were separated by significant distance and while the non-contact vehicle continued southbound, now in the number-four lane, the case vehicle steered sharply to the left in an effort to avoid perceived contact. The case vehicle tracked diagonally southeast across the southbound lanes and struck the center concrete divider with its front left. The impact caused the vehicle to rotate counterclockwise and strike the barrier a second time with its back right. The vehicle had slight contact with the barrier a third time and came to rest partially blocking the southbound number-one lane facing east by northeast. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage and the subject transported as precaution, however, the only injury sustained was an abrasion to the left side of her face.