This case involved the belted female driver of a passenger car responding to a near-side impact with the back plane of a stopped semi-trailer. The vehicle sustained 'severe' damage due to the hinge failure of the subject's door in the ten o'clock principal direction of force impact. The subject received serious injuries in the crash. This single vehicle crash occurred on a one-way, one lane interstate entrance ramp in a rural setting. From the southbound interstate, an exit ramp departed to the right (west) crossed an intersection with a surface street, and returned to the interstate. The intersection was controlled by tri-color traffic signals. Along the left side (east) of the curved entrance ramp was a wide gravel shoulder used by interstate truckers to stop and park, legally. There was, at least, one tractor-trailer combination parked there. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the early morning (dark-not lit) crash. The case vehicle (2005 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan) was traveling southbound on the interstate in the number-one lane. The vehicle's first row lap and shoulder belts were retractor-pretensioner equipped and there were first row frontal-impact air bags. The 49-year-old case subject was the driver and was using the belt restraint, based on physical evidence. The 52-year-old male front right seat passenger was not using the belt restraint. The 9-year-old male second row left seat passenger and the 6-year-old female second row right seat passenger were determined to have been using the belt restraints. The subject/driver decided to get off of the interstate and took the exit ramp. For an undetermined reason the subject did not turn onto the surface street, rather continued across the intersection and onto the interstate entrance ramp in one continuous motion. The entrance ramp was set a little lower than the surface street, making it hard to see the configuration of the entrance ramp until across the intersection. Once the subject cleared the intersection she steered the vehicle hard to the left for unknown reasons. The vehicle responded by leaving the left (east) side of the entrance ramp and onto the gravel shoulder. The subject steered hard to the right in an attempt to regain the roadway, which resulted in the vehicle entering into a clockwise yaw as it slid toward the back of a stopped tractor-trailer (moving truck). The vehicle slid into the back plane (equipped with a lift that was stowed) of the trailer with its left side, centered in the driver's door. The forward hinge of the subject's door failed as a low, horizontal, component of the lift engaged the left side doors and B-pillar. The vehicle's frontal-impact air bags deployed. The vehicle came to rest against the trailer facing southwest. The case vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. The subject was transported to a trauma facility due to serious injury(s). The front right seat passenger was also transported, but with only complaint of pain. The two occupants of the second row were not injured.