This case involved a belted, 81-year-old male driver of a compact passenger car responding to a far-side impact with another passenger car. The two o'clock principal direction of force resulted in 'minor' vehicle damage however, the subject sustained serious injury(s). This two-vehicle crash occurred at the four-way intersection of two adjacent multi-lane trafficways. The northbound approach to the intersection consisted of five traffic lanes divided from the southbound lanes by a raised curb median, with two lanes designated for left turns, two lanes for northbound travel and a single lane designated for right turns. There was an uphill grade and left curve for the northbound approach. The eastbound approach consisted of four lanes, which were divided from the westbound lanes by a raised curb median. There were two designated left turn lanes, a single lane for continued eastbound travel and a single designated right turn lane. The east/west trafficway was relatively straight and level. The intersection was controlled by tri-color traffic signals at all corners. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadways dry during the afternoon, weekend crash. The Case Vehicle (V1, 2004 Hyundai Elantra, 4-door sedan) was traveling eastbound on its approach to the intersection in the number-two lane (continued straight). V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts, first row frontal impact and first row seat-back mounted side-impact air bags. None of the air bags deployed during the crash. The 81-year-old male driver (case subject, sole occupant) was using the belt restraint based on physical evidence. The opposing vehicle (v2, 2001 Hyundai Accent, 2-door sedan) was traveling northbound on its approach to the intersection in the number-two lane (continued straight). Both vehicles entered the intersection simultaneously and the front-left of V2 struck the right-front of V1, well forward of the A-pillar. The 2 o'clock principal direction of force impact caused V1 to rotate counterclockwise where the right rear of V1 struck the left rear of V2 in a secondary impact (side-slap). Both vehicles came to rest within close proximity of impact with both V1 and V2 facing northeast adjacent to each other. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. The case subject was transported to a medical facility due to injury.