This case involves the belted female driver of a minivan responding to a six quarter-turn trip-over with seat back mounted side-impact air bag deployment. The vehicle sustained 'moderate' damage while the subject sustained serious injury. This single vehicle crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a four-lane, divided, interstate traveling through a rural area. There were two lanes for travel in each direction divided by a natural median. The eastbound lanes had a sweeping left curve just prior to the crash site approach, and the site itself was in the midst of a roadway sag. The roadway was bordered by paved shoulders. The narrow median shoulder gave way to a sand/dirt shoulder with a downward embankment. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the afternoon weekday crash. The case vehicle (2003 Honda Odyssey, 4-door passenger van) was traveling eastbound in the number-two lane. The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts, first row frontal-impact air bags and seat back mounted side-impact air bags. There were two occupants in the case vehicle. The 82-year-old female driver (case subject) and the 85-year-old front right seat passenger were both using their belt restraints. The subject allowed the vehicle to drive off of the left roadside and onto the sand shoulder. The subject became startled, and steered sharply to the right. The vehicle began an ever-increasing clockwise yaw as it tried to regain the roadway, however, the downward, sand, shoulder/embankment restricted the vehicle's motion. The vehicle's front left wheel rim gouged into the bituminous roadway surface and caused the vehicle to trip to the left. The vehicle landed first with its left roof/roof rail, continuing for six quarter-turns before coming to rest on its top in the eastbound number-two lane facing southwest. The subject's seat back mounted side-impact air bag deployed during the sequence. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. Both occupants were transported to a trauma facility due to varying degrees of injury, with the subject sustaining the more serious.