This case involved the belted twenty-two-year-old driver of a compact passenger car responding to a near-side impact with the back of a pickup. The subject's frontal-impact air bag, and his seat-back mounted side-impact air bag, both deployed as a result of the ten-o'clock principal direction of force impact. The collision resulted in serious injury to the subject while causing 'severe' vehicle damage. This two-vehicle crash occurred in to the southbound lanes of a multi-lane interstate transition divergence. On the approach to the crash site there were four lanes for continued southbound travel (lanes 4, 5, 6, and 7) and three lanes transitioning to an adjacent interstate (lanes 1, 2 and 3). The trafficway was straight with a slight upgrade. The weather was clear and the bituminous number-one lane (all olther lanes were concrete) dry during the morning (daylight), weekday crash. The case Vehicle (V1, 2003 Volkswagen Beetle, 2-door sedan) was traveling southbound in the number-one lane. V1's first row lap and shoulder belts were retractor-type pretensioner equipped and there were first row frontal-impact and first row seat back mounted side-impact air bags. The twenty-two year old male driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint, as evidenced. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2005 Ford F-150 pickup) was traveling southbound in the number-one lane, some distance ahead of V1. As heavy traffic began to back up on the three-lane divergence, V2 came to a complete stop. The subject (driver of V1) noted this and immediately began to brake and steer left (into the southbound number-two lane) where he also observed stopped vehicles. The driver abruptly steered back to the right and the vehicle entered into an, ever-increasing, clockwise yaw as it continued southwest back into the number-one lane. The vehicle rotated clockwise approximately 70-degrees (relative to its original heading) until its left side struck the back plane of V2. V1s frontal-impact air bags, and the driver's seat back mounted side-impact air bag deployed. The impact lifted V2s rear end as it mounted the side of V1. The impact reversed V1s rotation as it separated from V2. Now in a counterclockwise rotation, V1s right rear struck the outside, concrete barrier where V1 came to rest facing south. V2 was put into motion by the impact, coming to rest a few meters south of the impact facing south east. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The driver of V1 (case subject) was transported to a trauma facility due to serious injury.