This case(s) involved the belted driver, and two rear seat occupants, of a sport utility vehicle responding to a, primary, frontal impact into a concrete block wall corner. The frontal impact air bags deployed. The 'moderate', 12 o'clock principal direction of force, impact caused varying degrees of abdominal injury to all three subjects. This crash began as a two-vehicle collision at a four-way intersection, traveling through an urban setting. The east/west trafficway had five lanes, two lanes for continued traffic in each direction with a designated left turn lane. The north/south trafficway had a single lane for travel in each direction. The intersection was controlled by stop signs at the north and south junctures. There were buildings along the east/west, street. In particular, there was an elevated concrete patio in front of a business at the southeast corner. The weather was clear and the straight, level, roadways dry during the weekend nighttime (dark-lit) crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2004 Mercury Mountaineer, 4-door sport utility vehicle) was traveling eastbound in the number-one lane (right). V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row frontal impact air bags. There were four occupants in V1 at the time of the crash. The 50-year-old male driver (case subject 1), 47-year-old male front right-seat passenger, 47-year-old female 2nd row left-seat passenger (case subject 3) and 45-year-old female 2nd row right-seat passenger (case subject 2) were all using the belt restraints. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2005 Toyota Tundra pickup) was traveling southbound on its approach to the intersection. V2 drove into the intersection intending to travel straight through. The driver of V1 observed V2 as it approached and attempted to avoid V2 by steering right. Apparently, the driver of V2 attempted to steer left, away from the impending collision. The front of V2 struck the left front of V1, forward of the A-pillar. The impact re-directed V1 to the right (clockwise) as V2 deflected left. The left rear of V1 was struck by the right rear of V2 (side-slap). V1 continued, rolling out of the intersection at the southeast corner. V1 mounted the square-faced curb and its front-center struck the corner of a solid concrete block patio wall. V1's frontal-impact air bags deployed. V1 came to rest against the corner, facing southeast, with its rear axle still on the roadway. This was important because, since the vehicle's rear wheels never climbed up onto the same level as the front wheels, the occupants would have loaded forward while the vehicle's front end was elevated more than normal. V2 came to rest facing east in the eastbound lanes. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The occupants of V1 were transported to a trauma facility due to a varying degree of injuries.