This case involved the belted 54-year-old female driver of a passenger car responding to a frontal offset impact with another passenger car. The subject's frontal-impact air bag deployed during one o'clock principal direction of force collision. The vehicle sustained 'moderate' damage. The subject received serious thoracic injuries. This two-vehicle crash occurred within a large, multi-lane, four-way intersection. There were three lanes for East/west travel with two designated left-turn lanes divided by a raised curb median. Both the east, and west, approaches had a down grade, and were straight. The intersection was controlled by tri-color traffic signals. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the afternoon, week day crash. The Case Vehicle (V1, 2004 Toyota Avalon, 4-door sedan) was traveling westbound, in the number-three lane, on its approach to the intersection. The vehicle's first row lap and shoulder belts were pretensioner equipped and there were first row frontal-impact air bags. The 54-year-old female driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2005 Audi A4, 4-door sedan) was traveling eastbound in the number-three lane on its approach to the intersection with the intention of traveling straight through. V1 entered the intersection in the number-three lane (thru-lane), but determined then to turn left and had begun that maneuver, when it traveled into the path of V2. V2 was eastbound in the number-three lane (far left, thru-lane) when the front of V1 struck the front of V2 in an offset-right frontal impact. The one o'clock principal direction of force impact caused V1 to rotate counterclockwise, while V2 rotated clockwise, and the vehicles struck a second time, right rear to left rear, respectively. V1 came to rest within the intersection facing south east while V2 came to rest nearby facing southeast. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. The case subject (driver V1) was transported to a trauma facility due to serious injuries.