This case involves the belted 23-year-old female driver of a passenger car responding to a left side leading overturn sequence with a non-horizontal principal direction of force without the protection of air bags, after a minor impact with another vehicle. The subject sustained serious injury as a result. This two-vehicle crash occurred in the eastbound lanes of a multi-lane interstate at the merge of an entrance ramp. The east/west trafficway had three lanes for travel in each direction divided by a concrete barrier. For eastbound traffic, adjoining from the south (right), there was a parallel lane used for merging onto the eastbound interstate, or continuing straight and exiting the interstate. The merge 'flow' was regulated by a tri-color traffic signal. There was a warning sign for eastbound traffic approaching the merge. The merge lane was controlled by a gore, made up of solid white lines that gave way to broken lines. Indicating the area to begin merging. The south roadside consisted of a paved shoulder and a slightly raised curb followed by brush covered, level, natural, earth. There was a chain-link fence approximately 10m from the roadside. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the dusk, weekday crash. The Case Vehicle (V1, 2005 Toyota Scion tC, 3-door hatchback) was traveling eastbound in the number-two (center) lane intending to change lanes to the right, into the number-one lane. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row frontal impact air bags. The 23-year-old female driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint based on physical evidence. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2003 Oldsmobile Alero, 4-door sedan) was traveling eastbound on the adjacent merging roadway intending to merge left into the eastbound number-one lane. V2 merged left into the eastbound number-one lane just as V1 changed lanes to the right. The front right of V1 struck the back left of V2 in a minor impact. However, the incident caused the subject to begin a left-right steering maneuver that put V1 into a clockwise yaw as it traveled off of right side of the interstate. V1, leading with its left side, struck down a chain-link fence and began to overturn. V1 came to rest on its right side facing south. V1 was towed due to disabling damage. V2 was driven away. The subject (driver/V1) was transported to a trauma facility due to serious injury(s).