This case involved the belted, front right seat female passenger of a passenger car responding to a head-on impact with a sport utility vehicle. The subject's frontal-impact air bag deployed as the vehicle sustained 'severe' damage in the twelve o'clock principal direction of force collision. This two-vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane north/south roadway traveling through a rural, hilly residential area. There was single lane for travel in each direction divided by painted double yellow lines. The roadway displays continuous curves and grade changes in each direction. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the mid-day, weekday crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2007 Ford Focus, four-door sedan) was traveling northbound negotiating a sweeping right curve with an uphill grade. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts (pretensioner equipped) and first row frontal-impact air bags. There were four occupants in V1. The twenty-seven year old male driver and the thirty-six year old female front right seat passenger (case subject) were using the belt restraints based on the condition found. The one year and nine months old, second row center seat female passenger, was restrained in a child restraint seat. The ten year old male, second row right seat passenger, was also determined to have been using the belt. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2006 Subaru B9 Tribeca, sport utility vehicle) was traveling southbound negotiating a sweeping right curve on a hillcrest. The driver of V2 allowed the vehicle to cross the centerline and travel fully into the northbound lane as it came up and over the hillcrest. Scene evidence would indicate that V2 was steering right in an attempt to regain the southbound lane as the front of V1 struck the front of V2. The impact halted V1's forward motion, and during maximum engagement with V1 rear wheels off of the ground, re-directed its heading south. V1 came to rest facing south along the east roadside. V2 was deflected to the west (right) at impact and came to rest facing west, partially off of the roadway. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to disabling damage. The front right seat passenger of V1 (case subject) was transported to a trauma facility with serious injuries. The driver of V1 complained of pain while the rear seat occupants were not injured.