This case involved the belted female driver of a compact sport utility vehicle responding to a near-side collision with the front of a large truck. The nine o'clock principal direction of force impact caused 'severe' vehicle damage and resulted in serious injury. The subject's side-impact air bags deployed. This two-vehicle crash occurred at a four-way intersection in a rural agricultural area. The straight north/south trafficway had a single lane for travel in each direction separated by a painted double-yellow line. The stop signs controlling the intersection were located at the north and south approach. The curving east/west trafficway had a single travel lane for each direction separated by a painted solid and dashed combination that allowed westbound traffic to pass. Both trafficways were level, as was the entire landscape. There were irrigation canals bordering the roadways. The weather was cloudy but the bituminous roadways dry during the late morning crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2003 Nissan Murano, five-door sport utility vehicle) was traveling northbound on its approach to the intersection with the intention of traveling straight through. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts (pretensioner equipped), first row frontal-impact air bags, first row seat back mounted side-impact air bags and roof rail mounted side-impact air bags. The forty-seven year old female driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint based on the condition found. The opposing vehicle (V2, 1986 Ford L8000, large cab-flat bed) was traveling eastbound, while negotiating the slight left curve, on its approach to the intersection with the intention of traveling straight through. V1 came to a stop at the northbound stop limit. V1 had just began to cross the intersection but stopped. The driver of V2 had observed this and prepared to slow, then resumed his momentum. V1 began to cross the intersection when it was struck on its left side by the front of V2. V1s left side-impact air bags deployed, as did the right. The impact displaced V1 to the right (east) at approximately 80-degrees, relative to its original heading. The vehicles remained in contact for a distance as V2 pushed V1 off the roadway. As V2 decelerated, V1 separated and continued sliding north east (sideways) while rotating counterclockwise. V1 was moving rearward when it dropped (approx. two meters) into a partially filled irrigation canal, striking the concrete bank with its left rear wheel and undercarriage. V1 came to rest, upright, in the canal facing south. V2 had come to rest facing northeast on the north roadside shortly after the vehicles had separated. Both vehicles were towed from the scene, V1 due to disabling damage. The driver of V1 (case subject) was transported to a trauma facility with serious injuries.