This case study involved the belted male driver of an SUV responding to a far-side collision (three o'clock principal direction of force impact) with a passenger car. The case vehicle's right side-impact air bags deployed. The vehicle was 'severely' damaged and the subject sustained serious torso and pelvic injury. This three-vehicle crash occurred on a two-lane, east/west-street traveling through a rural area. There was a single lane for travel in each direction separated by painted, double yellow lines. There were narrow dirt shoulders bordering the trafficway. The weather was clear and the level, bituminous roadway dry during the evening (dark-not lit), weekday crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2005 Nissan Murano, 4-door hatchback SUV) was traveling eastbound. V1's first row lap and shoulder belts were equipped with pretensioners, first row frontal-impact air bags, first row seat back mounted side-impact air bags and left and right roof rail mounted side-impact (curtain) air bags. The twenty-one year old male driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint, based on the condition found. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2005 Dodge Magnum 2-door coupe) was traveling westbound. There were five occupants in V2. The third vehicle involved (V3, 2005 Toyota Corolla, 4-door sedan) was also traveling westbound, some distance behind V2. There was a single occupant in V3. The driver of V1 does not recall the crash, apparently as he was listening to music and smoking, he allowed V1 to travel into the westbound lane and into the path of V2. Case vehicle damage suggests that he attempted to steer back to the right, however, the front left of V2 struck the left front of V1 (a twelve o'clock principal direction of force impact to V1). The impact sheared the left front wheel off of V1. V1's frontal-impact air bags did not deploy. V1 rotated counterclockwise out of the collision and continued eastbound, now leading with its right plane as V2 came to rest facing southwest in the roadway. V3 approached traveling westbound and the front of V3 struck the right plane of V1. The impact caused V1 to rotate clockwise as its left wheels dug into the roadway, tripping the vehicle one quarter-turn to the left. V1 came to rest on its left side along the north shoulder facing east. All three vehicles were towed from the scene due to disabling damage. The case subject (driver/sole occupant V1) was transported to t trauma facility due to severe injuries.