This case involved the belted fifty year old male driver of a sport utility pickup responding to a left side leading, seven quarter-turn overturn collision. The case vehicle damage rating was 'moderate' as a result of the non-horizontal principal direction of force impact(s). This single-vehicle crash occurred on the northbound side of a multi-lane, divided interstate. The straight, level trafficway had five, concrete lanes for northbound travel. The left roadside profile consisted of a paved, bituminous shoulder followed by a concrete median barrier. However, the barrier ended just prior to the actual roadway departure. The paved shoulder then gave way to a level dirt median. The weather was clear and the concrete roadway dry during the morning, daylight crash. The Case Vehicle (2004 Ford Explorer Sport Trac, four-door suv/pu crossover) was traveling northbound in the number-four lane with the intention of continuing straight ahead. The case vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and frontal-impact air bags (non-deployed). The fifty year old male driver (case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint based on the condition found. Morning "rush hour" traffic backed up causing motorists in the number four lane to brake and slow. The driver of the case vehicle, preparing to change lanes to the right, looked over his right shoulder to check traffic and when he looked forward again he was in imminent danger of colliding with the vehicle in front of him. The driver braked and steered to the left, across the number-five lane, and traveled off of the left side of the roadway into the median. The driver steered hard to the right and the vehicle began an ever-increasing clockwise yaw as it continued traveling north, northeast. The left-side wheels encountered too much resistance as the vehicle slid sideways and eventually tripped to the left. The vehicle overturned seven quarter-turns, coming to rest on its right side. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage while the subject was transported to a trauma facility due to serious injuries.