This case involved the belted female driver of a passenger car responding to a frontal impact (off-set right) with an SUV. The case vehicle was subjected to a one o'clock principal direction of force impact resulting in 'moderate' vehicle damage. The subject's frontal-impact air bag deployed during the crash, even so, she sustained serious injury. This two-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of a seven-lane east/west, and a five-lane north/south, trafficway in a suburban area. Both trafficways were straight and level and the intersection was controlled by tri-color traffic signals. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadways dry during the night time (dark-street lights) crash. The Case Vehicle (V1, 2007 Honda Civic, 4-door sedan) was traveling southbound in the number-one (right) lane on its approach to the intersection with the intention of traveling straight through. V1's first row lap and shoulder belts were pretensioner equipped. The vehicle had frontal-impact air bags, first row seat back mounted side-impact air bags, and left and right roof rail mounted first and second row side-impact (curtain) air bags. There were three occupants in V1. The sixty year old female driver (case subject), the twenty-seven year old female front right seat passenger and the sixty year old male second row right seat passenger were all using their belt restraint. The opposing vehicle (V2, 1999 Toyota 4Runner, 4-door SUV) was traveling eastbound in the number-three (through) lane on its approach to the intersection with the intention of traveling straight through. V2 was occupied only by the male driver. Both vehicles entered the intersection simultaneously and the front right of V1 struck the left front of V2, resulting in a 'one o'clock principal direction of force impact' to V1. V1's frontal-impact, and both right side-impact, air bags deployed. V1 was deflected to the left (S/E) as V2 was deflected to the right and there was a second impact (side-slap) where the right rear of V1 struck the left rear of V2. V1 came to rest facing the southeast corner of the intersection. V2 continued its clockwise rotation and overturned, one quarter-turn onto its left side where it came to rest facing southwest. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. Everyone was transported from the scene to trauma facilities, with the case subject's injuries being the most crucial.