This case study involved the belted male driver, and front right seat female passenger, of a passenger car responding to a left plane impact with the front of another passenger car. The vehicle sustained moderate damage during the nine o'clock principal direction of force collision while the driver received fatal injuries and the front right seat passenger, serious injuries. This two-vehicle crash occurred at the intersection of a level, straight, four-lane, divided north/south trafficway and a two-lane road. The north/south trafficway was situated approximately 1.5meters higher than the east/west roadway. The intersection was controlled by stop signs at the east and west approach. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway surfaces dry during the afternoon, weekend crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2005 Toyota Camry, 4-door sedan) was traveling eastbound on its approach to the intersection. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts (pretensioner equipped) and first row frontal-impact air bags. There were two occupants in V1. The eighty-six year old male driver (case subject 1) and the ninety-one year old female front right seat passenger (case subject 2) were using the belt restraint based on the condition found. The opposing vehicle (V2, 1999 Acura Integra, 4-door sedan) was traveling southbound on its approach to the intersection. The driver of V1 (subject 1) approached the intersection and came to a stop on the short uphill grade. V2 was traveling southbound in the number-one lane as it approached the intersection. V1's driver may have false started prior to continuing across the intersection and into the path of V2, where the front of V2 struck the left side of V1, forward of the b-pillar. The nine o'clock principal direction of force impact re-directed V1 to the right (clockwise rotation, approximately 90-degrees) and it free-rolled off of the southeast corner of the intersection. V1 continued across a drainage ditch, through a barbed-wire fence and came to rest facing southwest. V2 came to rest facing southeast in the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. Both occupants of V1 were transported to trauma facilities due to critically serious injuries. Neither of the occupants of V2 were transported for medical treatment.