This case involved a belted, female, 2nd row left side seated passenger of a passenger car responding to a nearside impact with a large pickup. The subject vehicle's left roof rail mounted side impact curtain air bag deployed during the moderately severe crash. This two-vehicle crash occurred at the, angled, four-way intersection of two multi-lane suburban streets traveling through a residential area. The four-lane east/west street had a single lane for travel straight through the intersection with designated left and right turn lanes. The divided, north/south street had two lanes for continued travel and a designated left turn lane divided by a raised curb median. Both trafficways were straight and there was a grade increase for both westbound, and northbound, traffic. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadways dry during the afternoon, weekend crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2003 Volkswagen Jetta, 4-door sedan) was traveling westbound on its approach to the intersection with the intention of turning left. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts, first row frontal impact air bags, first row seat back mounted side impact air bags and left and right roof rail mounted side impact air bags. The 33-year-old female driver, 23-year-old female front right seat passenger and the 51-year-old female 2nd row left side seated passenger (case subject) were all using the belt restraints based on physical evidence. The opposing vehicle (V2, 1990 Chevrolet 3500 pickup) was traveling northbound in the number-one (right) lane on its approach to the intersection with the intention of traveling straight through. V1 came to a stop at the intersection limit line. V1 proceeded into the intersection, making the left turn, when it was struck on the left side (left rear door area) by the front of V2. V1's frontal and left side impact air bags deployed. Being struck rear of the B-pillar, the impact rotated V1 180-degrees counterclockwise where it came to rest facing eastbound in the center of the intersection. V2, meanwhile, continued straight through the intersection and came to rest facing north in its original lane. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The driver and left rear seat passenger (case subject) of V1 were transported to a trauma facility due to potential injury, turning out to be serious for the subject.