This case involved the belted male driver of a passenger car responding to a head-on impact with the front of an SUV. The, 12 o'clock principal direction of force, impact caused the subjects frontal-impact air bag to deploy, resulted in 'severe' vehicle damage and serious injury to the subject. This two-vehicle crash occurred in the southbound lanes of a four-lane, divided, trafficway traveling through a commercial/residential area. There were two lanes for travel in each direction divided by a depressed median. The northbound approach to the crash site had a left curve and downhill grade, the southbound approach was straight with an uphill grade. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry, during the early morning (dark, lit), weekend crash. The Case Vehicle (V1, 2004 Ford Taurus, 4-door sedan) was traveling northbound (downhill) in the number-two (left) lane. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row frontal-impact air bags. The 18-year-old male driver (case subject/sole occupant) was determined belted based on physical evidence. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2000 Mitsubishi Montero, 4-door SUV) was traveling southbound in the number-two (left), uphill. As the subject negotiated the left curve on the downhill grade, he allowed the vehicle to travel off of the northbound roadway to the left, across the depressed median, and into the southbound lanes. As V1 entered the southbound lanes, the driver of V2 observed this and began to brake (no lockup) before the front left of V1 struck the front left of V2. V1's steering hub mounted frontal-impact air bag deployed. V1 and V2 began to rotate counterclockwise as the front of V2 continued into the left plane of V1. V1 came to rest facing west across the southbound number-two lane and the median. V2 came to rest facing southeast across the number-one southbound lane. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to disabling damage. The case subject (driver V1) was transported to a trauma facility due to serious injuries.