This 24 year-old female case occupant was the restrained driver of a 2005 Toyota Camry that was involved in a "moderate" frontal collision. The case occupant was restrained by the available 3-point lap/shoulder belt with shoulder strap position over her mid-clavicle. In addition, the front steering hub mounted airbag did deploy. This single vehicle crash occurred in the westbound lanes of an east/west interstate at the interchange to a southbound interstate (Y-interchange). There were five lanes for westbound travel with the far right lane as a mandatory exit, the number-four lane is for optional exit or continued westbound travel with the remaining lanes continuing westbound. The trafficway was straight on its approach to the point where the two exit lanes diverge from the main roadway, and had an uphill grade. At the point of divergence, the main trafficway curved left while the two exit lanes curved right and the uphill grade increased. The gore between these trafficways consisted of a "V" shaped landscaped, drainage terrain with a couple of large pine trees. The terrain had a downward embankment (20m) that leveled off and a concrete drainage ditch. The weather was cloudy but the bituminous trafficways were dry during the early morning (dark-street lights), weekend crash. The Case Vehicle (2005 Toyota Camry, 4-door sedan) was traveling westbound in the number-four lane on its approach to the interchange intending to exit to the right. The vehicle was equipped with lap and shoulder belts, first row frontal impact air bags and first row seat back mounted side impact air bags. The 24-year-old female driver (Case subject/sole occupant) was using the belt restraint, based on physical evidence. As the vehicle approached the "Y-shaped" diverge, the driver steered right, but not enough to negotiate the curvature and traveled off of the left (south) roadside. The vehicle narrowly missed striking a guardrail as it traveled over the embankment and began to descend the hill on its wheels. Apparently, the vehicle struck down a tree branch with its left A-pillar as it passed by. The vehicle reached the bottom of the embankment where its front plane struck the ground as its front wheels, probably, dropped into the drainage ditch. The vehicle's first row, driver side frontal impact air bag deployed. The vehicle continued forward, bounced up and out of the ditch, and came to rest within close proximity to the impact site, on its wheels facing south. The vehicle was towed due to disabling damage. The case subject (driver/sole occupant) was transported to a trauma facility due to serious injuries.