This case involved the unbelted female driver of a small passenger car responding to a near-side impact (forward of the occupant compartment) with the front plane of another passenger car. The collision (10 o'clock principal direction of force) resulted in moderate damage to the Case Vehicle and serious injury to the subject. This two-vehicle crash occurred at a four-way intersection of a four-lane, divided, north/south interstate and a two-lane east/west junction intended for future trafficway construction. The north/south trafficway had two lanes for travel in each direction divided by a wide, depressed, natural median. The concrete trafficway was straight and level. The east/west intersection approaches consisted of a blocked off dirt roadway to the west and a dirt irrigation roadway to the east. The approaches from east and west were paved bituminous, giving way to dirt. The intersection was controlled by Stop signs at the east and west approaches. The weather was clear and the roadways dry during the afternoon, weekday, crash. The Case Vehicle (V1, 2006 Scion tA, 5-door hatchback) was traveling eastbound on its approach to the intersection intending to travel straight through. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row frontal-impact air bags. There were two occupants in V1. The 26-year-old female driver (case subject) and a 17-year-old male front right seat passenger. The subject/driver was not using the belt restraint (pretensioner equipped, locked retracted) while the front right seat passenger was. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2000 Nissan Altima, 4-door sedan) was traveling southbound in the number-two (left) lane on its approach to the intersection with the intention of traveling straight through. The driver of V1 proceeded into the intersection, after looking to the left (north) and was struck on the left front, forward of the passenger compartment by the front plane of V2. The impact caused V1's frontal-impact air bags to deploy. V1 rotated clockwise and was deflected to the right where it struck V2 a second time with V1's left rear striking V2's right rear. V1 continued its clockwise rotation(south) approximately 90-degrees where it came to rest facing north in the number-two southbound lane. V2 was deflected to the left (south/east) where it ran off of the roadway into the median and came to rest straddling a concrete water drain. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage. All parties of both vehicles (4) were transported to a local medical facility where the case subject was airlifted to a trauma center.