This case involved the belted 66-year-old female driver of a compact car responding to a frontal plane (offset right) impact with the left side of an SUV. The 12 o'clock PDOF deployed the subject's frontal impact air bag, resulted in moderate vehicle damage and moderate injury. This two-vehicle crash occurred at a driveway access, in the midst of a curve, near a three-way intersection of an east/west trafficway. The east/west trafficway had a single lane for travel in each direction and a left turn lane for westbound traffic at the intersection. The intersection was controlled by a stop sign at the northbound approach. The roadway was curved right for westbound traffic and there were uncontrolled private driveways adjoining from the north side of the roadway. Specifically, a driveway adjoined from the north just prior to the intersection. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the afternoon, weekend crash. The case vehicle (V1, 2001 Dodge Neon, 4-door sedan) was traveling westbound. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts and first row frontal impact air bags (advanced). The 66-year-old female driver (case subject/sole occupant) was determined to have been using the belt restraint. The opposing vehicle (V2, 2000 Mitsubishi Montero, 4-door SUV) was traveling southbound on the adjoining driveway, downhill on its approach to the east/west trafficway. As V1 negotiated the right curve V2 approached the trafficway coming downhill. V2 stopped momentarily and then began to turn right, into the same direction as V1. The subject (driver V1) did not have time to react and struck the left front of V2 with V1's front right. V1's driver's frontal impact air bag deployed. The impact deflected V2 to the right, into a clockwise rotation until it began tracking and came to rest off of the north roadside facing west. V1 was deflected to the left where it crossed the trafficway, left the southeast corner of the intersection and came to rest there facing southwest. Both vehicles were towed, presumably due to disabling damage and the case subject was transported to a trauma facility due to moderate injuries.