This case involved a belted, 37-week pregnant driver of a minivan responding to a frontal (corner) impact with the side of a compact car. The 12 o'clock principal direction of force impact caused 'light' vehicle damage but did deploy the subject's frontal-impact air bag. This two-vehicle crash occurred in the northbound lanes of a five-lane, undivided, trafficway traveling through a residential/commercial area. There were two lanes for travel in each direction with a continuous center turn lane. There was grade increase from south to north and the roadway was straight. There were numerous business driveways situated along the east side of the trafficway. The weather was clear and the bituminous roadway dry during the early afternoon weekday crash. The Case Vehicle (V1, 2006 Honda Odyessy 4-door passenger van) was traveling northbound in the number-one lane (right), uphill. V1 was equipped with lap and shoulder belts, first row frontal-impact air bags and first row roof rail mounted, side-impact air bags. The 37-year-old female driver (case subject) was using the belt restraint. There was also a 3-year-old male passenger seated in an unidentified child sfatey seat in the second row left position, apparently properly belted. The opposing vehicle (V2, an unidentified 'small' passenger car) was traveling west out of a business driveway intending to turn left. As V1 neared, V2 attempted to turn left from the business driveway across the northbound number-one lane, placing it in the path of V1. The driver of V1 braked (without lockup), however, the front right of V1 struck the left front of V2. The 12 o'clock principal direction of force impact caused V1's steering hub mounted frontal-impact air bag to deploy. V1 was deflected slightly counterclockwise coming to rest facing northwest in the number-one lane. V2 rotated approximately 30-degrees coming to rest facing northwest. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. The driver of V1 (case subject) was transported to a trauma facility due to observation.