This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 24 year old female front right passenger of a 2011 Hyundai Elantra GLS 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a 2005 GMC Yukon Denali 4-door sport utility (Vehicle 2). The case vehicle was also equipped with (seatback mounted) side air bags for the front outboard seating positions, and curtain air bags for all outboard seating positions. The right front side air bag and right curtain air bag also deployed as a result of the collision. The crash occurred on the eastbound inboard travel lane of a 6-lane divided east/west urban expressway, just east of a hillcrest and within a negative grade. The asphalt travel lanes curved left for eastbound traffic, and were divided by a raised (narrow) curbed median. It was daylight, with slippery conditions as the roads were reported by police to be covered in snow. The posted speed limit at the crash site was 45 mph (72 km/h). There was no traffic control present. Vehicle 1 was eastbound on the inboard travel lane and negotiating a left curve on a downhill slope. Vehicle 2 was westbound on the inboard travel lane of the same road, and negotiating a right curve on an uphill slope. As Vehicle 2 reached the apex of the curve, it broke traction on the snow covered road surface and continued in a southwesterly direction across the median, into the path of the eastbound Hyundai. Upon recognition of the impending harmful event, the driver of Vehicle 1 steered left in avoidance. As Vehicle 2 entered the eastbound lanes, the front right area subsequently impacted the front right area of Vehicle 1. The impact resulted in severe damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, both vehicles rotated clockwise and began their respective post-impact trajectories to final rest. Vehicle 1 came to rest straddling the center median facing southwest. Vehicle 2 came to rest in the eastbound (inboard) travel lane facing northwest. The restrained 24 year old female front right passenger of Vehicle 1 was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-track position. Restraint usage was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the front right passenger initiated a forward (and slightly lateral) trajectory in response to the 1 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, glove compartment door, and deployed passenger frontal air bag. The glove compartment door was noted to be deformed and out of place, indicative of passenger knee engagement. Interaction with the deployed frontal air bag was evidenced by the mascara and brown makeup transfers identified on the lower right quadrant of the air bag face. Following the crash, the restrained 24 year old female driver and restrained 24 year old female front right passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local hospital for treatment. The driver of Vehicle 1 was treated and released. The front right passenger of Vehicle 1 was later transferred to a nearby trauma center and admitted for further treatment of serious injury sustained in the collision. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.