This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 30 year old male driver of a 1999 Honda Civic EX 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an oblique angle collision with a 1997 Nissan Altima 4-door sedan (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was southbound on a rural two lane roadway and negotiating a right curve on approach to a 4-leg intersection. Vehicle 2 was westbound on approach to the same intersection and proceeding straight, across the path of Vehicle 1. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Traffic through the intersection was controlled by stop signs for east/westbound vehicles. As Vehicle 2 entered the intersection, the frontal area impacted the left front side surface of Vehicle 1 resulting in moderate damage (event 1). Vehicle 2 rotated sharply counterclockwise, and came to rest in the southbound travel lane facing south. No secondary ("side slap") impact occurred between the two vehicles during post-impact rotation. At this point, Vehicle 1 was re-directed into the southwest sector of the intersection. Vehicle 1 subsequently departed the west pavement edge and entered a private yard. As Vehicle 1 entered the yard, the frontal area struck a tree cluster which resulted in moderate damage (event 2). Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise off the tree cluster, and came to rest in close proximity to the final point of impact (off the west pavement edge) facing southwest. The restrained 30 year old male driver of the 1999 Honda Civic was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat track adjusted to a full rearward position. Restraint usage was confirmed by extensive loading evidence documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact with Vehicle 2, the driver initiated a lateral and slightly forward trajectory in response to the 9 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint and left side interior surface. An indentation was identified on the armrest along with a scuff mark on the lower window frame. An elongated scratch mark was documented on the left B-pillar, with possible smudge marks surrounding the contact site. Significant intrusions compounded driver interaction with left side components. This intial impact probably deployed Vehicle 1's frontal airbag system. At impact 2, the (out-of-position) driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint and (deflated) frontal airbag. Interaction with the (deflated) membrane was evidenced by the smudge marks documented on the membrane face, partially masked by blood spatter. Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center with serious injuries and admitted for treatment. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.