This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 29 year old female driver of a 2004 Chrysler Sebring 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of a frontal collision with a ditch (event 1). Vehicle 1 was northbound on a two lane rural roadway and negotiating a left curve. It was dark (street not lighted), with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. Vehicle 1 entered the left curve and partially departed the right (east) pavement edge. Driver steering input re-directed the vehicle back across the travel lanes, and again towards the right pavement edge. As Vehicle 1 departed the right (east) pavement edge, the frontal area and undercarriage impacted a ditch culvert (event 1) resulting in moderate damage. At this point, Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise and continued in a northeasterly direction towards a private yard. The right rear side surface subsequently struck a chain-link fence (event 2), which resulted in minor damage. Vehicle 1's counterclockwise rotation continued as the left rear side surface sideswiped a utility pole (event 3), and telephone junction box (event 4). The sideswipe impacts resulted in minor damage. Vehicle 1 came to rest along the east shoulder of the roadway facing west. The restrained 29 year old female driver of the 2004 Chrysler Sebring was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint usage was confirmed by the extensive loading evidence documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact 1, the driver of Vehicle 1 initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, knee bolster, and deployed driver frontal airbag. Scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster. The brake pedal was found deformed forward against the (intruded) toepan, indicative of driver pre-impact braking. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the fabric transfer and smudge mark noted on the face of the membrane. The secondary impacts to the fence, pole, and junction box were minor in nature and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the occupant. Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center with serious injuries and admitted for treatment. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.