This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 44 year old female driver of a 2006 Chevrolet Cobalt 2-door coupe. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of a frontal collision with a large diameter tree (event 2). Vehicle 1 was eastbound on a remote two lane rural roadway and negotiating a right curve. It was dark (street not lighted), with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. The driver allowed Vehicle 1 to depart the left (north) pavement edge in a forward tracking mode. As Vehicle 1 departed the north pavement edge, the left side surface sideswiped a small diameter tree (event 1) resulting in minor damage. Driver steering input re-directed the vehicle back across the roadway and towards the south pavement edge. As Vehicle 1 departed the south pavement edge, the frontal area impacted a large diameter tree (event 2) which resulted in moderate damage. Vehicle 1 subsequently rotated clockwise and came to rest in close proximity to the final point of impact facing south. The unrestrained 44 year old female driver of the 2006 Chevrolet Cobalt was presumed to be seated in a semi-reclined posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-track position. The lack of restraint usage was confirmed by the absence of loading evidence on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. In addition, the front restraints were locked in the stowed position by (retractor) pretensioner deployment. The initial sideswipe impact probably produced little if no kinematic response from the driver. At impact 2, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the knee bolster and deployed driver frontal airbag. Indentations and scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation noted to the aft reinforcement frame. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the smudge marks and makeup transfers documented across the face of the membrane. At this point, the driver loaded through the deployed airbag and deformed the upper portion of the steering wheel rim, evidenced by the 6 cm of upper rim displacement and 3 cm of column compression (shear capsule movement) identified on these components. A pronounced scuff mark was also found on the steering column, as upward column movement measured 4 cm. The unrestrained rear left passenger was reportedly lying across the rear seat asleep (head oriented towards the right). At impact 2, the rear passenger initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the front seatbacks. This trajectory was evidenced by the extensive forward deformation noted to the aft aspect of the front seatbacks. Rear passenger loading of the front seatbacks may have compounded driver interaction with frontal components. Contact evidence documented across the interior headliner (rear to front) was indicative of rear passenger penetration into the front occupant space. Rescue personnel reported that the rear passenger was found within the front right occupant space (on top of the front right passenger) upon arrival at the scene. Following the crash, all three (unrestrained) occupants of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local trauma center. The rear left and front right passengers were treated and released as the driver was admitted for treatment of serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.