This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 31 year old male driver of a 2004 Jeep Grand Cherokee Limited 4x4 sport utility vehicle. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a 2004 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan (Vehicle 2). The case vehicle was also equipped with side curtain airbags for the outboard seating positions which did not deploy in this crash. Vehicle 2 was eastbound on a two lane rural roadway and negotiating a right curve. Vehicle 1 was westbound and proceeding straight. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. Vehicle 2 exited the right curve and crossed the centerline into the path of the westbound Jeep. As Vehicle 2 crossed the centerline, the front right area impacted the front right area of Vehicle 1 resulting in moderate damage. At this point, both vehicles rotated clockwise as Vehicle 2 subsequently departed the north pavement edge and came to rest in a shallow ditch facing southwest. Vehicle #1 came to rest in the eastbound travel lane facing northeast. The restrained 31 year old male driver of the 2004 Jeep Grand Cherokee was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat track adjusted to a mid-to-rear position. Restraint usage was confirmed by the extensive loading evidence documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual belt, knee bolster, and deployed driver frontal airbag. An indentation, scuff mark, and fabric transfer were identified on the left knee bolster, with scratches noted on the steering column cover panel. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the smudge mark documented on the membrane face. The right lower extremity contacted the center console as evidenced by the scuff marks identified on this component. The center console armrest was deformed to the right. The driver subsequently rebounded into the front left seatback (and head restraint), evidenced by the rearward displacement documented on these components. Post-impact clockwise vehicle rotation to final rest suggests a re-directed driver kinematic to the left (occupant follows vehicle rotational direction). Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported via ambulance to a local trauma center with serious injuries and admitted for treatment. The driver of Vehicle 2 was pronounced deceased at the scene. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.