This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 54 year old male front right passenger of a 2005 Ford Taurus SE 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an offset frontal impact with the rear of a 1997 GMC Suburban GMT400 4x4 sport utility (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was eastbound on a six-lane divided interstate highway in dry, daylight conditions. Vehicle 1 was traveling on the inboard travel lane and negotiating a (slight) left curve in the roadway. Vehicle 2 was ahead of Vehicle 1, and reported by police as decelerating (to an intended stop) due to an occupant distraction within the vehicle. Traffic congestion in the adjacent lanes increased, due to (an unrelated) disabled vehicle on the south shoulder. Upon recognition of the impending harmful event, the driver of Vehicle 1 braked and steered left in avoidance. Vehicle 1 remained within its initial travel lane; however, the left side wheels entered the north shoulder and contacted the tactile warning device ("rumble strip"). The front right area of Vehicle 1 impacted the back left area of Vehicle 2, resulting in moderate damage. Pre-impact braking by both vehicles allowed the structure above the level of the bumper (on Vehicle 1) to engage the undercarriage (of Vehicle 2). The underride damage on Vehicle 1 continued longitudinally into the right A-pillar and windshield area (reinforced by the hood surface). At this point, both vehicles rotated clockwise and entered the center (grass) median. Both vehicles came to rest in close proximity to the north shoulder facing west. The restrained 54 year old male front right passenger of the 2005 Ford Taurus was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat track adjusted to a full rearward position. Restraint use was evidenced by the fabric transfers and loading marks documented on the front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the front right passenger initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, lower instrument panel, and deployed front right passenger airbag. An indentation was identified on the glove compartment door, with moderate intrusion of the adjacent toepan noted. Interaction with the deployed front right passenger air bag was evidenced by the smudge mark and blue fabric transfer documented on the face of the membrane. Additional contact evidence was found on the right sunvisor (deformed, out-of-place), and center instrument panel (cluster fractured, pushed in). Following the crash, both occupants of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local trauma center. The front right passenger of Vehicle 1 was admitted for further treatment of serious injuries. The restrained 37 year old male driver's treatment status was unknown. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.