This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 84 year old female driver of a 2004 Honda Odyssey EXL minivan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions (non-deployed). The case vehicle was also equipped with (seat back mounted) side impact air bags for the front outboard seating positions (non-deployed). Vehicle 1 was traveling in a southwesterly direction on a two-lane rural roadway, and approaching a left curve. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. Vehicle 1 entered a left curve and continued in a forward tracking mode across an adjacent "Y" intersection. Vehicle 1 subsequently departed the right (west) pavement edge as the undercarriage impacted a ditch, resulting in minor damage. This initial impact did not alter the vehicle's trajectory as it continued in a southwesterly direction into a wooded area (events 2-6). The frontal area struck five additional roadside objects (i.e. brush, trees); which resulted in overlapping minor damage. Vehicle 1 came to rest against the final point of impact (off the west pavement edge of the road) facing west. The restrained 84 year old female driver of the 2004 Honda Odyssey EXL was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-track position. The police reported that the driver was restrained by the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system, which was confirmed by the absence of any interior contact evidence. It should be noted that an aftermarket foam pad was found tethered to the driver seat cushion. At impact 1, the driver compressed the seat cushion in response to the non-horizontal impact force. Impacts 2-6 were minor in nature, and probably produced little kinematic response from the occupant. Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to (police reported) disabling damage.