This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 66 year old female driver of a 2003 Chevrolet S-10 Blazer 4-door 4x2 sport utility vehicle. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1), was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions (non-deployed). The case vehicle sustained moderate left side damage as a result of an oblique angle impact with a 1997 GMC Sierra C-1500 extended cab 4x4 pickup truck (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was northbound on a 3-lane urban roadway on approach to a 4-leg intersection. Vehicle 2 was eastbound on approach to the same intersection. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. As both vehicles entered the 4-leg intersection, the frontal area of Vehicle 2 impacted the left side surface Vehicle 1 resulting in moderate damage (event #1). Following maximum engagement, Vehicle 1 rotated sharply clockwise as the left rear side surface impacted ("sideslapped") the right door area of Vehicle 2 (event #2). This secondary impact resulted in minor damage to both vehicles. At this point, both vehicles began their respective post-impact trajectories into the northeast sector of the intersection. Vehicle 1 departed the north curbline and came to rest in an adjacent parking lot facing northeast. Vehicle 2 came to rest in the northbound lane facing north. The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and hospitalized for treatment of serious injuries sustained in the crash. The restrained 61 year old female front right passenger of Vehicle 1 sustained police reported "minor" injuries and was not transported to a medical facility (treatment unknown). Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage. It should be noted that Vehicle 2 was equipped with an aftermarket brush guard attached to the front bumper structure, and a step (tube design) attached to the right side structure. These aftermarket components invalidated any reasonable velocity change ("Delta V") calculations for impacts #1 and 2.