This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 22 year old male driver of a 2001 Mitsubishi Eclipse GT convertible. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an oblique angle collision with a 2005 Toyota 4Runner SR5 4x4 sport utility vehicle (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was southbound on a two-lane rural roadway and negotiating a left curve (on a negative grade). Vehicle 2 was northbound and proceeding straight (on a positive grade). It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. Vehicle 1 reached the apex of the curve and began a counterclockwise rotation. Vehicle 1 subsequently crossed the centerline into the northbound lane, across the path of Vehicle 2. As Vehicle 1 entered the northbound travel lane, the right side surface was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2 resulting in moderate damage. At impact, both vehicles were re-directed to the northeast and came to rest in close proximity to the point of impact along the east fogline of the roadway facing northeast. The restrained 22 year old male driver of the 2001 Mitsubishi Eclipse GT convertible was presumed to be seated in a mid-to-rear track position with the seatback slightly reclined. Restraint use was confirmed by the loading evidence documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver initiated a lateral and slightly forward trajectory in response to the 3 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual belt, parking brake, and center console. The parking brake and center console were heavily deformed to the right, with scuff marks and fractures noted along the side panels. The oblique angle of the impact force, in conjunction with the intrusion of interior components, allowed the driver to continue the kinematic contact pattern into the front right occupant space. Rotation of the upper torso may have allowed the driver to come out of the shoulder harness, as the head subsequently engaged interior frontal components. The rear-view mirror was broken off the header mount, as a pronounced fabric abrasion was identified on the right sunvisor. Short hair strands were embedded into the abraded sunvisor fabric which was also singed by venting passenger airbag gases. Interaction with the driver airbag was evidenced by the light smudge marks documented on the upper right quadrant of the membrane face. Additional smudge marks were identified on the left aspect of the deployed front right passenger airbag. The deployed passenger airbag membrane was torn in multiple locations (from intruded components) and found snagged (entangled) in the right sunvisor retainer clip. It should be noted that no rim deformation or column compression was found. Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center with serious injuries and admitted for treatment. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.