This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 63 year old female front right passenger of a 2001 Ford Ranger Supercab 4x2 pickup truck. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which did not deploy as a result of a frontal collision with a 2001 Oldsmobile Aurora 4-door sedan (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was eastbound on a two lane rural roadway on approach to a 4-leg intersection. Vehicle 2 was westbound and attempting to turn left (south) at the intersection, across the path of Vehicle 1. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. As Vehicle 2 crossed the eastbound lane, the front right area was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 1 resulting in moderate damage. At this point, both vehicles began their respective post impact trajectories into the southeast sector of the intersection. Vehicle 1 came to rest facing southeast as Vehicle 2 came to rest facing southwest. The restrained 63 year old female front right passenger of the 2001 Ford Ranger was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat track adjusted to a mid-to-rear position. Restraint usage was confirmed by the loading evidence documented on the front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the front right passenger initiated a forward (and slightly lateral) trajectory in response to the 11 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint and glove compartment door. Scuff and scratch marks were identified on the glove compartment door, along with a small scuff mark on the right instrument panel area. Two distinct spider web fracture patterns were documented on the right mid-windshield area, and possibly attributed to the occupant's upper extremities (hands/lower arms). In addition, the adjacent rear-view mirror was found displaced forward into the windshield. Following the crash, the front right occupant of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injuries. The restrained 64 year old male driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital and released (reportedly uninjured in the crash). Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.