This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 33 year old male driver of a 2005 Dodge Neon 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which did not deploy as a result of multiple (non-horizontal) fixed object impacts. Vehicle 1 was northbound on a two lane rural roadway and entering a left curve on approach to a 3-leg intersection. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. Vehicle 1 entered the left curve and departed the right (east) pavement edge in a forward tracking mode. The vehicle continued in a northerly direction parallel to the roadway and subsequently entered a roadside ditch. The front left area (below the level of the bumper structure) struck a ditch culvert resulting in moderate damage (event 1). This culvert impact initiated a counterclockwise rotation as the vehicle traversed the adjacent intersecting roadway. Vehicle 1 began to travel laterally as the right side rims began digging into the asphalt surface. This tripping mechanism initiated a 4-quarter turn right side rollover ("tripover"), which resulted in moderate top damage. Before the first quarter turn of the rollover sequence was achieved (< 90 degree rotation about the longitudinal axis), the right side surface struck a U-channel sign post (event 2) and brick wall (event 3), resulting in overlapping moderate (non-horizontal) damage. At this point, the first quarter turn of the rollover sequence was achieved (event 4) as the vehicle traveled up and over (climbed) the brick wall. Vehicle 1 came to rest upright facing southwest. It should be noted that the brick wall was structured to support a lighted sign, as the upper portion of the wall fractured upon impact. The police reported that Vehicle 1 came to rest (upright) with the front axle still on top of the remaining (lower) portion of the brick wall. The unrestrained 33 year old male driver of the 2005 Dodge Neon was presumed to be seated out of position leaning to the right, with the seat track adjusted to a full rearward position. This abnormal posture was evidenced by the concentration of contact evidence within the front right passenger space associated to the occupant kinematic response of the initial culvert impact. The lack of restraint usage was confirmed by the extensive contact pattern documented throughout the vehicle interior, relative to the absence of loading evidence on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact with the culvert, the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the right instrument panel area. A pronounced indentation was identified on the passenger airbag module cover along with a scuff mark to the adjacent instrument panel area. Post-impact counterclockwise vehicle rotation re-directed the occupant kinematic towards the right side interior surface. At impact with the brick wall (and first quarter turn of the rollover), the driver loaded the right front door panel, roof/side rail, and sunvisor. Heavy smudges, scratches, and fabric abrasions were documented on these components. As the vehicle rolled through the remaining three quarter turns of this impact sequence, the occupant kinematic continued to the left as the driver struck the left roof side rail and A-pillar. This occupant trajectory was evidenced by the additional scratches and fabric abrasions noted on these components, in conjunction with the gearshift deformation noted to be displaced laterally to the left. Although a partial ejection could not be ruled out (though unlikely), the lack of viable ejection ports large enough to allow for a full ejection did not support the driver's statement to rescue personnel. Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center with serious injuries and admitted for treatment. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.