This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 8-month old infant male rear right passenger of a 2007 Honda Civic EX 4-door sedan. The infant was (improperly) restrained within a convertible child safety seat oriented (incorrectly) in a forward facing position. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal airbag deployed as a result of a right angle collision with a 1992 Chevrolet S-10 Blazer 4x4 4-door sport utility vehicle (Vehicle 2). The case vehicle was also equipped with side impact airbags (for the front outboard seating positions), and curtain airbags (for all outboard seating positions) which did not deploy as a result of the crash. Vehicle 1 was eastbound on a two lane rural roadway and negotiating a right curve on approach to a 4-leg intersection. Vehicle 2 was southbound on approach to the same intersection. Vehicle 3, a 1993 Ford Aerostar XL minivan, was northbound on approach to the same intersection. Movement through the intersection was controlled by stop signs for north/southbound traffic. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 2 entered the intersection, across the path of Vehicle 1. As Vehicle 2 crossed the eastbound lane, the right rear side surface was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 1 resulting in moderate damage (event 1). Upon impact, Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise and came to rest in the east sector of the intersection (along the south fog line) facing northwest. Vehicle 2 also rotated clockwise and traveled into the south sector of the intersection where the rear surface impacted the frontal area of Vehicle 3 (event 2). Vehicle 2's clockwise rotation continued as it rebounded off of Vehicle 3 and departed the east pavement edge of the connecting roadway. Vehicle 2 subsequently entered a roadside ditch and struck a culvert (event 3) where it came to rest facing northeast. Vehicle 3 was pushed backward by the impact and came to rest in the south sector of the intersection facing north. The 8-month old infant male rear right passenger of the 2007 Honda Civic EX was restrained within the convertible child safety seat by the available 5-point integral harness. The police reported that the convertible child safety seat (CSS) was installed in a forward facing position. The CSS was secured to the vehicle seat by the available LATCH flexible harness attachment, which was affixed to the lower anchors located at the rear seat bight. Evidence collected during the field inspection confirmed incorrect orientation of the convertible CSS for the child's reported age/weight, and the flexible LATCH attachment too loose for a proper snug (or rigid) installation. Use of the flexible LATCH attachment was confirmed by the abrasions identified along the CSS forward facing belt routing slots. The tether strap was not utilized to negate forward excursion of the upper CSS. Furthermore, the retainer clip integral to the CSS 5-point harness was probably placed too low on the infant's chest, and may have allowed for excessive forward occupant movement during the kinematic response. It should be noted that the rear right manual lap and shoulder belt was found in pristine condition in the stowed position. At impact, the 8-month old infant rear right passenger initiated a forward (and slightly lateral) trajectory in response to the 11 o'clock impact force. Gross misuse of the convertible CSS resulted in excessive forward movement of both the infant and seat. The CSS flipped forward (i.e. CSS base anchored as upper portion rotates forward) as improper placement of the retainer clip allowed the child's upper torso to come out of the shoulder harness. The child and CSS impacted the rear aspect of the right front seat back and head restraint, evidenced by the fabric abrasions and scuff marks documented on these components. The child (and CSS) subsequently loaded the right rear interior surface. This trajectory was evidenced by the scratch marks identified on the right B-pillar, along with a scuff mark and pronounced indentation identified on the right rear door panel. Following the crash, the rear right child occupant of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center with serious injuries and admitted for treatment. The restrained 25 year old female driver of Vehicle 1 was reported by medical personnel as uninjured in the crash. All three vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.