This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 42 year old female driver of a 2001 Ford Taurus SE. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of a frontal collision with a utility pole (event 4). Vehicle 1 was southbound on a two lane rural roadway, and exiting a left curve onto the straightaway. Vehicle 2, a 1998 Chrysler Cirrus LX 4-door sedan, was facing west and backing out of a private driveway onto the local street, across the path of Vehicle 1. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. As Vehicle 2 entered the southbound lane, the rear area impacted the right rear side surface of Vehicle 1 resulting in moderate damage (event 1). At this point, Vehicle 1 was re-directed towards the southwest as it departed the right (west) pavement edge into a private yard. The right front wheel struck a ditch culvert resulting in minor damage (event 2). Vehicle 1 continued in a southwesterly direction and traversed a private driveway as the front left area subsequently impacted a telephone box (event 3) and utility pole (event 4), resulting in moderate damage. Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise and rebounded (north) to final rest in close proximity to the final point of impact facing southeast. Vehicle 2 came to rest adjacent to the initial point of impact (across the west fog line) facing west. The unrestrained 42 year old female driver of a 2001 Ford Taurus was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-track position. The lack of restraint use was confirmed by the extensive contact evidence identified on frontal components, relative to the absence of loading marks on the driver belt system. The initial impact with Vehicle 2 was minor to moderate in nature and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the driver. However, the secondary impact with the ditch culvert may have placed the driver slightly out of position forward. At impact with the utility pole (event 4), the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the knee bolster and deployed driver frontal airbag. Indentations and scuff marks were documented on the knee bolster with deformation found on the aft reinforcement frame. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the smudge marks identified on the face of the membrane. The driver's lower extremities loaded the floor pedals as evidenced by the displacement noted to these components. At this point, the driver loaded through the deployed driver frontal airbag and deformed the steering wheel rim. Compression and upward movement of the steering column was also documented. A (left) sunvisor retainer clip was fractured and possibly attributed to driver upper extremity contact. Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center with serious injuries and admitted for treatment. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage as Vehicle 2 was driven from the scene.