This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 45 year old female driver of a 2002 Mazda Tribute LX 4x2 sport utility. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions (non-deployed). Vehicle 1 was traveling northeast on a two-lane rural roadway and negotiating a left curve. It was dark (roadway not lighted) with foggy weather conditions as the road surface was wet. As Vehicle 1 reached the apex of the curve, it continued in a forward tracking mode and subsequently departed the right (east) pavement edge. As Vehicle 1 exited the east pavement edge, the front right area struck two mailboxes resulting in minor damage (events 1 & 2). Fragments of the struck mailboxes contacted the hood and windshield, which resulted in minor, non-horizontal, top damage (events 3 & 4). At this point, Vehicle 1 continued northeast through a vacant lot. The frontal area impacted a patch of roadside brush and a small sign, resulting in additional minor damage (events 5 & 6). Vehicle 1 approached an adjacent (connecting) east/west roadway, and encountered the backslope of the south drainage ditch. As Vehicle 1 re-entered the trafficway, the front undercarriage impacted the ground resulting in moderate damage (event 7). Vehicle 1 traversed the east/west roadway and came to rest in a private yard off the north pavement edge facing southeast. The restrained 45 year old female driver of the 2002 Mazda Tribute was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Impacts 1-6 were minor in nature and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the occupant. At impact 7, the driver compressed the seat cushion in response to the non-horizontal undercarriage impact. No significant occupant contacts were identified on vehicle interior components. Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local hospital with serious injuries. The driver was subsequently transferred to a trauma center and admitted for further treatment. Vehicle 1 was reported by police as not towed due to damage, which was driven (removed) from the crash site by an unknown party.