This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 32 year old male driver, unrestrained 25 year old female front right passenger, unrestrained 62 year old male rear left passenger, and unrestrained 60 year old female rear right passenger, of a 2005 Toyota 4Runner SR5 sport utility vehicle. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of a frontal collision with a W-beam guardrail (event 2). The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was southbound on the outboard lane of a multi-lane divided highway and proceeding straight. Vehicle 2, a 2006 Pontiac GTO 2-door coupe, was southbound on the inboard lane adjacent to, and just behind, Vehicle 1. It was dark (road,way not lighted), with rainy weather conditions as the road surface was wet. Both vehicles reached a hillcrest and were approaching an adjacent highway on-ramp. The driver of Vehicle 2 reported to police that the rear end began to slide ("fishtail") on the wet pavement. Vehicle 2 began a clockwise rotation and entered the (southbound) outboard lane, across the path of Vehicle1. As Vehicle 2 entered the outboard lane, the front right area impacted the left front side surface of Vehicle 1 (event 1) resulting in moderate damage. At this point, both vehicles began their respective post-impact trajectories towards the west pavement edge. The initial impact re-directed Vehicle 1 towards the southwest in a clockwise rotation. Vehicle 1 traversed the adjacent highway on-ramp and subsequently departed the west pavement edge. As Vehicle 1 exited the west pavement edge, the front right area impacted a W-beam guardrail (event 2) which resulted in moderate damage. This secondary impact initiated a 5-quarter turn left side rollover (event 3) resulting in moderate top damage. During the rollover sequence, the left side surface struck the guardrail again (event 4) resulting in moderate (non-horizontal) damage. Vehicle 1 came to rest on its left side along the west shoulder facing west. Vehicle 2 also departed the west pavement edge in a clockwise rotation (south of Vehicle 1) and struck the guardrail three times (events 5-7) before coming to rest in the southbound (outboard) lane facing southwest. The unrestrained 32 year old male driver of the 2005 Toyota 4Runner SR5 was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat track adjusted to a mid-to-rear position. The lack of restraint usage was confirmed by the absence of loading evidence on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. In addition, the restraint was found to be restricted in the retracted (stowed) position by lateral intrusions. The initial impact with Vehicle 2 probably produced little if no kinematic response from the driver. At impact with the guardrail (event 2), the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the knee bolster and deployed frontal airbag. A pronounced scuff mark was documented on the left knee bolster. During the subsequent rollover (event 3), the driver initiated a trajectory towards the left in response to the non-horizontal impact force. The head and shoulder struck the sunvisor and adjacent roof area, evidenced by the hair strands and abraded fabric identified on these components. In addition, a localized fracture was noted on the left sunvisor retainer clip. This occupant kinematic contact pattern continued into the guardrail impact (event 4) and remaining quarter turns of the rollover. An indentation and scuff mark were documented on the left front door armrest. The driver reported to police that he was fully ejected (unknown port) during the rollover; however, contact evidence collected during the CIREN vehicle inspection (relative to injuries sustained) indicated that the driver remained in the vehicle throughout the collision sequence. Upon arrival at the scene, rescue personnel reported the driver to be ambulatory at the scene (outside of the vehicle) rendering assistance to the child passenger. The unrestrained 25 year old female front right passenger of the 2005 Toyota 4Runner SR5 was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat track adjusted to a mid-to-rear position. The lack of restraint usage was confirmed by the absence of loading evidence on the front right 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. In addition, the restraint was found to be restricted in the retracted (stowed) position. The initial impact with Vehicle 2 probably produced little if no kinematic response from the occupant. At impact with the guardrail (event 2), the front right passenger initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the deployed front right passenger airbag. Interaction with the deployed passenger airbag was evidenced by the smudges and makeup transfers identified on the face of the membrane. Slight rearward displacement of the front right seat back documented during the vehicle inspection suggested possible passenger rebound. It should also be noted that contact evidence was identified on the rear aspect of the front right seat back, indicative of right rear occupant loading. During the subsequent rollover (event 3), the front right passenger initiated a trajectory towards the left in response to the non-horizontal impact force. Although head contact to the headliner could not be ruled out (masked by interior damage), the passenger reported that she was thrown across the center console and partially into the rear seating area where she came to rest. This occupant kinematic trajectory was confirmed by the fractured armrest and displacement of this component to the left. The unrestrained 62 year old male rear left passenger of the 2005 Toyota 4Runner SR5 was presumed to be seated in an upright posture. The lack of restraint usage was confirmed by the absence of loading evidence on the rear left 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. In addition, no frequent usage indicators were found on the restraint latchplate. The initial impact with Vehicle 2 probably produced little if no kinematic response from the occupant. At impact with the guardrail (event 2), the rear left passenger initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force. No contacts documented during the interior vehicle inspection were associated to this occupant and event. During the subsequent rollover (event 3), the rear left passenger initiated a trajectory towards the left in response to the non-horizontal impact force. The passenger struck the left rear door interior surface and C-pillar. This trajectory was evidenced the indentation identified on the door panel, and extensive fabric transfers documented on the left C-pillar. As the vehicle reached the second quarter turn of the rollover, the rear left passenger's head struck the headliner as evidenced by the abraded/matted fabric noted on this component. The unrestrained 60 year old female rear right passenger of the 2005 Toyota 4Runner SR5 was presumed to be seated in an upright posture. The lack of restraint usage was confirmed by the absence of loading evidence on the rear right restraint system. In addition, no frequent usage indicators were found on the restraint latchplate. The initial impact with Vehicle 2 probably produced little if no kinematic response from the occupant. At impact with the guardrail (event 2), the rear right passenger initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the front right seat back. This trajectory was evidenced by the indentations and deformation identified on this component. A small indentation was also documented on the adjacent (right rear) door panel along with scratches to the right B-pillar. At this point, the passenger probably rebounded into the rear right seat. During the subsequent rollover (event 3), the rear right passenger initiated a trajectory towards the left in response to the non-horizontal impact force. The passenger struck the intruded right roof and side rail area as evidenced by the skin tissue and abraded fabric documented on these components. Following the crash, all five restrained occupants of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local trauma center. The 2 year old female rear center child passenger of Vehicle 1 was restrained within a child safety seat; and reportedly uninjured. The remaining four adult occupants of Vehicle 1 were admitted for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.