This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 59 year old male driver of a 2004 Chevrolet Aveo LS 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which did not deploy as a result of an oblique angle collision with a 1989 Ford F-250 standard cab 4x2 pickup truck (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was facing south exiting a parking lot, and attempting to turn left (east) onto the adjacent two lane rural roadway. Vehicle 2 was westbound and negotiating a left curve. It was dark (street not lighted), with rainy weather conditions as the roads were wet. As Vehicle 1 crossed the westbound lane to turn east, the left side surface was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2 resulting in moderate damage. At this point, Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise and came to rest straddling the south pavement edge of the roadway facing southwest. Vehicle 2 came to rest in the middle of the roadway facing west. The restrained 59 year old male driver of the 2004 Chevrolet Aveo LS 4-door sedan was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat track adjusted to a mid-to-rear position. Restraint usage was confirmed by the loading evidence documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver initiated a lateral (and slightly forward) trajectory in response to the 9 o'clock impact force and loaded the left front door interior surface and B-pillar. Scratches were documented on the left front door armrest, and associated with the driver's left upper extremity. Scuff marks and a small indentation were identified on the lower aspect of the left front door armrest, and associated with the left lower extremity. Additional scratches and scuff marks were noted along the mid-door area (adjacent to the B-pillar), and associated with the driver's left pelvic region. Deep scratches were also documented on the upper left B-pillar, and associated with the left shoulder/chest. Additional contact evidence included lateral displacement of the gearshift to the right, a scuff mark on the shifter post, and adjacent pocketing (right lower extremity) identified on the left knee bolster. This evidence was attributed to possible occupant rebound or spinout contact during post-impact vehicle rotation to final rest. Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center with serious injuries and admitted for treatment. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.