This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 60 year old male driver of a 1999 Kia Sephia LS 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positons (non-deployed). Vehicle 1 sustained moderate left side damage as a result of an oblique angle collision with a 1993 Ford Taurus GL sedan (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 2 was eastbound on approach to an urban 4-leg intersection. Vehicle 1 was northbound on approach to the same intersection, and attempting to turn left (west). Traffic through the intersection was controlled by overhead tri-lights. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. As both vehicles entered the 4-leg intersection, the front left area of Vehicle 2 impacted the left passenger area of Vehicle 1 resulting in moderate damage. At impact, both vehicles rotated counterclockwise and came to rest in the intersection facing northwest. The restrained 60 year old male driver of the 1999 Kia Sephia LS was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat track adjusted to a mid-to-rear position. Restraint usage was confirmed by the loading evidence documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver initiated a lateral and slightly forward trajectory in response to the 10 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint and left side interior surface. Contact to the left B-pillar and door panel area was evidenced by the multitude of scuff and scratch marks identified on these components. The location measured for each contact point identified was indicative of left upper extremity (shoulder) engagement to the mid B-pillar surface, and left lower extremity engagement to the door panel. Extensive deformation was also noted to the driver seatback and cushion from lateral intrusions. This mechanism may have "wedged" the driver between the left B-pillar and (deformed) seatback. Following the crash, both drivers were transported via ambulance to a local trauma center for treatment. The driver of Vehicle 1 was admitted for for further treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.