This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 61-year-old female driver of a 2009 Toyota Corolla XLE 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags and seat back mounted side impact air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The case vehicle was also equipped with side impact curtain airbags for the outboard seating positions. The driver frontal air bag, left front side impact airbag, and left side curtain air bag deployed as a result of an oblique angle collision with a 1998 Dodge Ram 3500 Series Club Cab 4x4 pickup truck (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 2, which was pulling a utility trailer, was westbound in the outboard lane of a multi-lane divided highway and proceeding straight. Vehicle 1 was initially stationary and facing south in the north sector of a crossover junction. It was daylight (police reported it was dark/street not lighted); with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. Vehicle 1 entered the intersection in an attempt to turn left at the crossover (to proceed eastbound); across the path of Vehicle 2. As Vehicle 1 crossed the westbound lanes, the left side surface was impacted by the frontal area of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Impact resulted in moderate damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, Vehicle 1 began to rotate counterclockwise and began its post-impact trajectory to the southwest. Vehicle 1 entered the center (grass) median as the right rear side surface impacted a signpost (event 2). Vehicle 1 came to rest in the southwest sector of the intersection, eastbound (inboard) lane, facing northeast. Vehicle 2 came to rest on the (inboard) westbound lane facing southwest. The restrained 61-year-old female driver of the 2009 Toyota Corolla was presumed to be seated in an upright posture, with the seat adjusted to a mid-track position. Restraint use was evidenced by the loading marks documented on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. In addition, the driver restraint was found to be restricted in the used (out) position by lateral component intrusions and retractor pretensioner deployment. At impact 1, the driver initiated a lateral and slightly forward trajectory in response to the 9 o'clock impact force. The driver loaded the deployed left front side impact airbag, deployed left curtain air bag, and left front door interior panel. Interaction with the deployed side impact air bag and curtain air bag was evidenced by the scuff and smudge marks identified on the inboard surface of each membrane. Possible makeup transfers were also noted on the deployed side curtain airbag. Scuff marks and indentations were documented on the left front door panel (below the level of the armrest), indicative of lower extremity contact. The armrest was broken off, with abraded fabric surrounding the contact site. Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage. Vehicle 2 was driven from the scene (not towed due to damage).