This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 63 year old female driver of a 2006 Chrysler PT Cruiser convertible. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1), was equipped with frontal airbags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), seat back mounted side impact airbags (for the front outboard positions), and a knee bolster airbag (for the driver position). The driver frontal airbag and knee bolster airbag deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a 1997 Plymouth Neon 2-door coupe (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was westbound on a two lane rural roadway and proceeding straight. Vehicle 2 was eastbound and negotiating a right curve. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. Vehicle 2 reached the apex of the curve and crossed the centerline, into the path of Vehicle 1. Upon recognition of the impending harmful event, the driver of Vehicle 1 steered right in avoidance. As Vehicle 2 entered the westbound lane, the front left area impacted the front left area of Vehicle 1 (event 1). Impact resulted in severe damage to Vehicle 1. At this point, Vehicle 1 was re-directed towards the northwest in a counterclockwise rotation and departed the right (north) pavement edge. As Vehicle 1 exited the north pavement edge, the right rear side surface struck a W-beam guardrail (event 2) which resulted in minor damage. Vehicle 1 continued in a northwesterly direction up and over the guardrail, and subsequently impacted the ground (event 3). Vehicle 1 came to rest in an adjacent wooded area (off the north pavement edge) facing northwest. Upon impact, Vehicle 2 rotated counterclockwise, traversed the travel lanes, and came to rest along the south shoulder facing northwest. The restrained 63 year old female driver of the 2006 Chrysler PT Cruiser convertible was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat track adjusted to a mid-to-rear position. Restraint usage was confirmed by the extensive loading evidence documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact with Vehicle 2, the driver of Vehicle 1 initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, deployed knee bolster airbag, and deployed driver frontal airbag. Scuff marks were identified on the deployed knee bolster airbag, as interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the makeup transfers documented on the face of the membrane. The driver loaded through the deployed bolster airbag and contacted the knee bolster, evidenced by the scuff marks and indentations noted on this component. A pronounced scuff mark was documented on the left A-pillar, and attributed to the driver's left upper extremity. It should be noted that significant sheet metal separation was found along the left floorpan and sill area. As a result, a cross beam supporting the driver seat detached from the sill (at the welding point), as reinforcement was lost due to the pattern of structural separation of the buckled floorpan. This separation re-oriented the driver seat to a more upright (and unsecured) position. Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center with serious injuries and admitted for treatment. The driver of Vehicle 2 sustained fatal injures in the crash and was pronounced deceased upon arrival at the local hospital emergency room. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.