This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 42 year old female driver of a 2002 Toyota Corolla LE 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions which deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a 1997 Jeep Grand Cherokee Limited 4x4 sport utility (Vehicle 2). Vehicle 1 was westbound on a rural two lane roadway and negotiating a left curve. Vehicle 2 was eastbound on the same roadway and negotiating a right curve. It was dark (street not lighted), with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. Vehicle 2 reached the apex of the curve and crossed the centerline, into the path of the westbound Toyota. The driver of Vehicle 2 subsequently steered right in an attempt to re-enter the eastbound lane. Upon recognition of the impending harmful event, the driver of Vehicle 1 steered left in avoidance and entered the eastbound lane. As both vehicles entered the eastbound lane, the frontal area of Vehicle 2 impacted the front right area of Vehicle 1 resulting in moderate damage (event 1). Upon impact, Vehicle 1 was re-directed towards the south pavement edge where it came to rest facing northwest. Vehicle 2 rotated clockwise as the initial impact initiated a 3-quarter turn left side rollover (event 2). Vehicle 2 came to rest on its right side across the eastbound lane facing southwest. At this point (with the initial crash envelope probably stabilized), a third vehicle traveling eastbound rounded the curve and approached Vehicles 1 and 2 at rest in the roadway. As Vehicle 3, a 1993 Saturn SC1 2-door coupe, approached the vehicles at rest in the eastbound lane, the front right area impacted the right rear side surface of Vehicle 1 resulting in minor damage (event 3). Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise and was re-directed southeast into a private yard where it came to rest facing north. Vehicle 3 continued in an easterly direction where the frontal area impacted the (front passenger) roof area of Vehicle 2 (event 4). Vehicles 2 and 3 sustained contact to final rest off the south pavement edge. Vehicle 2 came to rest (on its right side) facing northwest as Vehicle 3 came to rest facing southeast. The unrestrained 42 year old female driver of the 2002 Toyota Corolla LE was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat track adjusted to a mid-to-forward position. The lack of restraint usage was confirmed by the extent of contacts across the front occupant space, relative to the absence of loading evidence on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. In addition, the driver restraint was found to be restricted in the retracted (stowed) position. At impact with Vehicle 2, the driver initiated a forward (and slightly lateral) trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the knee bolster and deployed driver frontal airbag. Scuff marks and indentations were documented on the knee bolster cover panel, which was also fractured. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the light smudge marks identified across the face of the membrane. The driver subsequently loaded through the deployed driver frontal airbag and compressed the steering column. Loading was evidenced by the forward deformation documented on both the upper and lower sections of the steering wheel rim, shear capsule movement, and lateral column movement (to the right). The brake pedal was deformed to the right as the accelerator pedal was deformed to the left, indicative of lower extremity interaction. Due to limited information provided on the police report, it was unknown how much time elapsed between crash envelopes (i.e. involvement of Vehicle 3). Therefore, any determinations on event stabilization could not be made. However, this event was included in the event structure for case completeness. It was unknown if the driver of Vehicle 1 altered her posture or was out of position prior to the subsequent impact with Vehicle 3. At impact with Vehicle 3, the driver of Vehicle 1 initiated a lateral and forward trajectory in response to the 2 o'clock impact force and possibly struck the center console. A small fracture was identified on the forward console panel, as the armrest fabric was noted to be abraded. Following the crash, driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center with serious injuries and admitted for treatment. The driver of Vehicle 2 sustained fatal injuries in the crash. Both occupants of Vehicle 3 were also transported to a local trauma facility; however, their treatment status was unknown. All three vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.