This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 55 year old female driver of a 2004 Lexus LS430 sedan. The 2004 Lexus (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags and knee bolster airbags (for the driver and front right passenger positions), side impact airbags (for the front outboard seating positions), and side curtain airbags (for all outboard seating positions). The driver frontal airbag and knee bolster airbag deployed as a result of a frontal collision with a 2002 Chevrolet Cavalier sedan (Vehicle 2). This investigation also included the restrained 75 year old female driver of the 2002 Chevrolet, which was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions (deployed). Vehicle 1 was southbound on a two lane rural roadway and proceeding straight. Vehicle 2 was northbound and negotiating a left curve. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. The police reported that Vehicle 2 partially departed the right (east) pavement edge, onto the gravel shoulder. Driver steering input subsequently re-directed Vehicle 2 into the southbound travel lane, and across the path of Vehicle 1. Vehicle 1 and 2 impacted in a full frontal crash configuration. At impact, Vehicle 2 rotated clockwise and came to rest across the west fogline facing northeast. Vehicle 1 came to rest in close proximity to the point of impact (in the southbound lane) facing southeast. The restrained 55 year old female driver of the 2004 Lexus LS430 (case occupant - Vehicle 1) was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-forward track position. Restraint usage was confirmed by the extensive loading evidence documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver of Vehicle 1 initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, deployed knee bolster airbag, and deployed driver frontal airbag. Pronounced scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster airbag, with associated bag scuffs noted on the adjacent knee bolster and steering column. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the smudge mark identified on the upper left quadrant of the membrane face. It should be noted that no rim deformation or steering column compression was found. The restrained 75 year old female driver of a 2002 Chevrolet Cavalier (case occupant - Vehicle 2) was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. Restraint usage was confirmed by the extensive loading evidence documented on the driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. At impact, the driver of Vehicle 1 initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the manual restraint, knee bolster, and deployed driver frontal airbag. Indentations and scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster, with deformation noted to the aft reinforcement frame. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal airbag was evidenced by the makeup transfers, smudge marks, and fabric transfers documented across the face of the membrane. It should also be noted that a small 5 cm tear was identified on the left lower quadrant of the airbag face, indicative of possible jewelry worn by the driver. At this point, the driver loaded through the deployed frontal airbag and deformed the upper and lower portions of the steering wheel rim. Associated column movement measured 10 cm upward (vertical) and 5 cm left (lateral). Column compression measured 5 cm at the shear capsules. The driver's lower extremities loaded the (intruded) toepan, evidenced by the matted and abraded floor fabric. A small panel fracture was documented on the (mid) left instrument panel area, and possibly attributed to the left forearm/hand. Following the crash, both drivers were transported to a local trauma center with serious injuries and admitted for treatment. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.