This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 72 year old female rear left passenger, and an unrestrained 74 year old female rear right passenger, of a 2003 Toyota Camry LE 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions (non-deployed). Vehicle 1 sustained moderate frontal and left side surface damage as a result of a collision with a W-beam guardrail (event 2). Vehicle 1 was southbound in the outboard lane of a 4-lane divided highway. Vehicle 2, a 2001 Hyundai Santa Fe, was also southbound, and traveling on the inboard lane (just behind Vehicle 1). The north and southbound lanes were divided by a center grass median, bordered by W-beam guardrails. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. Vehicle 2 attempted to change lanes to the right, across the path of Vehicle 1. As Vehicle 2 entered the outboard (southbound) lane, the front right area impacted the left rear area of Vehicle 1 resulting in minor damage (event 1). The initial impact induced a counterclockwise rotation as Vehicle 1 was re-directed towards the center median. The driver attempted to regain control of Vehicle 1 by steering right. Vehicle 1 subsequently departed the left (east) pavement edge as the front left area impacted a W-beam guardrail (event 2). Impact resulted in moderate damage. Engagement with the guardrail continued down the left side surface of Vehicle 1, resulting in additional (simultaneous) moderate damage. At this point, Vehicle 1 traveled back across the southbound travel lanes and onto the west (grass) shoulder, where it came to rest facing southwest. Vehicle 2 fled the scene and continued southbound. The unrestrained 72 year old female rear left passenger of the 2003 Toyota Camry was seated in an abnormal posture, turned to the right facing inward. The rear left passenger was reportedly playing cards with the rear right passenger. The lack of restraint use was evidenced by the extent of contacts across the rear occupant space, relative to the absence of loading marks on the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Impact 1 was minor in nature and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the passenger. At impact 2, the passenger initiated a forward (and slightly lateral) trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the front left seat back. This trajectory was evidenced by the abraded fabric and indentations identified on the aft aspect of the driver seatback. Continuous guardrail engagement down the left side surface allowed for an elongated deceleration as the passenger subsequently contacted the left rear door interior surface. Pronounced scuff marks were documented along the door armrest, which extended forward to the B-pillar. Deformation of the left rear handle bar suggested penetration of the rear right passenger into the rear left occupant space. This trajectory was evidenced by the skin tissue and hair strands found embedded into the contact site, which more closely matched that of the rear right passenger. The rear left passenger stated to medical personnel that she was thrown into the floor at impact, and came to rest in close proximity to the center console. The unrestrained 74 year old female rear right passenger of the 2003 Toyota Camry was seated in an abnormal posture, turned to the left facing inward. The rear right passenger was reportedly playing cards with the rear left passenger. The lack of restraint use was evidenced by the extent of contacts across the rear occupant space, relative to the absence of loading marks on the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Impact 1 was minor in nature and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the passenger. However, contact evidence indicated the passenger may have been leaning slightly forward and bracing against the front right seat back, in anticipation of the impending guardrail impact. At impact 2, the passenger initiated a forward (and slightly lateral) trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force and loaded the front right seat back and center console. This trajectory was evidenced by the abraded fabric and multiple indentations identified on the aft aspect of the front right seatback. The center console was found scratched and deformed to the left. Continuous guardrail engagement down the left side surface allowed for an elongated deceleration, as contact evidence suggested subsequent penetration of the rear right occupant into the rear left occupant space. Hair strands and skin tissue documented on the left rear handle bar (located above the door on the roof side rail) more closely matched that of the rear right passenger. Blood pooling on the rear left seat confirmed the rear right passenger's stated final rest position across the (rear) seat cushion. Following the crash, all four occupants of Vehicle 1 were transported to a local trauma center. The restrained 77 year old male driver of Vehicle 1 was reported by medical personnel as uninjured in the crash (i.e. treated and released). The treatment status of the restrained 58 year old female front right passenger of Vehicle 1 was unknown. The (unrestrained) rear left and rear right passengers of Vehicle 1 were admitted for treatment of serious injuries sustained in the collision. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage. Vehicle 2 was driven from the scene.