This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 50 year old female driver of a 2007 Ford Focus SE 4-door sedan. The case vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal and (seat back mounted) side impact air bags for the driver and front right passenger positions. The driver frontal air bag deployed as a result of a frontal impact with a ditch (event 2). Vehicle 1 was northbound on a two-lane rural roadway and proceeding straight. It was daylight; with no adverse weather conditions as the road was dry. The police reported that the driver allowed the vehicle to partially depart the right (east) pavement edge. Driver steering input re-directed Vehicle 1 back onto the roadway, and across the travel lanes towards the left (west) pavement edge. Vehicle 1 subsequently departed the west pavement edge and entered a ravine. As Vehicle 1 entered the ravine, the frontal area struck a patch of brush resulting in minor damage (event 1). A steep drop-off pitched the front end downward as Vehicle 1 continued into a shallow drainage ditch. The frontal area impacted the ditch resulting in moderate damage (event 2). The frontal area simultaneously struck an adjacent tree, which resulted in overlapping moderate damage (event 3). Vehicle 1 came to rest at the final point of impact (in the ravine) facing northwest. The unrestrained 50 year old female driver of the 2007 Ford Focus was seated in an unknown posture, with the seat track adjusted to a mid-to-rear position. The lack of restraint use was evidenced by the extent of contacts across the front occupant space, relative to the absence of loading marks on the available driver 3-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. Impact 1 was minor in nature and probably produced little if no kinematic response from the driver. However, the driver may have been placed out-of-position as a result of pre-impact travel down into the ravine. Impacts 2 and 3 occurred simultaneously as the driver initiated a forward trajectory in response to the 12 o'clock impact force. The driver loaded the knee bolster and deployed driver frontal air bag. Large indentations and scuff marks were identified on the left knee bolster. Interaction with the deployed driver frontal air bag was evidenced by the scuff marks and fabric transfers documented on the face of the membrane. At this point, the driver loaded through the deployed frontal airbag and deformed the upper portion of the steering wheel rim. This was evidenced by 4 cm of deformation identified along the upper right quadrant of the rim (no column compression was found). The driver continued the kinematic response into the front right occupant space. This trajectory was evidenced by the displaced (center) instrument panel cluster, indentation to the front right passenger air bag module cover, and (two) pronounced spider-web fractures documented along the right mid-windshield area. In addition, large clumps of hair strands were embedded into one of the fracture sites. It should be noted that the front right passenger air bag did not deploy in the crash. Following the crash, the driver of Vehicle 1 was transported to a local trauma center and admitted for treatment of serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.