The case occupant for this case is a 31 year old female driver of a 1997 Lexus LX450 4-door sport utility. She weighed 103 kg (228 lbs) and was 157 cm (5' 1") tall at the time of the crash. The subject vehicle (V1) was southbound on a two lane rural roadway and negotiating a left curve. The driver allowed the vehicle to partially depart the right (west) pavement edge. Driver steering input re-directed the vehicle back across the travel lanes towards the left (east) pavement edge. As Vehicle 1 departed the west pavement edge, the frontal area struck a wire (electric) fence resulting in minor damage. At this point, the front left area impacted an adjacent split tree bole, which resulted in moderate damage. Engagement with the tree continued down the left side surface to the driver's door area. Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest across the northbound travel lane facing east. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to disabling damage. The reconstructed delta-v for the case vehicle was considered to be lower than expected at 12.4 mph (20 km/h) with a PDOF of 0 degrees. Also in the vehicle was a 7 year old female front right passenger who sustained evident injuries as a result of the crash. Both occupants were restrained by the available lap and shoulder belts and both frontal airbags deployed. Upon impact with the tree, the case occupant (driver) moved forward in a direction equal and opposite to the PDOF loading the seatbelt and then steering wheel through the airbag. The driver was killed as a result of the crash with an MAIS of 4 and an ISS of 29. The case occupant suffered from a subdural hemorrhage, a subarachnoid hemorrhage, a left comminuted tibial plateau fracture, a left maxilla fracture, an L4 transverse process fracture, as well as numerous pelvic injuries including: a left comminuted acetabular fracture, a right closed acetabular fracture, a right inferior pubic rami fracture, a right sacral fracture, a pubic symphysis diastasis, and bilateral iliac fractures. There were extensive abdominal contusions due to seatbelt usage. Both of the occupant's knees loaded the knee bolster causing the the acetabular fractures, the pubic rami fracture, the pubic symphysis diastasis, and likely the bilateral iliac fractures. The lumbar spine and sacral fractures were attributed to the occupant loading the seat. The head injuries were attributed to the occupant striking her head against either the A-pillar or steering wheel rim. The roof was removed from the vehicle during occupant extrication and was not with the vehicle at the time of inspection.