The case occupant is a 50 year old female driver, restrained with a manual lap/shoulder belt, who was involved in a moderate frontal collision, followed by a moderate back end impact with a frontal air bag deployment who sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred on a divided interstate freeway, during daylight hours with overcast weather and dry roadway conditions. In the area where the crash occurred, the freeway is comprised of two north and two southbound asphalt travel lanes that are straight and level for southbound vehicles. The northbound lanes curve to the right before they straighten out. Adjacent to the inner travel lanes are narrow paved shoulders, followed by a sloped grassy median. There is a cable barrier located in the median, just east of the southbound travel lanes. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2009 Volkswagen three door hatchback, was traveling southbound in lane 2. Vehicle two (V2), a 2001 Volkswagen four door sedan, was traveling northbound lane one of two. Vehicle three (V3), a 1986 Toyota Camry four door sedan, was traveling south in lane two, behind V1. As V2 was traveling north, a non-contact vehicle began to move into its travel lane. The driver of V2 swerved and began to depart the roadway to the right. The driver of V2 attempted to return to lane one, but overcorrected and lost control of the vehicle. V2 traveled across both northbound lanes, departed the roadway to the left and entered the grass median. The front of V2 impacted the cable barrier. Then V2 entered V1's travel path and the front left of V1 impacted the front of V2, resulting in the deployment of V1's driver frontal air bag and the actuation of the driver's seat belt retractor pretensioner. V1 continued a short distance south and the front of V3 impacted the back of V1, resulting in moderate back end damage. V1 came to final rest in the inside southbound lane, facing south. V2 came to final rest facing northwest on the shoulder. V3 came to final rest facing south in the southbound lane 2. All three vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant in V1 is a 50 year old female driver who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. The driver's seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and her frontal steering column mounted air bag deployed during the crash. She sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center for treatment. No other occupants were in V1.