This moderate severity rollover crash involved four case occupants. The driver, a 36 year old female, sustained serious injuries, and was restrained with a manual lap/shoulder belt and both the side impact seatback mounted and roof curtain airbags deployed in her position. A front right passenger, a 37 year old male, was restrained with the manual lap/shoulder belt and had the seatback in the fully reclined position. Both the side impact seatback mounted and roof rail curtain airbags deployed in his position. He sustained fatal injuries and died on scene. A second row left passenger, a 2 year old male, was in a forward-facing child seat that was installed using latch and the side impact roof rail curtain airbag deployed in his position. He sustained serious injuries. A second row right passenger, a 6 year old male, was seated on a no-back belt positioning booster child seat utilizing the manual lap/shoulder belt and the side impact roof rail curtain air bag deployed in his position. He sustained serious injuries. This moderate severity rollover crash occurred on four lane divided freeway during daylight hours with clear, dry conditions. Vehicle one (V1), a 2008 Mazda 5 station wagon, was eastbound in lane one of the two one way lanes. These lanes were bordered with paved shoulders, and then on the south side a soft gravel shoulder slopes gradually down to a barb wired fence to a shallow ditch that borders a two-way, two lane frontage road. V1 was traveling eastbound in lane one just past an on-ramp shoulder lane. V1 drove off the roadway to the right across the paved shoulder and on to the slightly sloped soft gravel shoulder. The driver of V1 then began to swerve left and the vehicle began to rotate counterclockwise on the soft gravel. V1 returned to the roadway across the south paved shoulder and then driver began to brake and swerve right causing V1 to rotate clockwise in the eastbound lane 1 and partially into lane 2. V1 then began to slide laterally leaving tire and gouge marks on the roadway and began to roll to the left. The top of V1 impacted the roadway surface in lane one. V1 continued to rollover and departed the roadway to the right down the sloped gravel shoulder, over the barb wired fence and on to the frontage road. V1 rolled eight quarter turns before it came to final rest facing west on its tires in the westbound lane of the frontage road. V1 was towed due to damage. V1 had four passengers who are all case occupants. The driver, a 36 year old female, sustained serious injuries, and was restrained with a manual lap/shoulder belt and both the side impact seatback mounted and roof rail curtain airbags deployed in her position. She was transported and hospitalized at a local hospital. A front right passenger, a 37 year old male, was restrained with the manual lap/shoulder belt and had the seatback in the full reclined position. Both the side impact seatback mounted and roof rail curtain airbags deployed in his position. He sustained fatal injuries and died on scene. A second row left passenger, a 2 year old male, was in a forward-facing child seat that was installed using latch and the side impact roof rail curtain airbag deployed in his position. He sustained serious injuries and was transported and hospitalized at a local hospital. A second row right passenger, a 6 year old male, was seated on a no-back belt positioning booster child seat utilizing the manual lap/shoulder belt and the side impact roof rail curtain airbag deployed in his position. He sustained serious injuries and was transported to a local hospital and transferred to the trauma center.