This head-on impact crash involved two case occupants, a 79 year old restrained male driver with frontal air bag deployment with serious injuries, and an 83 year old restrained female front right passenger with deployed frontal air bag who died in the emergency room. The crash occurred during daylight hours at a four legged traffic signal controlled intersection with rainy and wet roadway conditions. The case vehicle one (V1), a 2003 Honda Odyssey minivan, was stopped, facing south in lane two of a three lane, two way, undivided street. V1 was waiting to make a left turn onto an intersecting roadway. Vehicle 2 (V2), a 2000 Freightliner medium conversion FL70 box truck, was traveling north in lane two of five on the same roadway. V1 started from a stop and began to make a left turn. V2 was crossing straight through the intersection and the front of V2 impacted the front right of V1. V2 overrode V1's front bumper and caused severe passenger compartment intrusion. V1 rotated counterclockwise and was pushed north as V2 continued in a northeasternly direction. V1 came to final rest facing west in the northbound travel lanes north of the intersection. V2 traveled over the northeast corner of the intersection and it's front left barely struck a metal light pole, causing only minor damage to the pole. V2 came to final rest on the sidewalk, against the pole, facing northeast. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupants in V1 are a 79 year old male driver in the front left position and the 83 year old female front right passenger. Both occupants were restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belts. Both case occupants' seat belt retractor pretensioners actuated at impact. The driver's steering column mounted frontal air bag and the front right passenger's top instrument panel mounted frontal air bag deployed during the collision. Both case occupants sustained injuries and were transported to the trauma center. The female passenger later died in the emergency room and the driver sustained serious injuries and was hospitalized.