This 50-year-old male (188cm/118kg, 6 '2"/260lbs) was the driver of a 2005 Hyundai Accent two-door hatchback that was involved in a severe frontal impact collision. This case occupant was wearing the manual lap/shoulder belt and the front steering column mounted air bag deployed. On impact the driver moved forward in response to a 12 o'clock direction of force. The seat belt was in use with significant loading transfers on the webbing and D-ring. Both knees contacted and deformed the knee bolster. The steering column had been deformed from contact to the chest and abdomen. This frontal impact caused significant intrusion of the instrument panel as well as the hood being pushed rearward into the windshield. On the interior of the windshield reinforced by the hood intrusion, some cracks and skin transfers were documented from contact from a lower arm as well as the face/head of the case driver.



This patient sustained a severe traumatic brain injury including subarachnoid hemorrhage and evidence of diffuse axonal injury. These injuries resulted from direct impact of the head with the windshield as the exterior hood intruding behind it with clear evidence of scalp contact including blood and hair transfers and corresponding scalp abrasions. This was rated as certain. In addition, the patient sustained severe chest and abdominal injuries. The chest injuries included a right hemothorax with lung laceration, left diaphragm rupture, and severe blunt cardiac injury with ventricular ectopy. The abdominal injuries included small bowel perforation and severe mesenteric laceration and injury to the sigmoid colon. These injuries can all be attributed to impact of the lower chest and abdomen with the steering wheel and steering column. This resulted in a direct blow to the torso with sufficient increase in intra-abdominal pressure to lead to rupture of the left diaphragm. This was rated as certain. Finally, the patient suffered multiple fractures including an open book pelvic fracture, bilateral femur fractures, bilateral tibial plateau fractures, right radial fracture, and left 5th metacarpal fracture. The pelvic fracture is consistent with AP (Anterior-Posterior) compression from the seatbelt with significant loading on the webbing. The femur fractures and tibial fractures are due to impact with the knee bolster with significant intrusion and deformation from contact. These were rated as certain. The right radial fracture is consistent with a direct blow to the back of the right elbow possibly due to impact with the steering wheel. The left hand injury is consistent with impact with the windshield and there is evidence of contact marks to confirm this.