This case occupant is a 20 year old female driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, with a frontal air bag deployment who was involved in a severe frontal crash followed by a minor secondary undercarriage impact. She sustained severe injuries. This crash occurred during the early morning hours, in darkness, in the northbound lanes of a two lane, two way, roadway. At the time of the crash, there were clear weather conditions and dry travel lanes. In the area where the crash occurred, the two asphalt lanes are straight with an uphill grade for northbound vehicles. There are parking lanes on both sides of the street, followed by curbs. On the west side, there is a sidewalk adjacent to the roadway. On the east side, there is a planting strip with small trees, followed by a sidewalk. Vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Mazda 6 four door sedan, was northbound in lane one. Vehicle two (V2), a 2005 Audi A4 four door sedan, was traveling north in lane one, ahead of V1. V1 approached V2 at a higher rate of speed and the front right of V1 impacted the back left of V2, resulting in the actuation of V1's driver's seat belt retractor pretensioner and the deployment the driver's frontal air bag. The force of the impact caused V2 to travel north while crossing over the east parking lane. V2 rotated clockwise as V1 began to underride V2's rear bumper, resulting in an uneven crush pattern to V1. V2 departed the roadway to the right and struck two small trees before coming to final rest off the roadway, facing northeast. After striking V2, V1 rotated clockwise as it traveled across the southbound travel lane, the west parking lane and departed the roadway to the left. V1 traveled across the sidewalk and a private driveway as it continued in a northerly direction. V1 traveled up and over a concrete curb that was lining the driveway, causing V1's undercarriage to scrape the curb, resulting in minor damage. V1 continued north while continuing to rotate clockwise, traveled across the sidewalk once again, and came to final rest in the west parking lane, facing southwest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant in V1 is a 20 year old female driver who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. Her steering column mounted frontal air bag deployed and her seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated. This case occupant sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. No other occupants were in V1.