This frontal crash case involves a 61 year old restrained male with a deployed front air bag who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred during daylight hours in the northbound lanes of a divided state highway. In the area where the crash occurred, there are two northbound travel lanes with a third merge lane and paved shoulders on both sides. Adjacent to the east roadway edge is a grassy area with bushes and trees. At the time of the crash, it was clear outside and the asphalt travel lanes were dry. In the pre-crash area, the highway lanes curve to the left. In the area where the case vehicle departed the roadway, the lanes are straightened out with a slight uphill grade. The case vehicle one (V1), a four door 2002 Infinity QX4 compact utility vehicle, was traveling north in lane one of the two northbound lanes as it approached the curve in the roadway. V1 departed the roadway to the right, continued traveling north through the tall grass, and the front center section of V1 struck a square metal signpost, shearing it from its base. This case occupant's seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated, and the steering column mounted frontal air bag deployed. V1 continued north and the front of the case vehicle impacted a large tree. The impact resulted in severe crush to V1's front right and significant intrusion into the passenger compartment, including V1's hood. V1 rotated slightly clockwise and came to final rest near the tree, facing northeast. V1 was towed due to damage. The case occupant is the 61 year old male driver of V1 in the front left position who was restrained with the manual lap/shoulder belt. This case occupant's seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated, and the steering column mounted frontal air bag deployed. This case occupant sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. The front right passenger of V1 was a 61 year old female who was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt. Her frontal instrument panel mounted and seat back mounted side air bags both deployed on impact. She was fatally injured in the crash and was declared dead on-scene.