The case occupant is a 62 year old female driver, wearing a manual lap/shoulder belt, who was involved in a severe frontal impact. The case occupant's seat belt buckle pretensioner actuated, her frontal impact air bag and left roof side rail curtain bag deployed and she sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred at night and no street lights with wet roadway conditions on a two lane, two way north/south state highway. In the area where the crash occurred, the northbound asphalt travel lanes curve to the right with a downhill grade and the southbound lanes curve to the left with an uphill grade. On both sides of the travel lanes there are paved shoulders, followed by sloped grassy embankments. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Chevrolet Impala four door sedan, was traveling north in the northbound lane and Vehicle 2 (V2), a 1999 Chevrolet Tahoe four door large utility vehicle, was traveling south in the southbound lane. Both vehicles were negotiating the curve when V1 crossed the double yellow center lane lines and entered V2's travel path. V1's front left corner impacted the front left corner of V2, resulting in severe damage to both vehicles, and the actuation of the case occupant's seat belt retractor pretensioner and the deployment of her frontal and side curtain air bags. V1 continued traveling in a northwesterly direction, departed the roadway to the left, traveled down the sloped embankment and V1's right side sideswiped a tree, resulting in minor damage. After striking the tree, V1 continued a short distance and came to final rest in a parking lot, facing northwest. After the initial crash event, V2 rotated counterclockwise, departed the roadway and began to rollover to the right. V2 completed two quarter turns and came to final rest on its roof on the sloped embankment, facing southeast. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant in V1 is a 62 year old female driver who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt with a seat belt retractor pretensioner actuation. Her frontal steering column mounted air bag and both roof side rail mounted side curtains deployed during the crash. This case occupant sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. No other occupants were in V1.