This frontal impact crash case involves a 36 year old male driver with a deployed frontal air bag and no belt use who sustained serious injuries. The crash occurred in a four leg intersection with stop sign controls for north and southbound vehicles. The intersecting roadways are comprised of asphalt and were dry at the time of the crash. Both roadways are two lane, two way, undivided streets that are level and have no curbs. The case vehicle one (V1), a 2007 four door Toyota Tacoma 4-door cab compact pickup modified with adaptive driving equipment, was traveling east in lane one and Vehicle 2 (V2), A 1998 Dodge Ram pickup, was traveling south in lane one of the intersecting street. Both vehicles entered the intersection. The driver of V2 braked and steered left but the front right of V1 impacted the right front of V2. V1 rotated approximately 40 degrees clockwise and V2 rotated approximately 90 degrees counterclockwise and the back left corner of V1 impacted the right side of V2. V1 continued traveling in a southeastern direction and departed the southeast corner of the intersection. V1 traveled down a sloped embankment and the front of V1 struck a fence before coming to final rest facing southeast. After the second impact, V2 continued to rotate counterclockwise and came to final rest near the southeast corner, facing northeast. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant is a 36 year old male driver of V1 who was not restrained with the manual lap/shoulder belt, and the frontal steering column mounted air bag deployed. This case occupant sustained severe injuries and was transported to the trauma center. Additionally there were three other passengers in V1. The front right 38 year old male passenger was restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belt and and the mid-instrument panel mounted frontal air bag deployed. The second row left, 28 year old male, and second row right side, 14 year old male, passengers were restrained with the available manual lap/shoulder belts. These other three passengers had only minor injuries and unknown treatments.