This 65-year-old female (170cm/136kg, 5'7"/300lbs) was the front row right passenger of a 2006 Scion TC two door hatchback that was involved in a severe frontal impact collision with a large tree. This case occupant was wearing a manual lap and shoulder seat belt and the seatbelt pretensioner actuated on impact with loading transfers found on the webbing. The frontal instrument panel mounted air bag deployed. This case occupant had the seatback fully reclined at the time of impact. Being fully reclined the upper body was not in contact with the shoulder belt portion. This case occupant moved forward in response to a 12 o'clock direction of force and the left knee impacted the center instrument panel and the left edge of the glove box door that were both found deformed and scuffed. The right knee contact and deformed the glove box. As the occupant moved forward some loading on the webbing was noted from her upper body as well as a smudge mark on the shoulder belt that may have occurred when the upper body made contact.



This patient suffered head and cervical spine injuries that resulted in death. These included an atlanto-occipital fracture, subarachnoid hemorrhage, a laceration to the medulla and spinal cord with surrounding hematoma. These head, brain and cervical injuries resulted from deceleration shearing forces, which occurred as her head moved rapidly forward after sustaining contact with the shoulder belt into the upper chest. She suffered multiple bilateral rib fractures including ribs 6-10 on the right and 2-8 on the left with deep abrasions across her chest in the pattern of the shoulder belt as she came in contact with the shoulder after beginning in a reclined position. Thus we attribute the chest wall injuries to compression from the seat belt impact. The patient was also found to have multiple mesenteric lacerations and a pelvic fracture involving the sacro-iliac joint. These are attributable to the compression force applied by the lap belt. These mechanisms were rated as certain for the mesenteric injury and possible for the pelvic fracture.