This single vehicle rollover crash occurred at an uncontrolled intersection on a two lane, two way highway. Case vehicle one (V1), a 2006 Chevrolet Suburban four door utility vehicle was westbound pulling a camper trailer. An unknown semi truck was stopped in the westbound lane to make a left turn at an intersection with no traffic controls. V1 traveling at highway speeds swerved to the right and made no contact with the stopped vehicle. V1 then began to rotate counterclockwise on the paved shoulder and partially off the roadway. The trailer being pulled by V1 began to slide laterally and fully departed off the roadway into the ditch and up an embankment. V1 returned to the paved roadway ahead of the stopped vehicle sliding laterally when it then began to roll over to the right in the westbound lane and partially on the paved north shoulder. V1 rolled one complete time or four quarter turns and came to final rest facing southwest partially on the north shoulder and off the edge of the roadway. The trailer had detached from V1 and rolled over three quarter turns into the ditch and up the embankment and came to final rest facing southwest. V1 and the trailer were damaged and both had to be towed. The case vehicle had six occupants with two as case occupants who were the driver and the second row right passenger. The driver was a 36 year old male who was wearing a lap/shoulder belt with no air bag deploying. This case occupant had serious injuries and was transported to a local hospital before being transferred to the trauma center. The second case occupant was a 57 year old female who was not restrained in the second row right seat and received severe injuries and was also transported to a local hospital before being transferred to the trauma center. The other occupants included a 30 year old female who was wearing a lap/shoulder belt in the front right seated position, a 59 year old male who was wearing a lap/shoulder belt in the second row left seat, a 9 month old male who was in a rear facing convertible child seat restrained in the second row middle seat, and finally a 21 year old male seated in the third row middle seat wearing a lap belt. All these remaining occupants were examined on scene with minor injuries except the 9 month old in the child seat who had no injury.