This 91-year-old male (178 cm/104kg, 5 '10"/230lbs) was the driver of a 2004 Chevrolet Aveo four-door sedan that was involved in a moderate frontal collision. This driver was not wearing the manual lap/shoulder belt and the front steering column mounted air bag deployed. On impact the driver moved forward in response to a 12 o'clock direction of force. The air bag had some black smudges on the right half from probable contact from this driver. His left knee contacted and scuffed both the knee bolster and the steering column. The right knee also scuffed the knee bolster. Being unrestrained the occupant continue forward and to right due to the vehicle's immediate clockwise rotation at impact. Another contact scuff mark was located on the center instrument panel from the upper right leg, and the gear shift was found bent to the right confirming some lateral movement. This patient sustained significant chest injuries including right sided rib fractures, a T4-5 vertebral cord contusion, and a liver laceration. In addition he has a right femur fracture. The femur fracture is due to impact of the right knee with the knee bolster with clear evidence of contact at this point. This was rated as certain. As the patient was not restrained with a seat belt, it appears he moved forward initially but then laterally to the right during the clockwise rotation of the vehicle at impact. As the patient was reported to be unconscious prior to the crash, iit was noted that he was slumped forward over the steering column and thus sustained some contact from the airbag deployment to the anterior right side of his torso. Then some lateral movement occurred during the crash as the vehicle rotated which was supported with evidence by the deformity to the gear shift which was bent mainly to the right. As a secondary causation, the right sided rib fractures and the spine injury were possibly due to contact with the front right occupant in the passenger compartment. The liver laceration was also possibly due to this interaction with the other occupant.