This frontal impact crash case involves a 72 year old male driver, wearing the available lap/shoulder belt with deployed frontal impact air bag who sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred during daylight hours in a four legged intersection controlled by traffic signals. The east-west roadway consists of two east and two westbound lanes, with left turn only lanes available at the intersection. The northbound, one-way roadway consists of four northbound lanes, with two outboard left and right turn only lanes, and two center through lanes. Both roadways are comprised of asphalt and in the area where the crash occurred, there is a downhill grade for westbound vehicles and an uphill grade for northbound vehicles. The case vehicle one (V1), a 2002 Ford Taurus four door sedan, was traveling west in lane one and Vehicle 2 (V2), a 2008 Chevrolet Malibu four door sedan, was traveling north in lane three on the intersecting street. Both vehicles entered the intersection and although the driver of V2 braked and swerved to the left, the front of V2 impacted the left front of V1. V1 rotated clockwise, traveled over the northwest curb and the front of V1 impacted a light pole, resulting in the deployment of the driver's frontal air bag and actuation of the driver's seat belt buckle retractor pretensioner. V1 came to final rest on the northwest corner, facing northwest. After the initial impact, V2 rotated slightly counterclockwise and came to final rest near the same corner, facing northwest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant is the 75 year old male driver of V1 who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. During the second crash event, this case occupant's seat belt buckle retractor pretensioner actuated and his steering column mounted frontal air bag deployed. This case occupant sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center. There were no other occupants in the vehicle. The driver and front right passenger in V2 were not injured in the collision.