BACKGROUND: Description: This case was initiated in response to a report of a 35 year old female driver who was injured in a two vehicle crash. Vehicle 1 (case vehicle) was a 2000 Toyota Rav 4. Collision Type: A vehicle versus vehicle (V1 and V2 head-on) TECHNICAL SUMMARY: This two vehicle collision occurred on a four-lane roadway. The roadway, where the crash occurred, consists of one though travel lane southbound and two though travel lanes northbound, as well as a southbound left turn lane. The southbound travel lanes are graded and straight. The northbound travel lanes, prior to impact area, are level and slightly curved. As well the northbound travel lanes and southbound travel lane are separated by a flush-painted median, prior to the impact area. The posted speed limit for Vehicle 1 was 64 kp/h (40 mp/h) and the speed limit for Vehicle 2 was 56 kp/h (35 mp/h). The travel lanes for both directions are free of any defects. It was daylight at the time of the crash. Vehicle 1, a 2000 Toyota Rav 4, was being driven northbound by the 35 year old female driver (case occupant). The driver was restrained by the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder restraint and the vehicle was equipped with a driver's frontal impact air bag (steering wheel mounted), which deployed during the impact with Vehicle 2. Vehicle 2, a 1989 Honda Civic, was being driven southbound by a 44 year old male driver. There were no additional occupants in Vehicle 2. Vehicle 2's exterior was inspected. The collision occurred when the driver of Vehicle 1 reportedly became incapacitated (possible seizure) and lost control of the vehicle. Vehicle 1 went across the center line into the southbound through travel lane and struck Vehicle 2's frontal plane with its frontal plane (head-on configuration). After the impact, Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise to a final rest in the southbound travel lane near the point of impact, facing southwest. Vehicle 2 rotated counterclockwise and Vehicle 2's right side wheels came into contact with the west curb of the north/south roadway. After Vehicle 2 impacted the curb, it came to its final rest position, facing southeast. The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) sustained minor to major injuries. She was transported to a trauma center where she was admitted for treatment and observation. The case occupant was released from the trauma center on the sixth day post crash. The driver of Vehicle 2 sustained incapacitating injuries. He was transported to a trauma center, but his course of treatment, if any, is not known. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed from the collision scene due to the damage sustained in this crash.