Case Focus: The case occupant is a 44 year old female driver of a 2000 Chevrolet Lumina (4-door sedan), which was involved in an off road frontal impact. She is 163 cm (64 in) tall and weighs 54 kg (120 lbs). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This single vehicle collision occurred in the late afternoon hours of a spring weekday. The crash occurred in the wooded median that separates a trafficway. This trafficway consists of two eastbound travel and two westbound lanes. The westbound lanes did not play a part in the crash. The eastbound lanes measure 7.4 meters (24 ft) in total width and, on the south side, are bordered by a paved shoulder. The two travel lanes are separated by a painted, dashed white line. The north side of the eastbound lanes (median) consists of a narrow paved area (rumble gouges) that measures 1.2 meters (4 ft) in width and a grass embankment measuring 7.5 meters (25 ft) in width. The grass embankment has an average negative grade of 15 % before leveling out and increasing positively (10 %) at the wooded tree line. The eastbound roadway is level and no physical viewing restrictions are present. It was daylight at the time of the crash and the weather was clear. The bituminous roadway surface was dry and free of defects. The posted speed limit for the eastbound travel direction is 89 km/h (55 mph). Vehicle 1 (case vehicle), a 2000 Chevrolet Lumina 4-door sedan, was being driven by the 44 year old female driver (case occupant). She was wearing the vehicle's manual 3-point lap and shoulder belt in a correct fashion. No other occupants were present. Vehicle 1 was equipped with both driver's and passenger's frontal air bags. Vehicle 1 was also equipped with a sensing diagnostic module (SDM) or air bag control module with recording capabilities, otherwise known as an event data recorder (EDR). The driver of Vehicle 1 was traveling east in the left lane approaching an intersecting roadway (crossover area). The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling east. Crash: For unknown reasons (possible, but unconfirmed medical condition), the driver of Vehicle 1 drifted off the left side of the roadway and into the median while traveling east. Vehicle 1 descended the grass embankment (ditch at bottom) and entered the wooded tree line. Vehicle 1 subsequently struck a large 52 cm (20 in) diameter tree with its frontal plane (center). As the impact was fairly centered across the frontal plane, little or no rotation is believed to have occurred. Vehicle 1 came to rest at the point of impact. The total Delta V for Vehicle 1 was computed, using the WinSMASH Damage Only Algorithm, as 84.0 kmph (52.0 mph) with a principal direction of force (PDOF) of 0 degrees and a collision deformation classification (CDC) of 12FDEW4. The direct damage started 18 cm (7 in) from the front right corner (cross member) and extended left 59 cm (23 in) across the frontal plane. The field L measured 84 cm (33 in) with the maximum crush of 109 cm (43 in) located between the C3 and C4 positions. As a result of this impact, Vehicle 1's frontal air bags deployed. The tree which Vehicle 1 struck was not damaged. The EDR was not able to record/save a deployment file (suspected power failure). A near deployment file was obtained for the same ignition cycle as the crash, but it is not known if this near deployment file is related to this specific crash. It is speculated that the near deployment file is associated with the center median (ditch), but this cannot be confirmed. Post-Crash: Emergency medical services (EMS) personnel responded to the scene and removed the case occupant from the vehicle. She was noted to have a positive loss of consciousness (+LOC). She was transported, by land to a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred to a trauma center (CIREN) where she was hospitalized with minor to critical injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed due to heavy damage sustained in the crash.