Case Focus: The case occupant is a 50 year old, restrained, female driver of a 2004 Ford Thunderbird (2-seat convertible), which was involved in a three vehicle collision (intersection related). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This three vehicle collision occurred during the late afternoon hours (daylight) of a summer weekday. The crash occurred at the intersection of a divided trafficway and a two lane undivided trafficway. The divided trafficway runs north and south and forms the northern and southern legs of the intersection. The southbound roadway is composed of four travel lanes (two through lanes, one dedicated left turn lane and a dedicated right turn lane as one approaches the intersection from the north). The northbound roadway is also composed of four travel lanes as one approaches the intersection from the south (same configuration as the southbound roadway). A grass median (with no positive barrier) separates the two travel directions. The two lane, intersecting trafficway consists of one westbound lane and one eastbound lane. This two lane roadway forms the eastern and western legs of the intersection. The western leg is composed of the two travel lanes mentioned above plus two additional channelized lanes running to and from the divided trafficway. This western leg intersects the intersection (southbound roadway) at angle less than 90 degrees. The eastern leg of the intersection did not play a part in this crash. Traffic channelizing islands are present at all corners of the intersection and overhead, tri-colored traffic signals control access through the intersection for all travel directions. The intersection as well as the roadway surfaces are bituminous. The southbound roadway has negative 1.2% grade prior to and at the intersection. The intersecting roadway (western leg) has a negative 2.7% grade as it approaches the intersection from the west; however, becomes level at the intersection (bottom of a hill). There were no physical defects present and sight distances were not obscured for any of the involved vehicles. The weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry. All traffic control devices were reportedly functioning properly. The posted speed limit, for both the divided highway and intersecting roadway, is 89 km/h (55 mph). The overall environment is rural. Vehicle 1 (case vehicle), a 2004 Ford Thunderbird 2-door convertible, was being driven by the 50 year old female case occupant. She was restrained by the available 3-point, manual lap and shoulder belt. There were no other occupants in the vehicle. Vehicle 1 was stopped at the intersection (west side) heading east. The driver intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling north. Vehicle 1 is noted to have driver and passenger frontal air bags, retractor type pretensioners and seat back mounted, side impact air bags (head/thorax). Vehicle 1 is also noted to be equipped with a restraint control module (RCM). Vehicle 2, a 1995 Toyota Corolla 4-door sedan, was being driven by an 18 year old female of unknown height and weight. As reported by the police accident report (PAR), this occupant was allegedly wearing the available, manual lap and shoulder belt (unconfirmed). There were no other occupants present. The driver of Vehicle 2 was traveling southbound in the number two travel lane (right through lane), approaching the intersection from the north. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling south. Vehicle 2 is noted to be originally equipped with frontal air bags. Vehicle 3, a 2004 Pontiac Grand Prix 4-door sedan, was being driven by a 38 year old male of unknown height and weight. As reported by the PAR, this occupant was allegedly wearing the available, manual lap and shoulder belt (unconfirmed). There were no other occupants present. The driver of Vehicle 3 was stopped in the left turn lane of the northbound roadway waiting for a signal change. The driver intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling west. Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 entered the intersection at the same time as Vehicle 2. Based upon Vehicle 1's damage (moderate impact), it is believed that Vehicle 2's driver braked; however, no scene evidence could be identified to support this scenario. The frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (driver's door area extending up to the left front axle) in a right-angle type of impact. As expected, Vehicle 1's driver's seat back mounted, side impact air bag deployed. Vehicle 1 was redirected to the southeast (roadway scraped and gouged) where it traversed the leading edge of the south median. At this time, Vehicle 1 is believed to have struck a 9 cm x 9 cm (4 in x 4 in) sign post (replaced) with its right front fender (minor impact). Vehicle 1's frontal plane then struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 3 (minor impact) before coming to rest at the south side of the intersection at the northbound left turn lane. Vehicle 2 was also redirected to the southeast, but is believed to have come to rest in the intersection. Vehicle 3 was not adversely affected by the impact with Vehicle 1 and basically came to rest in its pre-impact position. Post-Crash: Emergency medical services (EMS) personnel responded to the scene and proceeded to remove Vehicle 1's convertible top (up and locked in place at the time of the crash) and the driver's door to facilitate treatment and removal of the case occupant. The case occupant was subsequently transported, by land, to a local trauma center. She was subsequently transferred to another trauma center where she was hospitalized and released on the 4th day. The driver of Vehicle 2 was also reported to have sustained incapacitating injuries. She was transported, by land, to a local hospital. The extent of her injuries and/or treatment, if any, are not known. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed from the scene due to damage. Vehicle 3 was driven from the scene by the driver, who had not been injured.