This case was initiated in response to a report of a 50 year old female driver, of 2002 Chevrolet Monte Carlo 2-door sedan, who was injured in a three vehicle crash. TECHNICAL SUMMARY: This three vehicle collision occurred on a graded section of a two-lane, bituminous roadway that runs generally east and west. The westbound travel lane has a positive grade and is slighlty curved (right to left) as one approaches the crash area (straight section of the road). The eastbound travel direction has a negative grade and is straight. The posted speed limit, for both travel directions, is 56 KPH (35 MPH). It was daylight at the time of the crash and the weather was clear (dry surface conditions). Vehicle 1, a 2002 Chevrolet Monte Carlo 2-door sedan, was being driven westbound by the 50 year old female driver (case occupant). She was not restrained by the available 3-point manual lap and shoulder restraint; however, the vehicle was equipped with a driver's frontal impact air bag (steering wheel mounted), which deployed during the impact with Vehicle 2 (Event Data Recorder present). Vehicle 2, a 2004 Honda Accord 4-door sedan, was being driven eastbound by a 29 year old female driver. There were no additional occupants in Vehicle 2. Vehicle 2 was not inspected. Vehicle 3, a 1993 Buick Regal 4-door sedan, was being driven by a 46 year old male driver. Vehicle 3 was traveling eastbound behind Vehicle 2. There were no additional occupants in Vehicle 3. Vehicle 3 did not impact Vehicle 1. Vehicle 3 was not inspected. For unknown reasons (possible preceding medical condition), the driver of Vehicle 1 lost control as Vehicle 1 approached from the west. Vehicle 1 crossed the center line and entered the eastbound travel lane where its frontal plane struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 (head-on). After this impact, Vehicle 2 rotated counterclockwise and came into contact with Vehicle 3, as the driver of Vehicle 3 was attempting to steer to the right, around the crash between Vehicles 1 and 2. Vehicle 2's right side impacted the left side of Vehicle 3 as it passed. Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise and came to a final rest in the westbound travel lane near the point of impact, facing west. After Vehicle 2 impacted Vehicle 3, Vehicle 2 continued its counterclockwise rotation to its final rest position. Vehicle 2 came to rest on the south shoulder, near the impact with Vehicle 1, facing east. Vehicle 3 appears to have traveled off the south side of the road and into a grass covered area east of its impact area with Vehicle 2. The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) was transported to a trauma center where she was admitted for treatment and observation. The case occupant was released from the trauma center on the 5th day post crash (hospitalized for 4 days). The driver of Vehicle 2 sustained non-incapacitating injuries. She was transported to a local hospital, but her course of treatment, if any, is not known. The driver of Vehicle 3 sustained possible injuries; however, he was not transported to any treatment facility from the crash scene. Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed from the collision scene due to the damage sustained in this crash. Vehicle 3 was driven from the scene.