BACKGROUND:

Description:

This case was initiated in response to a report of a 78 year old female who was injured in a motor vehicle crash and subsequently admitted to a trauma center. She is 168 centimeters (66.0 in) tall and weighs 85 kilograms (187 lbs.). Vehicle 1 was a 2000 Toyota Corolla.

Collision Type:

A vehicle vs. vehicle (head-on configuration)

TECHNICAL SUMMARY:

This two-vehicle collision occurred on a two-lane, undivided roadway. The posted speed limit for Vehicles 1 and 2 was 40 KPH (25 MPH). This east/west roadway is graded and curved for westbound traffic; however, it was free from any defects.

Vehicle 1, a 2000 Toyota Corolla, was being driven westbound by the 78 year old female driver (case occupant). The driver was restrained by the available lap and shoulder restraint and a frontal air bag which deployed during the impact with Vehicle 2. There was a second occupant in the case vehicle. This 84 year old male occupant was in the left rear seating position. He was restrained by the available manual, 3-point, lap and shoulder restraint; however, he was lying across the rear seat with his head toward the center seat position.

Vehicle 2, a 2002 Chevrolet Malibu, was being driven eastbound by a 55 year old female driver. There were no other occupants in Vehicle 2.

The collision between Vehicles 1 and 2 occurred when the driver of Vehicle 1 became distracted by the left rear occupant and subsequently lost control of the vehicle. Vehicle 1 crossed over into the eastbound travel lane as Vehicle 2 was traveling eastbound. Vehicle 1 struck Vehicle 2's front end with its frontal plane (head-on configuration) in the eastbound travel lane.

As a result of the the impact with Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1 rebounded slightly rearward and rotated counterclockwise to its final rest position, facing southwest. Vehicle 2's final rest position was in the eastbound travel lane at the point of impact with the vehicle facing east.

The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) sustained minor to major injuries. The case occupant was transported to a trauma center where she was admitted for treatment and observation. The case occupant was released from the trauma center 15 days post crash.

Vehicles 1 and 2 were towed from the collision scene due to the damage sustained in this collision.