Case Focus: The case occupant is a 17 year old, restrained, male driver of a 2002 Ford Ranger compact pick-up truck (4x2 regular cab), which was involved in a single vehicle collision (object off road). Pre-Crash: This single vehicle collision occurred during the mid-afternoon hours (daylight) of a fall weekday. The crash occurred on a curved, two lane roadway. This bituminous roadway runs generally north and south and is comprised of a series of multiple curved sections that run the entire length of the roadway. The roadway surface was dry and free of defects, but organic debris (tree leaves and branches) was present at the roadway edges. There are no shoulders present. The roadway has a grade of 1.3 % at the crash area (positive for the southbound travel direction) and curves from right to left. A small embankment (grade: +40 %), running parallel to the roadway, is present on the west side. The weather was clear, but due to the curvature of the roadway, sight distances were limited. The posted speed limit is 48 kmph (30 mph). The overall physical environment is rural and the roadsides are heavily wooded with large and small trees. Vehicle 1 (case vehicle), a 2002 Ford Ranger compact pick-up truck (4x2 regular cab), was being driven by the 17 year old male case occupant. He was restrained by the available 3-point, manual lap and shoulder belt. There were no other occupants present. Vehicle 1 was traveling southbound on the two lane roadway. The driver of Vehicle 1 was negotiating a series of curves and intended to continue traveling south. He had just come from his school and was heading home at the time of the crash. Vehicle 1 is noted to have both driver and passenger frontal impact air bags and buckle-type pretensioners. Vehicle 1 is also equipped with a restraint control module (RCM). Crash: As the driver of Vehicle 1 negotiated the right to left handed curve, an unknown vehicle, traveling northbound, was alleged to have encroached into the southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 swerved to the right in order to avoid the unknown vehicle and departed the roadside to the right. The right rear side panel (bed area) sideswiped a tree of unknown size. The driver of Vehicle 1 lost control while trying to regain his initial travel lane. He likely over steered left and then compensated by steering right again. The vehicle departed the roadway to the right for a second time, climbed the small embankment and struck a 90 cm (35 in) tree with its frontal plane. No evidence of pre-impact braking was found. Vehicle 1 came to rest at or near the struck tree. Event 1 (sideswipe) was very minor and did not adversely affect the outcome for Vehicle 1 and its occupant. As expected, the frontal impact air bags for Vehicle 1 deployed during the impact with the tree (Event 2). Post-Crash: The driver of Vehicle 1 exited the vehicle under his own power, but due to his injuries, was not able to support himself and fell to the ground. Emergency medical services (EMS) personnel responded to the scene and subsequently prepared the case occupant for transport. He was C-collared and back boarded prior to being transported, by air, to a local trauma center. He was hospitalized with minor to serious injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.