BACKGROUND:

Description:

This case was initiated in response to a report of a 20 year old female driver injured in a vehicle crash, who was admitted to a trauma center. Vehicle 1 was a 2002 Chevrolet Cavalier.

Collision Type:

A car vs. van (angle configuration); and a car vs. car (side slap configuration)

TECHNICAL SUMMARY:

This three-vehicle collision occurred in an intersection of two roadways. The posted speed limit for Vehicles 1 and 3 was 40 KPH (25 MPH), and 81 KPH (50 MPH) for Vehicle 2. Vehicles 1 and 3 were traveling northbound on a three-lane, divided roadway just prior to entering the intersection. Vehicle 2 was traveling westbound on a six-lane, divided roadway just prior to entering the intersection. The roadway for both travel directions was level and free of defects.

Vehicle 1, a 2002 Chevrolet Cavalier, was being driven northbound by a 20 year old female driver (case occupant). The driver was restrained by the available lap and shoulder restraint, and a frontal air bag was available and deployed during the impact with Vehicle 2. The driver of Vehicle 1 was attempting to travel through the intersection at the time of the crash.

Vehicle 2, 2002 Toyota Sienna mini van, was being driven westbound by a 40 year old female driver. The driver of Vehicle 2 was attempting to travel through the intersection at the time of the crash. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reportedly traveling through the intersection on a red traffic signal.

Vehicle 3, 1994 Toyota Corolla, was being driven northbound by a 51 year old female driver. The driver of Vehicle 3 was traveling through the intersection next to Vehicle 1 at the time of the crash. After the impact between Vehicles 1 and 2, Vehicle 1 side slapped Vehicle 3.

The event between the Vehicles 1 and 2 occurred when the driver of Vehicle 2 attempted to travel through the intersection at the same time as Vehicle 1 was traveling through the intersection on a green traffic signal. Vehicle 2 struck Vehicle 1's right side with its frontal plane (angle crash). Vehicle 1 subsequently side slapped Vehicle 3.

The estimated total Delta V for Vehicle 1 for the impact with Vehicle 2 was computed, using the missing vehicle algorithm of WinSMASH, as 54 kilometers per hour (34 MPH). Vehicle 1 was assigned a Collision Deformation Classification (CDC) of 02RYAW4 and a Principal Direction of Force (PDOF) of 070 degrees. The maximum crush depth was 68.0 centimeters (26.8 in.) located 33 cm (13.0 in) forward of the C2 measured position.

The estimated total Delta V for Vehicle 2 for this event with Vehicle 1 was computed, using the missing vehicle algorithm of WinSMASH, as 39 kilometers per hour (24MPH). Vehicle 2 was not inspected.

After the multiple impact crash, the final rest positions of Vehicles 1, 2 and 3 were located in the northwest quadrant of the intersection. All vehicles were facing south (clockwise rotation to rest).

The driver of Vehicle 1 (case occupant) sustained minor to major injuries. The case occupant was transported to a trauma center where she was admitted for treatment and observation.

Vehicles 1, 2 and 3 were towed from the crash scene due to the damage sustained in this crash.