Case Focus: The case occupants are an unrestrained 28 year old male driver and a restrained 22 year old female front right passenger of a 2005 Pontiac G6 (4-door sedan), which was involved in a multi vehicle collision (frontal impact for this vehicle). Collision Sequence Pre-Crash: This multi vehicle collision occurred during the late evening hours of a fall weekend. The crash occurred on a straight, two lane roadway. This bituminous roadway runs generally north and south and has a positive 2.4% grade for the southbound travel direction. The lanes are separated by a surface painted, single, dashed yellow line. The roadway is bordered on either side by paved shoulders. The road surfaces were dry, but road defects were present (surface fractures). The weather was clear and it was dark (no street lights present) at the time of the crash. The posted speed limit for both travel directions is 89 kmph (55 mph). The overall physical environment is rural. Vehicle 1 (case vehicle), a 2005 Pontiac G6, 4-door sedan, was being driven by the unrestrained 28 year old male (case occupant 1). The 22 year old, front right, female passenger (case occupant 2) was restrained by an available 3-point, manual lap and shoulder belt. Reportedly, the left rear seating position was occupied by a 32 year old male and the right rear seating position was occupied by a 28 year old female. Neither rear occupant was restrained. Vehicle 1 was traveling southbound at unknown distance behind Vehicle 3. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 1 is noted to have both driver and passenger frontal impact air bags (dual stage) and retractor-type pretensioners. Vehicle 1 is also equipped with a sensing diagnostic module (SDM) which, at the time of inspection, was not currently supported and was not accessed. Vehicle 2, a 1998 Mitsubishi Eclipse GS, 2-door convertible, was being driven by a 21 year old female. There were no other occupants present. Vehicle 2 was traveling northbound prior to the crash and the driver intended to continue traveling northbound. Vehicle 3, a 1999 Honda Odyssey minivan, was being driven by a 35 year old female. Occupying the left rear seating position was a young female child of unknown age. Occupying the right rear seating position was a 6 year old female. Both of these children were reported to be utilizing child safety seats (unknown makes and models) at the time of the crash. Vehicle 3 was traveling southbound and just ahead of Vehicle 1. The driver of Vehicle 3 intended to continue traveling southbound. Crash: For an unknown reason, Vehicle 2 crossed the center lane divider and entered the southbound travel lane heading north. The frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left front corner of Vehicle 3 (corner to corner engagement with damage extending down the side of both vehicles and involving the left front axles / event 1). After this impact, the driver of Vehicle 3 lost control, departed the roadway to the right, and traveled for some distance before coming to rest in a field quite a distance away from the roadway. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 2 rotated out of the engagement, counterclockwise, and continued to travel north while in the southbound travel lane (right side leading). Vehicle 2 was subsequently struck on its right side plane by the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 (T-type impact / event 2). As a result, Vehicle 2 was pushed southbound a short distance and back into the northbound travel lane where it came to rest, facing a northwesterly direction. Vehicle 1 departed the roadway to the right and came to rest on the right shoulder (west side) a short distance south of its impact location, facing south. As a result of this event, Vehicle 1's frontal impact air bags deployed and the retractor-type pretensioners actuated. Post-Crash: Emergency medical services (EMS) personnel responded to the scene and subsequently prepared the occupants of Vehicle 1 for transport. EMS removed all four occupants of Vehicle 1 due to perceived serious injuries. The driver (case occupant 1), as reported by EMS, was pinned / entrapped by the steering wheel/column and his deformed seat back. All four occupants of Vehicle 1 were transported, by air, to a local trauma center with incapacitating injuries. The 28 year old male driver (case occupant 1) was hospitalized for 5 days. The 22 year old front right female passenger (case occupant 2) was hospitalized for 2 days. The 32 year old left rear male passenger stayed overnight (due to injuries and for observation) and was released the next day. The 28 year old right rear female passenger was hospitalized for 4 days. The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 2 was transported, by air, to a local trauma center with incapacitating injuries. The occupants of Vehicle 3 were also transported, by land, to a local hospital with reportedly non-incapacitating injuries. The extent of their injuries and/or treatments, if any, is not known. Vehicle 1, 2 and 3 were all towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.