Case Focus: The case occupant is a 44 year old female driver of a 2000 Plymouth Breeze (4-door sedan), which was involved in a two vehicle frontal collision (angle impact). Pre-Crash: This two vehicle collision occurred during the late afternoon hours (dusk) of a winter weekday. The crash occurred at the intersection of two roadways ("T" type intersection). The east/west roadway forms the eastern and western legs of the intersection. The intersecting roadway forms the northern leg of this three leg "T" intersection and runs generally north. Both roadways consist of two straight, undivided, travel lanes. There are no shoulders present. The intersection is uncontrolled for the east/west travel directions. The vehicles entering the intersection from the north are controlled by a stop sign. Each roadway measures just under 7 meters (23 ft) in total width and the travel lanes are separated by painted center lines. The roadways and the intersection are relatively level, but sags are present. At the time of the crash, the bituminous road surfaces were dry and free of defects. The weather was clear and no viewing restrictions were present. The posted speed limit for the east/west roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph). Vehicle 1 (case vehicle), a 2000 Plymouth Breeze (4-door sedan), was being driven by the 44 year old female case occupant. There were no other occupants in the vehicle. Vehicle 1 was traveling east, approaching the intersection. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling north. Vehicle 2, a 1990 Mitsubishi Eclipse (3-door hatchback), was being driven by a 19 year old female. A 23 year old male occupied the front right seating position. Two 16 year old males occupied the left and right rear seating positions respectively. Vehicle 2 was traveling west, approaching the intersection from the east. The driver reportedly intended to pass through the intersection and continue traveling west. Crash: Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time. Vehicle 2 intending to pass through and Vehicle 1 attempting to turn left. Vehicle 1's frontal plane was struck by the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 in an obtuse angled impact. Vehicle 1 was pushed back and rotated counter-clockwise approximately 120 degrees before coming to rest. Vehicle 2 rotated slightly counter-clockwise before coming to rest next to Vehicle1, facing southwest. Subsequent to the impact, Vehicle 1 caught fire, destroying all of the passenger compartment interior. The source of this fire, based upon inspection, appeared to have originated near the cowl/fire wall area (appears to be the area of highest heat damage). The specific source of the fire could not accurately be determined by this researcher. However, as a result of this fire, the driver of Vehicle 1 was pulled from the vehicle by other parties at the scene. Due to the damage to the passenger compartment by the fire, it could not be determined, based upon the vehicle inspection itself, if the seat belt was used and/or if the frontal air bags had deployed for Vehicle 1. Vehicle 2 was not available for inspection. The extent of Vehicle 2's damage is unknown. Post-Crash: The case occupant was pulled from her vehicle after smoke was noticed coming from under the hood. Emergency medical services (EMS) personnel responded to the scene and subsequently transported the case occupant to a local trauma center where she was hospitalized for 9 days with moderate injuries. The driver and passengers of Vehicle 2 were all transported to a local hospital. The extent of their injuries and/or treatment, if any, are unknown. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. Occupant Kinematics: The 44 year old female driver (case occupant) was seated in a manually adjusted, bucket seat which was found, at inspection, in the rear most track position. The adjustable seat back was slightly reclined. No seat or seat back deformations appeared to be present. Due to damage by the fire, no determination of occupant belt use or air bag deployment was made. Also, any occupant contact present was also destroyed or masked by the fire damage. The structural interior of the vehicle appeared to be intact and no intrusions were evident or expected given the moderate frontal damage. At impact, the case occupant moved forward and slightly to the right. Given her size, she likely loaded the seat belt webbing, if worn. If the frontal air bag deployed, it is likely she contacted the air bag, but it is not known if she loaded the column/rim (no reported injuries to the thoracic region). Her lower extremities continued forward striking the knee bolster (inferred). Her upper extremities, specifically the left hand/arm are believed to have been displaced from the rim by the air bag, but a contact source was not located (unknown hand position and fire damage). Injury Mechanisms: The case occupant's injuries include, but may not be limited to: a left ulna styloid fracture (direct contact / unknown source), a left 5th metacarpal fracture (direct contact / unknown source) and a right acetabulum fracture (indirect contact to the knee bolster / inferred). She was noted to have had a positive loss of consciousness (+LOC) and a mild concussion. The maximum Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS) was AIS 2.