This case occupant is a 90 year old male front right passenger, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt, who was involved in a frontal crash with additional impacts, including an interrupted rollover event. His frontal air bag deployed during the crash and he sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred during daylight hours, under clear weather and dry roadway conditions. Vehicle one (V1), a 2007 Chevrolet Impala four door sedan, was southbound in lane one of a four lane, divided interstate freeway. A second vehicle, Vehicle two (V2), a 1998 Infiniti Q45 compact utility vehicle, was traveling south in lane three, slightly ahead of V1. In the area where the crash occurred, the concrete travel lanes are straight with a level grade for southbound vehicles. On the west side of the travel lanes is a wide paved shoulder, bordered by a guardrail. On the east side of the freeway lanes there is a narrow paved strip of pavement, followed by a jersey barrier. As V1 traveled south, the driver experienced a medical problem and lost control of the vehicle. V1 departed its lane to the left, traveled across lanes two and three and V1's front right impacted V2's back left. V2 spun approximately 270 degrees clockwise and began to rollover to the right. V2 completed three quarter turns and slid to a stop, coming to final rest facing southeast across lanes one and two. After the initial impact, V1 traveled in a southwestern direction towards the west shoulder and then the front of V1 impacted the guardrail, resulting in the actuation of V1's front row seat belt retractor pretensioners and the deployment of both frontal air bags. V1 rotated clockwise and began to rollover to the left. During the rollover event, V1 impacted the guardrail with its left side and top. V1 came to final rest on its wheels. Both vehicles were towed from the scene. The case occupant is the front right passenger in V1, a 90 year old male, who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. His seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and his top instrument panel mounted air bag deployed during the crash. This occupant sustained serious injuries and was transported to the trauma center where he was hospitalized for seven days. The driver of V1, a 25 year old male, was wearing his manual lap/shoulder belt with a seat belt retractor pretensioner actuation and a steering column mounted air bag deployment. He sustained minor injuries and his treatment status is unknown. There were four occupants in V2. The driver and front right passenger sustained minor injuries and the second row occupants were reportedly not injured.