This frontal impact crash case involves a 64 year old male driver, wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt with a deployed frontal air bag who sustained serious injuries. This crash occurred during daylight hours in a four legged intersection, under clear skies and dry roadway conditions. The east-west roadway consists of one east and one westbound lane, with posted stop signs controlling the intersection. The north-south roadway consists of one north and one southbound lane, with no traffic controls present. Both roadways are comprised of asphalt and in the area where the crash occurred, there is a slight downhill grade for southbound vehicles and a level grade for eastbound vehicles. The case vehicle one (V1), a 2011 GMC Sierra Denali K2500 four door heavy duty large pickup, was traveling south in lane one and Vehicle 2 (V2), a 2000 Dodge Ram Quad Cab large pickup, was traveling east in lane one on the intersecting street. Both vehicles entered the intersection. The driver of V1 braked, but the front of V2 impacted the right side of V1's pickup bed. V1 then traveled in a southeasterly direction and departed the roadway to the left. V1 went down into a deep ditch adjacent to the roadway and the front of V1 impacted the ditch. V1 came to final rest in the ditch, facing southeast. After the initial impact, V2 rotated clockwise and came to final rest off the roadway on the southeast corner of the intersection, facing southwest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage. The case occupant is the 64 year old male driver of V1 who was wearing the available manual lap/shoulder belt. During the crash, this case occupant's seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and his steering column mounted frontal air bag deployed. He sustained serious injuries and was transported to a local hospital prior to being transferred to the trauma center. There was a 16 year old female front right passenger in V1. Her seat belt retractor pretensioner actuated and her top instrument panel mounted frontal air bag deployed during the crash. She was reported to be "possibly injured" but her treatment status is unknown.